Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
}                          Cg  1~~IG6o -C(E
Report No. 6823-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(SMI III)
November 10, 1987
TIdustry and Energy Division
Country Department 1
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank anthorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate. For SMI I a rate of US$1 = Rs 17.5
has taen used and for SMI II a rate of US$1 = Rs 20.0 was used. For the
proposed SMI III the following rates prevailing as of June 30, 1987 are used:
US$1            =  Rs 28.5
Rs 1              US$0.035
Rs 1 million  =  US$35,000
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka             January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks              =     January ' to December 31
DFCC                                April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank           January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Principal Acronyms
ADB        -         Asian Development Bank
AWPR       -         Average Weighted Prime Rate
BOC        -         Bank of Ceylon
BTT        -         Business Turnover Tax
BMR        -         Balancing, Modernizing and Rehabilitation
CB         -         Commercial Banks
CBOC                 Commercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL       -         Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CDIC       -         Capital Development and Investment Corporation
CDS        -         Committee of Development Secretaries
DFCC       -         i olopment Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DRC        -         Domestic Resource Cost
DSI        -         Department of Small Industries
DTI        -         Department of Textile Industries
EDB        -         Export Development Board
EPR        -         Effective Protection Rates
ERR        -         Economic Rate of Return
FCB        -         Foreign Commercial Banks
FIAC       -         Foreign Investiment Advisory Committee
FTZ        -         Free Trade Zone
GCEC       -         Greater Colombo Economic Commission
GITI       -         Garment Industry Training Institute
COSL       -         Government of Sri Lanka
HNB        -         Hatton National Bank
IDB        -         Industrial Development Board
IPS        -         Iriustrial Policy Statement
ISC        -         Industrial Sector Credit
LIAC       -         Local Investment Advisory Committee
LOLC       -         Lanka Orient Leasing Company
MISA       -         Ministry of Industry and Scientific Affairs
MRID       -         Ministry for Rural Industries Development
MTI        -         Ministry of Textile Industries
NCB        -         Nationalized Commercial Banks
NDB        -         National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NIBM       -         National Institute of Business Management
NSB        -         Nationai Savings Bank
PB         -         Peoples Bank
PCI        -         Participating Credit Institutions
PMEs       -         Public Manufacturing Enterprises
RRDB       -         Regional Rural Development Banks
SITC       -         Standard International Trade Classification
SMI        -         Small and Medium Industries
TBR        -         Treasury Bill Rate
TIPR       -         Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
TOR        -         Terms of Reference
UNDP       -         United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wgithout World Bank authorization.



SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary
I.      INTRODUCTION  ...... .......................                         1
II.     SECTORAL BACKGROUND ................. .*oo.... ..*....                 1
A.  The Economic Setting   *0...........00...0.......                  1
B.  The Industrial Sector ..............,........o..o                  2
C.  The Financial Environment  oo,.**o*,.....,.ooo*                    4
D.  The SMI Sector ..,......,,....,,....0........                      8
III.    THE BANK GROUP'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY  .......                 13
A.  Lending and Industrial Strategy .........,....                    13
B.  The Bank Group's SMI Operations .................                 16
IV.     THE PROJECT  .......................        . ........@o              17
A.  Objectives and Scope ..o..........................                17
B.  Institutional Structure                                           19
C.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ................0                21
D.  The Credit Component                                              22
E.  The Technical Assistance Component                                24
V.      THE CREDIT  ................928
A.  Terms and Conditions                                              28
B.  Administration Procedures                                         30
r.  Co-Financing *o . .. . ....... .... 9 9   9*..*39- .... ii
r.  Project Benefits and Risks  ........00.0.0.0.0.0.                 32
VI.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ...........                  34
_ -                   -



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Outline GOSL: SMI Development Policy
2. Interest Rate Structure
3. Subproject Profiles: SMI I and II
4. Performance of Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
5. Improving the Efficiency of the Financial Sector
6. Review of Duty Drawback/Export Credit Procedures
7. Export Marketing Fund
8. SMI Technical Assistance Facility
9. Disbursement Schedule
10. Supporting Documents Available: Project File
This report was prepaied by Messrs. D.K. Groves, T. Maxwell, Q. Ahmed and
C. Teng following an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in May/June, 1987. The
mission combined with an ADB mission preparing the cofinancing component. A
post appraisal mission was carried out as part of a review of the industrial
sector in September 1987 to assess reconstruction needs following the recent
peace accord.



SPI LANKA
Third Small and Medium Industries Project (SMI III)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                : Democratic Socialist Republic of S.-i Lanka.
Beneficiaries           :  Eligible Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) includ-
ing public and private sector commercial banks and
development financing institutions. As Under SMI I and
II, these would include: Bank of Ceylon (BOC), Commer-
cial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC), Development Finance Corpora-
tion of Ceylon (DFCC), Hatton National Bank (HNB), and
the Peoples Bank (PB). Technical assistance would be
provided to the Export Development Board (EDB) and NDB to
improve SMI operations, and to the BOC and PB to improve
their overall operations.
Amount                   :  SDPs 15.7 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent)
Terms                    :  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Co-Finanring             : The Asian Development Bank (ADB) proposes to provide
US$15.0 million through a parallel line of credit on
terms and conditions similar to those of the proposed
Project.
Project Description    :  The objectives of the proposed project, which complement
previous and ongoing industrial sector operations, are to
(i) provide credit through the banking system to small
and medium scale private manufacturing enterprises, and
(ii) make a further contribution to policy reform and
institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff
admilaistration, export promotion and financial sector
operations.
Major components of the proposed IDA SMI Project would be
a credit component for refinancing term subloans, through
the SMI Fund, to private sec or SMIs; and a technial
assistance component to hell, COSL and relevant agencies
(i) improve the efficiency of the financial sector
through continued training for the PCIs; and technical
assistance to the BOC and PB to develop action programs
to improve their overall operating and financial
efficiency, (ii) improve the access of indirect exporters
to duty drawback and export credit facilities,



-2-
(iii) improve the efficiency of public mantfacturing
enterprises (PMEs) through the implementation of action
programs developed under ongoing industrial development
projects, and (iv) establish an SMI technical assistance
facility.
The benefits arising from the project would be more
effective investment in the industrial sector; improved
PCI performance; and increased employment opportunities.
Direct benefits of the lending component would include
US$35-US$40 million in incremental output per annum.
Through the financing of about 3,650 subprojects, about
31,400 additional jobs are expected to be created at a
job/cost ratio of US$1,750; in addition, productivity in
existing units would be improved through BMR in estment.
Although a risk exists that an adequate number of
eligible subprojects will not materialize, the project
pipeline and projections indicate a credit demand well in
excess of the amount to be provided by the proposed
credit. Collection rates could also deteriorate, but the
project provides for strengthening PCI appraisal and
supervision capabilities, particularly of the two largest
commercial banks, to help minimize this risk. The final
r sk is that the Government may not proceed with policy
reform in the area of duty drawbacks and export financing
as rapidly as expected; IDA will continue to monitor
developments closely in its economic and sector work and
project supervision.
Relending Terms          : GOSL would onlend the project proceeds to NDB for 18
years, including a five year grace period, at an initial
rate equivalent to seven percentage points below the
Average Weighted Prime Rate (AWPR) for the Commercial
Banks for short term (i.e. 12 months or less) lending
operations. In turn, NDB would refinance PCI operations
at the AWPR, less six percentage points. The PCIs would
relend the proceeds at a rate, fixed or variable, suffi-
cient to cover their costs of operation and the project
risk. Given the spread between the IDA and COSL onlend-
ing rates, GOSL will bear the foreign exchange risk. On
the basis of the present AWPR and spread requirements,
the relending rate would be between 13%-16% which com-
pares favourably with current Commercial Bank funding of
14%-22%. The mechanism for establishing interest rates
and spreads would be reviewed semi annually and, if
necessary, adjusted based on procedures agreed between
COSL and IDA. The actual rate charged to NDB and sub-
sequently to the PCIs shall be amended on January 1 and



-3-
July 1 to (i) reflect any significant movement in the
market reference rate, and (ii) remain positive in real
terms vis-a-vis inflation as reflected by the Colombo
Price Index. The maximum subproject repayment period
would be ten years including a two year grace period.
Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  'otal    g of
--.--(Rs Million) ---    -    U$ Million)    -    Total
Subproject Investment         484.5   840.7   1t325.2   17.0    29.5    46.5        63.5
Technical Assistance:
Financial Sector Efficiency   31.4    65.6        96.9    1.1      2.3     3.4      68
Export Promotion               14.3    17.1       31.4    0.5      0.6      1.1     55
SMI Technical Assistance
Facility                     11.3    14.3       25.5    0.4      0.5     0.9      56
Improving Industrial
Efficiency                   28.5    59.8       88.4    1.0      2.1     3.1      68
Total Project Cost            570.0   997.5   1,567.5   20.0    35.0    55.0        63.5
Financing Plan
ADB                                    427.5     427.5      -     15.0    15.0      27.3
GOSL                           57.0               57.0    2.0       -       2.0
PCIs                          228.0              228.0    8.0       -       8.0
Sub-borrowers                 285.0              285.0   10.0       -      10.0
IDA                             -     570.0      570.0            20.0    20.0       6.2
570.0   997l5 1t567.5   20.0    35.0    55.0          63.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=      =     = = = =  = = = =   = = = =  = = ==    _



-4-
Disbursements
Bank Group Fiscal Year                 FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
…(US$ Million)----------------
Annual                                  3.0      3.0      4.0    5S0       4.0      1.0
Cumulative                              3.0      6.0    10.0    15.0    19..0    20.0
%                                        15       30       50       75      95      100
Economic Rate of
Return (ERR)           :  A minimum ERR of 15% would be required for all
subprojects above the PCI review free limit or with
nominal tariff protection of more than 40%.
Staff Appraisal Report :  No. 6823-CE
Map                      :  No. IBRD 17278



SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Government of Sri Lanka's (GOSL) Statement on Industrial Policy
(IPS) of February 1987, gives high priority to private industrial develop-
ment, with particular emphasis upon the cole of small and medium industries
(SMI). The Statement continued GOSL's support since 1977 for industrial
development via the SMI sector. IDA has assisted GOSL's strategy by provid-
ing credit, technical and marketing assistance to SMIs and by improving the
institutional arrangements for credit delivery under two previous Small and
Medium Industry (SMI) projects (paras. 3.07-3.09). With little or no
experience of SMI financing in Sri Lanka, institutional performance under
the first SMI was mixed. However, with the foundation of experience of
SMI r, performance under SMI II has been satisfactory and GOSL has requested
financing for a third SMI project to support the thrust of its IPS. This
report recommends a Credit of SDRs 15.7 million (US$ 20.0 million) which
would be supplemented by cofinancing of US$15.0 million from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB).
II.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Setting 1/
2.01    Real CDP in Sri Lanka grew by only 2.7% p.a. during 1970-1976, due
to a combination of a policy framework unconducive to growth or efficiency,
poor weather conditions which affected agricultural growth adversely and the
sharp rise in fuel costs. In late 1977, the newly elected Government
initiated a liberalization strategy with the objective of increasing the
growth rate of production and em,ployment, savings and investment and
exports. 2/ To achieve these objectives, GOSL introduced policies which
included exchange rate unification and depreciation, import trade liberaliza-
tion, interest rate increases to encourage savings, full cost pricing for
1/ For a comprehensive review of the current economic situation in
Sri Lanka, see Report No. 6701-CE Sri Lanka--Issues in Macro-Economic
and Industrial Development Policy, dated April 20, 1987.
2/  This retorm program was introduced in agreement with the IMF in sup-
port of a standby facility and, subsequently, in January 1979, an
Extended Fund Facility.



-2-
most imported commodities and the establishment of a free trade zone to
attract export-oriented foreign private investment. The economy initia'ly
reacted vigorously to these changes, with real CDP growch accelerating to an
average of 7.3% p.a. during 1977-1979, but it slowed down to 5.4% in
1978-1986. The main areas of growth have been agriculture, services, garment
exports and construction, all of which benefitted from libe'alization, the
increased level of investment and other incentives. With assistance from
foreign donors, fixed investment has risen from about 15% of GElP in the early
1970s to 26% in 1986.
2.02    Some of the policies and achievements also led to serious financial
imbalances. For example, as the public investment program gained momentum,
it grew beyond the country's resource availabilities, thus contributing to
unsustainable budgetary and balance of payments deficits and to undesirable
levels of foreign commercial borrowing. More importantly, the imbalances in
the budget and in the balance of pavments were aggravated by an inadequate
public sector resource mobilization effort and by the existence of an overall
policy environment not conducive to exports due to a lack of adjustment in
the exchange rate and high protection which created a bias toward import
substitution. Although the budget deficit decreased significantly during the
late 1970s with significant increases in public sector investment and a
disappointing revenue effort, it remained in the 10%-14% range duiring the mid
1980s. Due to this budgetary deficit, external developments and an incentive
structure biased against exports, the current account deficit increased to
19.8% of CDP in 1980, declining significantly to 4.8% in 1984, but increased
to an estimated 9% in 1986. After a short lived increase in 1984-85 the
prices of the key traditional exports (tea, rubber and coconut) have resumed
their earlier decline and forced a deterioration of 18% in the terms of trade
between 1985-86. This has impacted upon reserves, which now stand at about
two months of imports, and the debt servicing ratio is 28% of export income.
The sudden decline of tea, rubbet and coconut prices in 1985-86 and the
increasing level of ethnic disturbances, with its consequent impact on
budgetary resources and negative impact on the service sector (e.g. tourism),
underscores the continued vulnerability of the Sri Lankan economy and the
need for diversification. In these circumstances particular attention must
be given to the stimulation of industrial growth and exports.
B.   The Industrial Sector
2.03    Structure and Performance.  Although Sri Lanka has a limited
industrial base, the manufacturing sector accounts for about 15% of GDP and
45% of exports. The sector's structure has remained relatively unchanged
over the past decade. Large enterprises, mainly public sector corporations,
are concentrated in cement, ceramics, chemicals, petroleum, textiles, steel
and wood products. Currently, the manufacturing sector consists of 20
medium- to large-scale public manufacturing enterprises (PMEs) under the
control of the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA); about 50
corporations supervised by other line Ministries; about 400 large-scale



registered private factories mainly in thie Colombo area; b,000 smal; and
medium registeted private factories; 25,000 dispersed small and rortage Jnits
concentrated in handicrafts and industrial services, and about 70,001) small
informal agro-indlustrial units.  At the Lime of the last industt:al  ensus Ln
1983 there weee 100,900 industrial establtshments.  Over 86% of these
employed fewer than five workers. Howevet, units with less than tjve
employees account for 30% of employment and contributed about 8% to value
added and output.  More dramatically, they achieve a value added per person
of only Rs 7,900 (US$275), compared to Rs 40,000 (US$1,400) for the larger
private sector units.  Overall the private 8ecLoQ  employs 90% of *nd'Astrial
workers and accounts for about 60% of manufactured value added.
2.04    Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial perfor-
mance. Liberalization of trade and industrial policies in 1977, the lifting
of foreign exchange restrictions and growing commitment to the private sector
as a basis for industrial uevelopment contributed to strong industrial growth
of about 8% p.a. in 1978. However, after this initial improvement, the rate
of real growth in industry slowed to an annual average real rate of 6% in
1978-1986. The appreciation of the exchange rate after 1978 adversely
affected the production of traded goods. Furthermore, although import
tariffs were maintained to provide significant levels of tariff protection
for manufacturers vis-a-vis other sectors the growth opportunities created by
the inward tooking policy were limited due to the small size of the local
market. There have been wide variations in the performance of the public and
private sector enterprises. While overall growth in industrial output from
1978 to .986 was 6% p.a., output of the PMEs essentially stagnated with an
average annual growth rate of only 1%. Private sector output is dominated by
chemical, rubber and plastic products (34%); beverages and tobacco (27%); and
textiles, garments and fabrics (25%). Garments exports, which increased from
US$12 million in 1977 to US$325 million in 1986, now account for about 57% of
total manufactured exports although the valued added content is only about
10%. Despite the private secto:'s growth, the PMEs remain important,
accounting for about 50% of industrial investment and contributing abou.. 40%
of value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector.
The Industrial Policy Framework
2.05    Prior to 1977 the industrial sector policy framework constrained its
devclvpment along the lines of its comparative advantage. High protection
levels and subsidies to capital, and heavily taxS1 1 bor, led to a high
concentrated and capital intensive industrial structure. Complex Government
regulations and interventions led to heavy administrative and regulatoly
structures, features accentuated by the emphasis given to PMEs. Moreover,
Government encouraged the creation of industries contributing to the vertical
integration of productive processes with a view to substituting for imports,
a characteristic particularly visible in the textile sector, thus reducing
even further gains of specialization.



-4-
2.06    In recognizing the constraints caused by these policies, GOSL has
made a number of major revisions to its policies since 1977. It has replaced
most import quotas and licensing with tariffs and provided improved invest-
ment and export incentives for foreign and local entrepreneurs. In 1986,
with Technical Assistance (TA) funding from the First Industrial Development
Project (IDP I--Cr. 1401-CE), GOSL prepared an IPS linking the present situa-
tion and its medium term industrial objectives. Cabinet has accepted the IPS
and COSL has establisned a small Council of Ministers and a Presidential
Committee on Privatization (PCP) consisting of three civil servants and three
private sector industrialists to develop a detailed implementation program,
which would become the key element in any future dialogue between COSL and
IDA on proposed industrial sector lending to Sri Lanka. COSL's policies
relating to SMI operations are set out in Annex 1. In the meantime, however,
a great deal remains to be done to translate the proposais of the IPS into
effect: (i) action is necessary to ensure that the Tariff Commission is
appropriately staffed to carry out impact assessments of previous tariff
reform and to implement agreed programs of further tariff reform. Adequate
staffing would be a necessary conditions for negotiations; (ii) a further
reduction is necessary in the bias toward import substitution in favor of
export orientation, particularly in the provision of export financing and the
extension of duty drawbacks to indirect exporters; (iii) significant commer-
c:alization and rationalization of the PMEs, which are highly inefficient, is
needed to improve their contribution to the Treasury; (iv) improvement is
required in the allocation of financial resources through increased financial
sector efficiency and the development of market determined interest rates;
and (v) a reduction is necessary in the regulations affecting new and exist-
ing business operations. The proposed project woula address a number of
these issues which specifically constrain SMI development.
C. The Financial Environment l/
The Banking System
2.07    Prior to 1977, the institutional sources for industrial financing
were four domestic commercial banks (CBs), DFCC and four foreign commercial
banks (FCBs). Traditionally, private industry relied on self-financing for
up to 80% of its fixed capital needs and on commercial bank credit to finance
working capital, with some rollovers for long term investment. Overall, CB
credit accounted for about 85% of all institutional finance to private
industry. Although public sector industrial corporations obtained CB credit
budgetary allocations accounted for 80% of their financial requirements.
DFCC was the only source of long term equity and loans, with a monopoly in
1/ Annex 10.3 in the Project File--The Structure of the Finance System
and the Provision of Industrial Finance--gives a more comprehensive
review of the finance environment.



-5-
foreign exchange lending to private industry. Since 1977, a significant
number of FCBs have entered the financial system, NDB was established, and
leasing companies and a number of general financing institutions have set up
ope:ations. The expanded system consists of The National Savings Bank (NSB),
two public and two private domestic commercial banks, two industrial develop-
ment banks, four regional rural development banks (RRDBs), 21 FCBs, 24 for-
eign currency banking units, 50 finance companies providing leasing and hire
purchase facilities, three major specialized leasing companies and several
provident funds and insurance companies. There are six money brokers who
operate in the interbank/secondary market. In addition to the institutions
monitored by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), there is an active unoffi-
cial market with deposit and lending rates higher than official rates.
2.08    The non-bank financial institutions involved in providing services
to the industrial sector include finance companies, leasing companies and two
merchant banks. The merchant banks have been inactive mainly due to the slow
development of the securities markets. However, because of the tax
advantages of leasing, finance and leasing companies have developed rapidly;
presently more than 50 finance companies offer hire purchase finance. Six
leasing companies, including Lanka Orient Leasing (LOLC) in which IFC has a
shareholding, also provide term financing. These institutions have grown
rapidly by offering high interest rates on deposits and lend for consumer
goods and transport equipment.
2.09    The two Government-owned national commercial banks (NCBs), the Bank
of Ceylon (BOC) and the People's Bank (PB), dominate the commercial banking
system, accountinig for approximately 75% of deposits.  The commercial banks
are involved primarily in short-term lending, with about 50% of lending going
to commerce and 25% to industry. Most commercial bank resources come from
sort term deposits, with few deposits of a mattrity of 12 months or longer.
Because of the need to meet Business Turnover Tax (BTT) charges, high CBSL
reserve provisions, and to service the cost of large non performing asset
portfolios, the NCBs' lending margins are relatively high (6%-8%).
2.10    GOSL and CBSL have continuously stressed the need for the NCBs to
improve their efficiency while giving preference to agriculture and other
priority (and high-risk) sectors. However, these entreaties have had little
success, on the one hand, because of inadequate debt recovery regulations
and, on the other the Banks' reluctance to accept risks involved in lending
to some high priority sectors. Cabinet is presently considering changes to
debt recovery rules and regulations including (i) simplification of the
procedures for the issue and service of summons for debt recovery; (ii) the
introduction of a "market rate of interest" related to the Treasury Bill Rate
(TBR) which debtors would have to pay from the date of a court award to the
date of payment; and (iii) establishment of one or more specially designated
"Commercial" Courts with sole powers and exclusive jurisdiction to hear cases
submitted by "approved credit institutions". Administrative proposals



-6-
include (i) the establishment of a Credit Insurance Fund; (ii) the estab-
linhment of a Credit Information Bureau coordinated by the CBSL Banking
Supervision Division; and (iii) the redistribution of work among the Colombo
Courts to concentrate debt recovery actions in one court.
Capital Market
2.11    The market for shares and other securities in Sri Lanka is
undeveloped and stocks and debentures have not been significant sources of
finance for industry. Although a small number of brokers make a market for
shares and about 300 companies are listed, most are closely held or dormant,
and tradin, volume is thin. Development of the market has been hampered on
the supply side by the relatively small number of medium and large companies
in Sri Lanka and the strong tradition of closely held ownership. On the
demand side, interest in investing in shares is low due to relatively high
returns available on fixed interest deposits and commercial activities. GOSL
is taking steps to revitalize the market through (i) the formation of an
equity fund, (ii) legislation to establish a Securities Council to monitor
the operations of the capital market, and (iii) consolidation of the opera-
tions of the country's two stock exchanges which have not operated effec-
tively.
2.12    Once the procedures proposed under the Securities Council Act are in
place, COSL could stimulate greater securities activity and the development
of primary and secondary markets in Governmental instruments by increasing
the tax incentive for companies to go public, reforming the system of under-
writing, developing new investment and unit trusts by DFCC and the merchant
banks and issuing shares in profitable public sector corporations. This
would complement the establishment of the Sri Lar,ka Capital Development and
Investment Company (CDIC) by GOSL, NDB ant other Sri Lankan financial
institutions, including the state-owned commercial banks, to provide equity
to new ventures, particularly joint ventures between public corporations and
private parties. The measures proposed by GOSL to develop the capital market
into a major source of industrial financing are a step in the right direc-
tion, but more needs to be done. A joint IMF/Bank review of the Financial
Sector in May 1986 considered the role of the capital market in the financial
sector and proposed a general outline program for upgrading its activities.
This is to be taken up under a proposed Financial Sector Credit in FY89/FY90.
interest Rates
2.13    After 16% inflation in 1983, inflation declined to 1.5% in 1985, but
rose to 8% in 1986. (Based upon the Colombo Consumer Price Index.) In
response to a tighter monetary policy and proposed policy changes to support
a SAF from the IMF, projections for 1987-1990, which assume reduced budget
deficits, anticipate inflation to be 8%-10% over the next three years.
Against this background of inflation movement, interest rates have remained
positive in real terms for some time. However, GOSL's interest rate and
i V.      -   . - t .   R     a . . -             -.



-7-
refinancing pclicies have led to the present structure and level of interest
rates are affected by a number of anomalies, including (i) an interest rate
structure with wide ranges in lending and deposit rates, with some deposit
rates exceeding lending rates; (ii) simultaneous inadequate and excessive
liquidity in different financial institutions; (iii) high reserve require-
ments for financial institutions side by side with an unregutated capital
market; and (iv) priority for Government resource mobilization over private
sector financing. Although term deposit and loan interest rates have
declined considerably during FY85-FY87, interest rates overall are still
high. Currently, long-term deposit rates (i.e., 12 months) are about 10%-14%
(Aanex 2). Term loans are presently 14% and working capital rates 14%-22%,
partly due to the CBSL's restrictive monetary (i.e. reserve) policies and
partly due to high spread requirements to meet GOSL tax requirements and to
service the cost of funding non performing investments.
2.14    The constraining effect of high real interest rates on economic
activity has been compounded by the perverse relationship of relative rates
with medium- and long-term lending rates being less than time deposit and
savings rates. Currently, under CBSL's refinance schemes and the lending
policies for term financing of the state-owned commercial and development
banks, lending rates for medium- and long-term loans are 8% below the rates
for Commercial Bank overdrafts and equal to the Average Weighted Prime Rate
(AWPR) of 14.5% for prime short term lending operations. Through this sub-
sidy mechanism, COSL has tried to insulate the non-traditional manufacturing
and export sector from the high cost of capital, but given the fungibility of
finance and complementarity of fixed and working capital, this policy has not
been very effective. GOSL has also devised complex regulations to dis-
criminate in its financial subsidy policy between agriculture, tourism,
manufacturing, approved ministerial projects and others. The financial
system, which is largely owned or controlled by the State has, until
recently, also been used to subsidize PMEs, diverting funds from potentially
viable private sector projects. Under the proposed Project, steps would be
taken to increase the role of market forces in the determination of term
lending rates; initially funds would be onlent from GOSL via NDB to the PCIs
at an agreed spread below the AWPR, which is the -esent market reference for
interest rate determination under ongoing IDA Projects.  The AWPR is proposed
as the initial interest rate reference point pending the maturity of the
CBSL's Treasury Bill Market or the determination of some other appropriate
market related reference. Using the AWPR as a reference, the PCIs would be
free to charge sub-borrowers a variable or fixed term lending rate that
reflected their cost of borrowing and project risk. In line with the recom-
mendations of the June 1986 joint IMF/Bank Financial Sector Report the CBSL
is developing a Treasury Bill Market through the weekly auction of Treasury
Bills. In the short time since its creation in January 1987, the Treasury
Bill market (which is a voluntary market) has developed into a sizable and
relatively free market with about 30%-40% of total bills outstanding held
outside the CBSL although the degree to which this growth is linked to the
tax exempt status of TB income has not been quantified. With sustained



-8-
growth in the Treasury Bill Market the TBR could become a viable alternative
for the AWPR as the market reference for determining onlending rates under
the proposed project and at the time of the semi annual interest rate
mechanism review agreed with GOSL consideration would be given to the use of
the TBR as the market reference.
D.  The SMI Sector
The Policy EnvironmenL
2.15    COSL defines small and medium industry (SMI) units as any industrial
enterprise privately or cooperatively owned with total fixed assets (exclud-
ing land and buildings) with a book value not exceeding Rs 4 million
(US$140,000) prior to the granting of a subloan. Government policies for
industrial development allow SMIs to set up and operate with little regula-
tion, and market signals are the main determinants of SMI investments and
their viability. Except for location permits in line with zoning regula-
tions, licensing is not required to establish an SMI unit. GOSL's policy
requires SMIs to be in the private sector.  Subsectors with strong potential,
high value added and limited economies of scale are promoted, but not
reserved, for SMI production.  There is a push to develop SMIs in more remote
urban and rural areas (particularly in the Mahaweli) but this objective again
is pursued by promotion and provision of services rather than with distor-
tionary incentives. With the recent signing of the Indian-Sri Lankan peace
accord COSL is giving particular emphasis to employment generated through SMI
operations in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.
2.16    Technical assistance activities in support of SMI are at present
mait.ly a government responsibility, carried out by technical agencies under
the direct control of the Ministries of Industries and Scientific Affairs
(MISA), Textile Industries (MTI) or Rural Industries Development (MRID).
These include the Industrial Development Board (IDB), the Export Levelopment
Board (EDB) and the Textile and Garment Industries Training Centres. To a
large extent these agencies have focused their assistance to the SMI sector
on providing physical facilities, developing industrial estates, building and
equipping service centres and establishing training and production centres
for handicrafts. The First and Second SMI Projects supported these agencies
in their programs for the promotion of new, viable enterprises and the provi-
sion of extension services to existing firms. Components under the SMI
projects encouraged them to increase their contact with the private sector by
emphasizing activities which support local entrepreneurs, and providing
direct services to the private sector in project preparation, export promo-
tion and extension services. While some TA activities, especially those with
a strong focus on direct relationship with local businessmen, have been quite
effective in meeting SMI needs for technical and marketing support, deficien-
cies still exist due to the quality of some of the services and the effec-
tiveness of the delivery system itself. Considering the inherent limitations
of these public sector organizations in staffing and funding, alternative
channels in the private sector should be developed. Under the proposed
project, this approach will be tried in the areas of export marketing and SMI
technical assistance (paras. 4.21-4.26).



-9-.
Characteristics and Role of SMI
2.17    Sectoral Share.  3MIs continue to dominate the private manufacturing
sector, accounting for over 90% of private industrial units, over 70% of
employment and over 55% of value added in private manufacturing. The only
substantial increases in larger industrial investment and output have been
among firms involving foreign capital, approved either by the GCEC or FIAC.
During July 1977-June 1986 about 450 manufacturing firms were approved; if
implemented, these approvals would represent Rs 8.1 billion (US$280 million)
in total investments, and employment potential of 87,000. GCEC approved
operations averaged Rs 12 million per investment and FIAC approved firms
Rs 23 million. However, only about 20% of these firms are in commercial
operation, and the number to be implemented is uncertain. The trends in
CCEC/FIAC approvals have also been falling since 1983, with a steady decline
in investment in all subsectors. Domestic investment has increased markedly,
however, and combined local/foreign investments have shown a steady increase,
with growth most noticeable in SMI operations.
2.18    Geographical Distribution.  About 65% of registered SMIs are located
in the urban areas of Colombo, Kalutara, Kandy, Matara, Jaffna, Calle and
Kurunegala districts (Annex 3). Unregistered small and cottage industries
are more widely dispersed among small towns and villages, the Colombo dis-
trict representing only abcut 30% of the units. While unregistered small
firms are characterized by wide dispersal, the major product lines are con-
centrated in varying districts, depending upon location of raw materials or
market access. In each of the ten major Standard International Trade Class-
ification product lines, which account for 60% of the 15,500 units in the 300
products lines defined by IDB, three districts contain over 50% of the units.
2.19    Subsectoral Distribution.  The main SMI product groups, constituting
about 90% of the employment and 85% of the invesUirent in registered SMIs, are
textiles and garments, light engineering, rubber and chemical goods, wood and
paper products (Annex 3). Most LIAC approvals during 1980-86 have been in
these groups, as well as building materials in response to growth in public
and private construction. Product concentrations among unregistered SMI
units are found in related lines: handlooms, pottery, jaggery, blacksmithing,
sheet rubber, rice mills and bricks. However, several of these traditional
products have been unsuccessful in competing with local or imported items
manufactured by labor-intensive modern firms.
2.20    Growth Subsectors.  Agro-industries, selected textile products and
light engineering are expected to be growth areas in the medium term. In the
recent past agro-industries (food processing, etc.) accounted for about 30%
of SMI investments. This subsector's importance is likely to increase, as
expansion in agricultural output in the Mah&weli area generates larger
agricultural surpluses for processing. Substantial capacity expansion is
expected in rice and flour milling, oil extraction and ice and cold storage
for the fishing, poultry and cash crop sectors. Also, project opportunities
in the handling, storage and processing of fruits and vegetables for domestic
and export markets could be numerous. Growth in the tlcilliary sectors



-10-
supporting the garment sector, which accounted for about 57% of manufactured
exports, is projected to develop in response to continued investments in
garment manufacturing for exports based on both local cotton and imported
blend fabrics. In light engineering, the investment level of about 20% will
probably continue, concentrating in engineering workshops, in response to
maintenance requirement of agricultural equipment, faster urbanization and
industrialization. Although not presently significant, the number of SMI
units owned or operated by women, particularly in the garment, handicraft and
food processing industries, is increasing and the general support given under
SMI I and II would continue under the proposed project.
2.21    Export Market Prospects.  In the past, SMI production for exports
concentrated on products such as textiles, garments, handicrafts, etc. which
were exported mainly to Europe and the United States. More recently,
however, there has been increasing product and market diversification, demon-
strated by exports of leather products, fashion garments and processed marine
products, fruits and vegetables to newer markets including Europe and the
Middle East. The outlook for further growth appears promising, provided that
appropriate policy and institutional support are developed. A central
deficiency in the present system is that only direct exporters are entitled
to export incentives. This has restricted development in the export sector
with companies of limited size trying to export directly despite lack of
expertise. A related institutional problem is the lack of private sector
marketing institutions with strong marketing skills which can assist small
producers in export market development.  These aspects will be addressed in
the proposed project (para. 4.22).
SMI Credit
2.22    Past Investment.  Since 1977 credit has expanded in all sectors. 1/
From June 1980 to June 1986, institutional credit to the private sector
increased by nearly 70% in nominal terms. 2/ However, a large portion of
private sector credit went for trade, particularly imports. 3/ Industrial
1/ Of the 21 commercial banks operating in Sri Lanktn, 18 have established
Foreign Currency Banking Units; total assets/liabilities iicreased
from US$220 million at December 31, 1980 to US$400 million at December
31, 1986. Of the US$360 million in advances, 89% were for under six
months, with less than 6% having maturities of over three years.
2/ Public development projects were funded largely through the budget,
while public corporations, until recent curbs, relied largely on
suppliers' credits.
3/ Advances for commercial purposes represented 50% of total advances at
June 30, 1986.
__s



-11-
credit represented about 25% of total commercial bank advances at June 1986;
while short-term advances continued to dominate, medium- and long-term credit
showed a modest increase in share, from 19.6% of industrial advances at June
1980 to 21.4% by June 1986. Loans to textile, food processi..g, chemical and
metal industries constitute over 90% of private industrial credit.
2.23    GOSL has initiated a number of measures to facilitate growth in
industrial and export credit for both small and large scale industry.
Through the use of a revolving fund, NDB has established sound direct lending
and SMI refinance operations and now plays a key role in SMI refinancing.
In 1980, the Sri Larka Export Credit Insurance Corporation provided
facilities for pre- and post-shipment credit and the CBSL has continued to
refinance term loans to small, medium and large scale enterprises which
export at least 20% of their output value. Difficulties exist with tilis
scheme as availability Af refinance funds from the CBSL fluctuates. Overall,
however, these measures have increased availability of short and long term
finance, particularly for non-traditional SMI export enterprises.
2.24    Future Demand.  Provision of NDB refinance, effective incentives and
SMI project promotion training have resulted in substantial increases in the
PCI term lending to SMIs with the demand by existing and new SMIs for term
loans increasing. With sizable growth prospects in agro-industries, light
engineering, and construction as well as in a range of export-related lines,
demand for credit by SMIs is expected to remain strong.  With the total
commitment of available funds under SMI II, SDRs 7.5 million of subloan
applications are presently held pending with the PCIs, and applications are
being approved at the rate of SDRs 1.2 million per month.  Implementation of
the recent peace accord is also likely to generate renewed investment in SMI
operations, particularly for balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces. Against this background projected demand
for term credit by SMIs during 1988-90 is estimated at US$150 million. About
US$75 million of this demand is expected to be met from institutional sour-
ces; IDA and ADB cofinancing under the proposed project would contribute
US$35 million for 4,250 subloans. Other institutional sources would include:
SMI Fund refinance using repayments from SMI I and II, commercial bank
credit, mainly for working capital, using internal resources; and CBSL
refinance. The size of the SMI III lending component is geared to the SMI
project lending capacities of the PCIs; the Project would involve substan-
tial, continuous institution-building elements.
Technical and Marketing Services
2.25    The Ministry of Rural Industry Development (MRID).  The MRID, through
the IDB (which was previously controlled by MISA) is responsible for provid-
ing technical and extension services to all SMI subsectors except textiles
and cottage industries. Under SMI I and II, IDB was responsible for
implementing specific programs to establish service centres for developing



-12-
rubber products, building materials and light engineering, and for estab-
lishing a subcontracting exchange to facilitate purchasing links between
small and larger firms. To date the programs have had limited success. IDB
has faced problems with the exodus of officers to private as well as other
public institutions. However, under MRID, IDB plans to upgrade its perfor-
mance by improving career paths for extension officers, strengthening its
regional services through intensive coaching, and tapping private sector
know-how in addressing the technical needs of its SMI clients. The Depart-
ment of Small Industries (DSI), also under MRID, is responsible for services
to cottage industries; while DSI has made some progress in developing the
coconut fibre industr;, most of its programs deal with promotion of hand-
icrafts for local sale.
2.26    The Ministry of Textile Industries (MTI) formulates policies and
implemegts programs for Lhe textile and garment subsectors; under SMI I, MTI
established a very successful Garment Industry Training Institute (GITI) with
outside collaboration and participation of the Garment Exporters' Associa-
tion. The Department of Textile Industries, under MTI, has been successful
in transferring most of its operations to the private sector, selling its
powerlooms and organizing decentralized production and exports of handloom
products.
2.27    The Export Development Board (EDB) established in 1979 is the execu-
tive arm of the Export Development Council of Ministers, headed by the Presi-
dent. The EDB was established to: advise GOSL on formulation of export
development policies and programs; do research and development on export
products and markets; and act as the central agency for export and related
supply development, coordinating the activities of key public and private
agents. Several private associations and advisory committees of exporters
and manufacturers in major product groups have been organized; EDB uses these
private groups to implement subsector development schemes. However, with its
strong management and financial position the EDB should have performed more
dynamically. Although the EDB places strong emphasis on mobilizing the
private sector to expand exports and to establish a supply base for light
industrial products, progress has not been significant.
2.28    Private Technical and Marketing Services.  The EDB, IDB and other
SMI service institutions have useful roles to play in: providing effective
investment and export incentives for industry; identifying and promoting
promising product lines; and filling gaps in technical services to help
improve productivity. However, due to problems attracting, retaining, and
motivating suitable managerial and technical staff they have difficulty
providing the effective consultancy and commercial services needed for SMI
development. Higher salaries are available in the private and banking sec-
tors, and civil service rules make it difficult for a government agency to
offer attractive performance incentives. Also, political pressures often
result in diversion of staff and funds from activities with high impact and
prevent promotions based upon performance. In contrast, private commercial



-13-
agencies have a direct, concrete interest in maximizing efficiency. The
comparative advantage of public institutions is in develupifg certain target
groups for economic and social reasons, rather than focusing only on short
term profitabilityq However, they are likely to continue losing their best
talent to the private sector.  The challenge is to have SMi tap the know-how
available in both the public and private sector, making it profitable for
efficient private organizations to meet development objectives.  Some of this
can be achieved by "getting the prices right" through export and investment
incentives and tariff revisions.  However, more direct managerial, marketing
and technical services also are needed to address key constraints blocking
growth in SMIs and other key export-oriented light industries. SMI III would
assist SMI investors to tap private capabilities to meet these needs through
technical assistance, quality improvements and export marketing assistance.
III.  THE BANK GROUP'S INDUSTRIAL STRATEGY
A. Lending and Industrial Strategy
3.01    The promotion of Sri Lanka's industrial sector has long been an
objective of the Bank Group (IDA/IBRD) policy. This has been considered
necessary both to create an alternative stable source of growth and employ-
ment and to strengthen the balance of payments through the growLh of exports
and import substitutes. To date, IDA has pursued its industrial sector
objectives by means of a series of IDF operations which have channelled funds
primarily through two specialized development finance institutions: DFCC and
NDB for medium-sized industry and through these institutions and selected
commercial banks for small and medium scale industry. Four loans were made
to DFCC prior to 1977, aimed at supporting private firms' foreign exchange
requirements. Credits for SMI development approved in 1979 and 1981 were
channelled through DFCC, NDB and the commercial banks. An Industrial
Development Project (IDP I--Cr.1401-CE) was approved in June 1983, followed
by IDP II (Cr. 1692-CE) in October 1986 to DFCC and NDB for large scale
industrial investment and important elements of policy reform. These eight
operations represent a transfer of resources of about US$200 million at
current prices.
3.02    The main thrust of IDA lending in support of the industrial sector
(in addition to meeting long-term foreign exchange needs) has been two-fold:
to strengthen institutional aspects of development finance and to establish a
better policy framework for the industrial sector. As regards the former,
results have been mixed. Whilp DFCC and NDB are generally effective term
lending institutions, they nave sorre problems. Because of heavy investment
in tourism prior to the ethnic disturbances, both face potentially serious
collection problems, although this risk has been eased by CBSL refinancing/
rescheduling of the tourist loan portfolio. Both need to diversify their
sources of funding and the range of their activities to compete more effec-
tively in the financial system. More fundamentally, these institutions are
~~~~~~~~~~~_ W



-14-
not fully integrated into the financial system, depending heavily on Govern-
ment support and conducting their operations under interest rate structures
that make it impossible for them to raise domestic resources on a commercial
basis. These problems are being addressed at least in part with TA under
IDP II. With the assistance of NDB, IDA has also developed a successful
program of lending through the commercial banks for SMI operations. However,
the commercial banks are still developing their capabilities to appraise
large scale industrial projects, and IDA financing for such projects is
presently confined to the two DFIs. The July 1986 IMF/Bank Financial Sector
report which focused upon the operating efficiency of the NCBs, recommended
strengthening of the capital market, introduction of a Treasury Bill Market
(para. 2.14), changes in reserve requirements, and general measures for
institutional reform now provides IDA with the much needed comprehensive view
of the financial system needed to develop a strategy for reform and this is
initiated under the proposed project.
3.03    With respect to the second objective--policy improvement--under IDP I
and II a comprehensive phased program of trade and industrial policy reform
program (TIPR) is being implemented by GOSL which focuses on tariff reform
and import liberalization, rationalization of export incentives, a review of
the industrial incentive structure, privatization of the PMEs through
rationalization and development of performance evaluating and monitoring
systems, and implementation of GOSL's recently prepared IPS.
3.04    Despite the work program which has been agreed, considerable dif-
ficulties remain. Notwithstanding GOSL's stated commitment to the TIPR
program, its political ability to take effective action in the light of the
need to implement the requirements of the recent Indo-Sri Lankan peace accord
and the forthcoming 1989 elections will dictate the pace of future reform.
Tariff reforms have been proposed and action taken to implement many of the
proposals which significantly reduced the levels of tariff protection on a
wide range of products/industries. Subsequent modifications have diluted
some of the real impact of the changes, and the protective structure still in
place affords significant protection to PME industrial units or monopoly
products. Export and industrial incentives need further rationalization and
improvement, but there is not a clear consensus in the Government on how best
to proceed with this. Progress on public enterprise reform has been very
slow; while some action has been taken to privatize or close units and fur-
ther divestments are under consideration, GOSL has not developed a clearly
articulated policy with respect to the role of PMEs, nor fully committed
itself to their operating autonomy. Finally, there is a need for a detailed
program of actions to support the IPS to ensure consistency of industrial
policy decisions. Recent discussions with COSL in the context of a proposed
IMF Structural Adjustment Facility and future industrial sector lending hold
out promise of such a program; however, the desire for concensus within
Government portends slow progress in its development and actual implementa-
tion.



-15-
Future Involvement
3.05    The objective of future IDA operations in the industrial sector is
to formulate a program of action to achieve already agreed industrial objec-
tives for Sri Lanka. The strategy's .jasic objectives are to increase the
efficiency and growth of industry by;  increasing private activity, improving
the environment for export industries, reducing the protection of the domes-
tic market, adopting a more dynamic approach to public sector operations,
improving the allocation of financial resources, and improving the efficiency
of financial intermediaries.
3.06    The strategy objectives indicate clearly that the IDA views its
involvement as a multi-faceted one. Individual actions need to be considered
in the context of an integrated approach to address sector issues and
priorities. Four operations are presently planned to achieve some of these
objectives:
(a) The proposed SMI III would focus on one or two areas of necessary
TIPR, on policy issues affecting SMI operations and provide needed
financial assistance to SMI through the financial system. SMI III
would support the overall institutional development of the PCIs,
upgrading their appraisal capability to enable them eventually to
appraise larger projects. It would also initiate action to address
some of the major issues identified in the 1986 joint IMF/IBRD Finan-
cial Sector Report including the need to reduce the costs of Commer-
cial Bank intermediation. The Project would provide the technical
assistance necessary to (i) lay the foundations for financial sector
reform, and would represent a key step in moving toward a Financial
Sector lending operation in FY90, (ii) extend export credit and duty
drawback facilities to indirect exporters, and (iii) further steps to
improve the productivity performance of SMIs;
(b)  A third Industrial Development Project (IDP III) in FY88/FY89,
providing funds for large scale industrial investment, would focus
on further tariff and export incentive structure rationalization and
would also expand the focus on debt recovery policies and procedures;
(c) A Public Sector Enterprise Restructuring Credit in FY90 or a similar
operation integrated closely with the SAP would focus on privatiza-
tion of the PMEs and specificallv upon the rationalization and
improvement of operating efficiency in the telecommunications, cement
and textile subsectors; and
(d) A multi institutional Financial Sector Credit (FY90) based on the
institutional reviews of the NCBs and operational diversification of
the DFIs under IDP II and SMI III.



-16-
B. The Bank Grou s SMI 0 erations
3.07    IDA's two SMI projects expanded the institutional coverage of lending
operations by assisting GOSL to establish new financing instituti,ns and for
the first time, using public and private commercial banks as intermediaries
for term financing in Sri Lanka. The projects also addressed technical and
marketing constraints in major light industrial subsectors, supporting the
promotion and extension services of EDB and the IDB; and assisted GOSL
develop the technical fo,indations for Lhe major reform of COSL's trade and
industrial policies, particularly in the area of tariffs, by funding effec-
tive protection and export incentive studies.  More specifically, SMI I
(CR.942-CE) contributed substantially to the establishment of NDB, providing
technical and institutional assistance in support of its eirect and SMT
re-financing activities. The Project also provided local and international
training for some 950 loan officers and managers at regional and branch
level.  Under the Project, about 1,745 subloans averaging US$9,100 were
approved, with fixed costs per job (excluding land) of about US$1,500. Ini-
tially, commitment and disbursement of the credit component proceeded well
ahead of schedule but political uncertainties resulted in a number of sub-
project cancellations and extension of the closing date to December 31, 1985
when $900,000 of unutilized technical assistance funds were cancelled. Major
subsectors financed were: agro-industries, construction and building
materials, and light engineering. Random samples of subprojects indicate
that most are o'perating without notable technical difficulties. Given the
inexperience of Lhe PCTs and NDB in SMI term lending operations overall
colLection rates of 77% were very satisfactory. As of June 30, 1987 a hard
core of arrears of principal and interest und..r SMI I accounted for Rs 104
million (S$3.6 million) or 86% of the remaining portfolio balance of Rs 120
million (US$4.2 million). Efforts by the PCIs and IDA have contained the
arrears and detailed recovery programs are gradually reducing the amounts
involved. Progress under the technical and marketing service component was
slower than anticipated due to delays in locat"ig suitatle consultants,
constructing facilities and recruiting staff.
3.08    Given the rapid initial utilization of credit funds under SMI I the
objectives of SMI II (Cr. 1182-CE), approved in June 1982, were to provide
needed foreign exchange, accelerate growth and consolidate productivity
improvements in SMIs, tapping the sector's scope for value added, low-cost
employment generation and export earnings. The Project provided US$28 mil-
lion equivalent, for refinance by NDB of 80% of the SMI term loans made by
the PCIs (four commercial banks and DFCC). A US$2.0 million TA component
provided funds for (i) PCI staff training; (ii) improvements in SMI extension
services; (iii) establishinig an SMI consultancy.fund to tap local private
sector expertise in solving problems of SMIs; (iv) expansion of service
facilities for light engineering SMKs; and (v) export development including
practical consultancy and training, sales trips, policy studies and pilot
projects involving exporters and export-oriented manufacturers in key light
industrial products.



-17-
3.09    As of October 30, 1987, after a one year extension of the closing
date, 85% of the credit had been disbursed and, at the current rate of dis-
bursements of SDRs 1.0 million a month, should be fully disbursed by Decem-
ber 31, 1987. The major reasons for the slow utilization were: (i) over
cptimistic assessment of demand at the ti..ie of appraisal due to the rapid
commitment rate of SMI I; (ii) saturation of "easy" SMI subsectors in rice
milling, construction materials and other subsectors; (iii'J the political
uncertainties re.ulting from the ongoing ethnic disturbances; (iv) initial
high level of arrears under SMI I; (v) inadequate promotion of the project by
the PCI branches; and (vi) high levels of rotation of trained SMI staff.
However, since late 1985 an increase in the PCI s?reads from 5% to 7% has
made SMI II lending more competitive with PCI general industrial lending and
improved collection performance resulting from increased project supervision
on SMI II subprojects has boosted PCI confidence in the scheme. Extensive
project promotion by NDB, increasing sponsor interest in the SMI scheme,
simplification of appraisal formats, clarification of sectoral and expendi-
ture eligibility have also improved the project pipeline considerably, and
average monthly commitments are now about Rs 37 million (SDRs 1.0 million).
SDRs 7.5 million of subprojects have been approved subject to cancellation of
prior commitments. The SDRs 1.8 million TA component of SMI II is fully
committed against firm contracts/consulting agreements.
IV. IHE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.01    Objectives.  IDA's lending for industry since 1977 has been success-
ful in supporting a program of broad policy teform, upgrading financial
institutions, and improving Government institutions' systems and procedures
supporting industrial development and financing of Ihigh priority investment
projects. The proposed Project would continue this approach, focusing on
these broad themes as they affect SMI. More specifically the project would:
(i) provide needed foreign exchange for viable SMI projects, with an
emphasis on export-oriented ventures; BMR for existing enterprises;
reconstruction needs in the Northern and Eastern Provinces; and
employment generated in the high unemployment districts in the South;
(ii) continue the overall institutional development of the PCIs;
(iii) deepen IDA's dialogue with GOSL on issues affecting the efficiency of
the financial sector for industrial financing through an analysis of
the operational and financial viability of the two predominant
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); this dialogue and the support-
ing analysis should provide the basis for an agenda of actions that
could be implemented in the context of a proposed Financial Sector
Creoit in FY90;
- ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,v   g     -'.v.-    .~.   E



-18-
(iv) expand on programs to address trade and industrial policy issues,
particularly the need to improve the operational capabilities of the
Tariff Commission and to remove the constraints to export financing
and duty drawbacks for indirect exporters in the SMI sector; and
(v) continue the institutional development of SMI technical and marketing
service agencies through the provision of technical and marketing
assistance facilities to be accessed by the PCIs to assist SMIs
upgrade their technology and product quality.
4.02    In discussions with COSL, emphasis has been given to the importance
of the ongoing program- of TIPR and financial reform as they relate to SMI
operations, fucusiiag o. .ht;e aLtiolIS most feasible in an environment of
political uncertainty and severe budgetary and balance of payments con-
straints (e.g. establishing appropriate relative incentives between producing
for exports and the domestic market and productivity improvements in the
public sector). In the policy area, the Project's major focus would be on
initiating the analysis necessary to develop proposals for financial sector
reform with emphasis on measures to (i) increase the role of market forces in
the determination of interest rates; (ii) reduce intermediation costs of the
NCBs; and (iii) improve credit discipline and reduce the level of the finan-
cial systems' non-performing assets.
4.03    To meet these objectives, the cofinanced project would have the
fol lowing components:
(a) a US$29.5 million credit component for term loans to SMIs from PCIs
with subproject review and partial refinance by the SMI Fund. The
component would include co-financing of US$14.5 million from ADB;
and
(b) A US$5.5 million technical assistance component, inclusive of
US$500,000 from ADB, to provide:
(i)   training and consultancy assistance for NDB and the PCIs, to
improve term lending operations;
(ii)  technical assistance to the NCBs to review their operations and
develop a program of actions to improve their operating
efficiency;
(iii) support for SMI export promotion development programs, includ-
ing consultancy and training, sales trips, policy studies, and
pilot projects involving exporters and manufacturers in key
light industrial groups;
-  - -   -    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-19-
(iv)  establishment of a technical assistanze facility to make
greater use of private sector know how and  lnstitutions in the
expansion of productivity services; and
(v)  support for the implementation of ongoing programs to improve
industrial efficiency, particularly of the PmiEs.
B. Institutional Structure
The Apex Agency
4.04    Under SMI It NDB, which was established in 1979, was selected as the
apex institution to operate an SMI refinancing f'und to recycle the repayments
from subloans under SMI I and subsequent SMI operations. The Fund was main-
tained by NDB's SMIl department which also carried out the administration and
reporting requirements. By August 31, 1987, Rs 1.07 billion (US$37.5 mil-
lion) of refinancing has been approved for 3,680 projects and about Rs 580
million (US$20.4 million) disbursed. Under SMI III NDB would continue to
administer the Fund as the apex agency for SMI operations and the signing of
a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between GOSL and NDB would
be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. As under SMI I and II,
separate accounts would be maintained by NDB for the Fund and a separate
review of the Fund's utilization would be carried out annually by the Auditor
General as part of his review of NDB's overall operations.
4.05    NDB/SMI Fund Organization and Staffing.  NDB's SMI operations are
organized into six main sections. The Analysis and Review Section reviews
PCIs' appraisals and refinance applications. The Reporting and Liaison
Section prepares periodic reports on the credit institutions' lending, super-
vision and collection performance. The Finance and Disbursement Section
disburses refinance, collects repayments, administers SMI project funds for
the technical service components and maintains accounts.  Three other sec-
tions are responsible for monitoring and supervision, training, and subsector
analysis.  Professional staff consist of a manager, six section heads, six
analysts and nine other officers. However, NDB has had some difficulty
recruiting and retaining senior staff due to shortages of experienced staff
in Sri Lanka. Despite staffing problems and higher than expected refinance
activity, NDB's performance under SMI I and II has been good. As
anticipated, the emphasis has been on developing procedures, reviewing
refinance applications, and upgrading PCIs' appraisal standards through
formalized training programs. NDB has also made subproject review more
systematic by: establishing norms for key aspects of appraisal, including
appropriate levels of permanent working capital, land, and buildings; prepar-
ing subsector analyses to avoid overinvestment and to identify market oppor-
tunities;and inetiain oucsfap
7~~~~(v   estalismen  ofatcnclassaefclt   omk



-20-
4.06    The Policy and Strategy Statement for the SMI Fund would be discussed
and agreed during negotiations. The Statement would specify the Fund's
objectives, function, organization and staffing, work program and reporting
requirements under the proposed project. The revised Policy and Strategy
Statement would be cleared by GOSL prior to Board Presentation and any future
modification would require prior GOSL/IDA/ADB approval.
4.07    Although NDB's overall performance has been satisfactory, analysis of
its operations for FY84-FY8b and FY87 year to date indicates that it faces
some potential probleriLr in four inter-related areas affecting profitability:
operating costs, portfolio infection, cost of borrowing and staff produc-
tivity. In the area of profitability, net profits as a return of capital
have declined from 11% (FY84) to 9.3% (FY86), while net profits as a percpnt-
age of average total assets have fallen from 7% (FY84) to 4.7% (FY86).
Operating costs as a percentage of average loan portfolio are high at 1.9%.
In the area of portfolio infection arrears of principal and interest have
increased from 10.4% (FY84) to 12.4% (FY86). To address these weaknesses and
to develop appropriate remedial measures, a review of NDB's strategies and
operational plans is being undertaken by expatriate consultants funded under
IDP II to develop new operating objectives for NDB. The terms of reference
focus on analyzing NDB's present operations and determining its future in the
financial system. A detailed analysis of NDB's overall operations is con-
tained in the Project File.
ParLticipating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
4.08    Trhe Participating Credit Institutions.  The implementation of the
first two SMI projects by the PCIs, with the assistance of NDB, has demon-
strated PCI capability for selection of suitable project sponsors and for
appraising and supervising SMI subprojects. Subject to fulfilling the condi-
tions of participation (paras. 4.09-4.10), the five PCIs participating under
SMI II 1/ would continue to be the PCIs responsible for appraisal, supervi-
sion and collection of subloans under the proposed project, although any
financial institution meeting the conditions of participation could apply to
participate. A summary of PCI performance under SMI I and II is given in
Annex 4, and detailed reviews are contained on the Project File.
4.09    Eligibiligy Criteria.  As a condition for participation in the
Project each PCI is required to have an appropriate level of SMI operational
staff. These levels were agreed during negotiation. Based upon a review of
present staffing, the number of SMI Fund/PCI staff to receive foreign and
local training under SMI III were also agreed during negotiations. Funding
for foreign training is available under SMI II. SMI III's technical assis-
tance component includes provisions for local and overseas training of SMI
Fund/PCI utaff, on-the-job training of Fund/PCI staff in project review and
supervision (para. 4.19).
1/ These are the Bank of Ceylon, Commercial Bank of Ceylon, Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon, Hatton National Bank and the People'
Bank.



-21-
4.10    During negotiations it was agreed with GOSL and NDB that each PCI
would be required to achieve and maintain, within an agreed timetable, a
minimum annual and cumulative collection level under SMI II And any sub-
sequent IDA financed projects of at least 70% of principal amounts due on
loans. The maximum portfolio infection level should not exceed 20%.
Achievement of targets would be reviewed semi-annually by ADB and IDA. Sub-
loan authorizations under the project would be suspended until a PCI has
taken specific steps to address its collection and arrears problem satisfac-
tory to the Association. As of October 30, 1987 only the CBOC had not met
the collection and portfolio infection criteria. As a condition of effec-
tiveness at least two PCIs should have established their eligibility to
participate in the project by meeting the conditions noted above and by
signing participation agreements with NDB.
4.11    Associated Participating Institutions.  Under SMI II, the Regional
Rural Development Banks (RRDBs) participated in the training programs run by
NCB; it is proposed that this association should continue. In the area of
project lending, the RRDBs could participate in the Project subject to meet-
ing the conditions of participation and project eligibility noted in
paras. 4.09-4.10.  However, given the nature of the RRDBs' operations in both
type and size, it is unlikely that they would participate to any significant
extent.  More appropriately their financing requirements, which are
predominantly for local currency working capital, would be provided by the
CBSL's Rural Credit Department. The recently established Investment and
Credit Bank would also be eligible to participate in the project as an
associated institution.  After a year of operations its performance would be
reviewed and if satisfactory it would be graduated to full participation
status.
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.12    The costs of the proposed project are estimated at US$61 million, of
which IDA would finance US$20 million, or about 32.5%. IDA financing would
be used for the subloan component for SMI subprojects and for TA. On
average, sponsors would contribute about 25% of subproject costs; PCIs 37.5%,
and IDA/ADB 37.5%. The estimated costs and detailed financing plan are shown
below:
_R~~~~~~~I: 



-22-
Estimated Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    % of
(Rs Million)----   ----(U$ Million)-----    Total
Subproject Investment         484.5   840.7   1,325.2   17.0    29.5    46.5         63.5
Technical Assistance:
Financial Sector Efficiency   31.4    65.6         96.9    1.1      2.3      3.4     68
Export Promotion                14.3    17.1       31.4    0.5      0.6      1.1     55
SMI Technical Assistance
Facility                     11.3    14.3        25.5    0.4      0.5      0.9     56
Improving Industrial
Efficiency                   28.5    59.8        88.4    1.0      2.1      3.1     68
Total Project Cost             570.0   997.5   1,567.5   20.0    35.0    55.0        63.5
Financing Plan
ADB                                    427.5      427.5      -     15.0    15.0       2.35
GOSL                            57.0               57.0    2.0       -       2.0
PCIs                          228.0               228.0    8.0       -       8.0
Sub borrowers                 285.0               285.0   10.0       -      10.0
IDA                              -     570.0      570.0            20.0    20.0      36.5
570.0   997.5   1,567.5   20.0    35.0    55.0        63.5
D.  The Credit Component
Funding
4.13   An estimate of potential demand for financing by SMIs has been made
based on conservative assumptions regarding the rate of growth of the sector
(5% p.a.), the incremental capital/output ratio and permanent working capital
requirements. Taking these into account and anticipating levels of interna-
tional and domestic inflation, total investment requirements by SMIs for
FY88-FY90 is estimated at US$150 million. However, based on past SMI I and
II operations, the PCIs will only provide about 50% of these needs from their
own resources and will need to mobilize the balance from multilateral agen-
cies and from the project sponsors. The proposed IDA project is part of the
mobilized funds with US$15.0 million for subproject financing and US$5.0
million for technical assistance. An additional US$14.5 million for sub-
project financing, and US$500,000 for technical assistance would be provided
by ADB through co-financing.
*                                          -g           



-23-
Project Eligibility
4.14    Subprojects eligible for refinance, as under SMI II, would involve
BMR, or expansion of private or cooperative enterprises engaged in manufac-
turing, mining, construction, agro-industry, fish processing, handicraft
production or industrial services e.g. transport and other services which
are part of an industrial enterprise; repair workshops and other industrial
services which add value to a product; and export enterprises with direct
involvement in organizing the decentralized production base. All subprojects
would need to be financially viable, and PCIs would continue to assess
whether a subproject would improve quality, price competitiveness, or produc-
tion of goods for which demand has been established. PCIs will calculate
ERRs on an agreed sample of all subprojects with subloans between Rs 2-Rs 4
million or producing products with a nominal tariff protection level of 40%
or more. The eligible ERR threshold would be 15%. The PCIs will also incor-
porate simple indicators of economic impact in their subproject appraisals,
including expected fixed costs per job and percentage of raw materials of
local origin. For more common subprojects the PCIs will use standard project
profiles for reference. SMI Fund staff would carry out subsector analysis on
product group economic viability.
Credit Guarantee Scheme
4.15    The CBSL's SMI Credit Guarantee Scheme established under SMI I would
continue to provide partial coverage of eligible SMI subloans. To encourage
the PCIs to reduce collateral requirements coverage would be restricted to
subloans refinanced under the SMI Projects with preference given to those
subloans without acceptable alternative collateral. Guarantee premiums,
which would come from the PCIs' spreads, would be 1% of the amount guaran-
teed. !/ To give a high degree of coverage for high risk, small loans it is
proposed that, subject to a review of the Scheme's present operation and cash
flows to be completed by June 30, 1988, coverage up to a maximum of Rs 1.6
million, would be provided as follows:
(i) 80% of subloans for subloans below Rs 2.0 million;
(ii) 60% of subloans for subloans between Rs 2.0 million and Rs 3.0 mil-
lion; and
(iii) 40% of subloans for subloans between Rs 3.0 million and Rs 4.0 mil-
lion.
1/ The premium would be adjusted, if needed, to reflect default perfor-
mance,



-24-
4.16     Under SMI I and II granting of CBSL Credit Guarantee coverage was
automatic upon subproject approval by NDB. This removed the right of rejec-
tion by the CBSL which was liable for a percentage of project losses. An
element of CBSL participation in the approval process should exist, and under
SMI III, CBSL will carry out an ex post review of credit guarantee proposals
on a random sample basis. Where appraisal standards have not been met the
PCIs will be advised accordingly. If, after three cautions, the weakness is
not rectified the PCI would be declared ineligible for coverage. On exhaus-
tion of reasonable legal action by PCIs to recover overdue payments, claims
for losses would be finalized by the CBSL within 90 days of submission by the
PCIs.
E.  The Technical Assistance %p_nent
Technical Assistance
4.17    The technical assistance component of SMI II provides funding for
SMI service facilities, process and product development, training, a sub-
contracting exchange, and general promotion and extension services. The
programs have now become operational and the combined TA of US$5.5 million
under the proposed project would build on this foundation to focus on finan-
cial sector efficiency, SMI marketing assistance, and SMI technology.
Specifically the Project would provide:
(i) US$500,000 for SMI systems improvements and the training of NDB and
PCI SMI staff;
(ii) US$1.5 million for the review and implementation of agreed recommen-
dations relating to the operating system and procedures of the BOC
and PB;
(iii) US$250,000 for assistance to the CBSL Lo upgrade its Banking supervi-
sion capabilities, particularly in the area of computerized monitor-
ing;
(iv) US$650,000 (inclusive of US$500,000 from ADB) for export promotion
programs including extension of export credit and duty drawback
facilities to indirect exporters, and a review of the possible use of
transferable tax credits;
(v) US$500,000 for short term technical and productivity improvement
assistance to SMI units; and
(vi) US$2.1 million to assist with the improvement of the efficiency of
the industrial sector (particularly the PMEs), through further trade
and industrial policy reform.



-25-
4.18    TOR and implementation timetables for the various studies were agreed
with GOSL/PCIs during negotiations and the selection of consultants would
follow the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Execution of the various studies would be monitored by IDA/ADB during the
course of supervision missions and all programs would be subject to an annual
operational review.
Improving Financial Sector Efficiency
4.19    Under SMI I and II, funds were provided to the SMI Fund/PCIs to
assist them in building their capability for project financing through staff
training, systems improvement and subsector analysis This assistance would
continue; approximately US$500,000 would be provided to extend technical
assistance to the SMI Fund/PCIs for training of regional and branch office
staff and to the CBSL for training of staff in the Development Finance
Department associated with the credit guarantee scheme. During negotiations
agreement was reached with GOSL, NDB and CBSL on the detailed training
programs for FY88-FY90 consisting of basic programs for staff new to project
financing, an advanced program for more senior staff and overseas training
for key management personnel.
4.20    Despite substantial improvements in recent years, there are a number
of areas where structural and operational shortcomings within the financial
sector need to be addressed. The joint IMF/IBRD Financial Sector Mission of
June 1986 identified weakness in the adequacy and effectiveness of CBSL
supervision and unacceptable high NCB operating costs expressed as a percent-
age of total assets. The NCB's asset portfolios are also suspect due to the
high level of non performing investments. The impact of BTT, reserve
requirements, high operational costs and high levels of non performing assets
is reflected in the high spreads (6%-8%) charged on NCB transactions. Thus
their inefficiences become a cost to the economy as a whole. A detailed
review of the NCB's operations, particularly the level of portfolio infection
and collections is now mandatory, and under the proposed project technical
assistance would be made available to carry out the reviews necessary. The
Terms of Reference (TOR)--Annex 5--for these were agreed with GOSL and the
NCBs prior to negotiations and US$1.5 million would be provided to cover the
cost of the assistance. In addition, to evaluate and monitor the performance
improvement prografr in the NCBs, technical assistance is proposed for the
CBSL Banking Supervision Department to improve its capabilities by upgrading
its performance monitoring and evaluation systems. The estimated cost of
this assistance is US$250,000. Given their close involvement with the Bank-
ing Supervision Department and the need for special technical skills to
implement the performance and evaluation systems, it was agreed with
GOSL/CBSL that the IMF would supervise the implementation of this component
on behalf of IDA,
___  _tb_X                           _



-26-
Export Promotion
4.21    Policy and Procedural Reform.  As noted in para. 2.05, GOSL has made
considerable efforts to provide incentives for export oriented industries.
However, these measures' effectiveness since 1977 has been offset by
appreciation of the real value of the rupee and cumbersome procedural arran-
gements to access the incentives. For large exporters the procedural bot-
tlenecks are not insurmountable, but for small enterprises access is not cost
effective. The benefits of the incentive structure, particularly export
credit and duty drawbacks, are also limited, applying only to direct
exporters. This stifles the growth of many ancilliary industries which
should be developing to support key direct exporters (e.g. the garment
industry). COSL has recognized the need to remove these constraints and, in
parallel with implementation of the recommendatiows of the Committee on
Export Incentives, proposes to utilize technical assistance to address these
issues. TOR (Annex 6) for consultants to be appointed within six months of
credit effectiveness to provide technical assistance to appropriate govern-
ment agencies and the PCIs to extend export credit and duty drawback
facilities to indirect exporters were agreed prior to negotiations. A total
of US$150,000 would be provided for the 12-15 consultant months of assistance
anticipated and IDA would review the findings/progress of the assistance
during project supervision and the annual project review.
4.22    Export Marketing.  In addition to reviewing the access of direct and
indirect exports to credit and duty drawback facilities, GOSL would also
provide technical assistance to support direct and indirect export marketing
moves (Annex 7). Detailed policies and procedures for this assistance would
be agreed during negotiations. The TA which would be managed by EDB will
concentrate on tI.e following enterprise level marketing activities:  (a) desk
market research; (b) overseas field market research, to formulate a firm's
export marketing strategy for target markets; (c) minor product adaptation,
when indicated as required by market research; (d) overseas travel by company
executives, limited to purposes directly related to a properly researched
marketing strategy; (e) product inspection services, to reinforce a company's
claims of reliable product quality; and (f) training related to export
marketing. In addition to company-level measures, support will be given to
the back-up activities such as: (a) strengthening service supply from
management consultants and other groups in Sri Lanka; (b) provision of trade
information in small product-specific libraries, mainly run by subsector
industry associations; (c) group marketing activities, either when SMIs
undertake eligible activities as a group, or when new marketing information
is collected on behalf of a subsector and published, to lead to
cost-effective firm-level market research. Support will be for costs of
technical and advisory services and travel expenses; US$500,000 would be made
available to the EDB from the ADB, to meet 50% of the cost of eligible expen-
ditures. This support for market development would represent a very small
percentage of the total costs of an exported product and would not run
counter to Article 14 of the GATT Code on Subsidies and Countervailing
Duties.



-27-
SMI Technical Assistance Facility (TAF)
4.23    During the supervision of ongoing SMI Projects and preparation for
the proposed project, a correlation was found between successful project
implementation and the provision of technical assistance to SMI units. If
the agreements are properly structured, firms benefit from access to
proprietary design, changing process improvements, modern management methods,
and market access through brand image and direLt marketing efforts.
4.24    To develop sources of technical services in the private sector and to
generate demand-oriented technology and productivity upgrading proposals, a
SMI technical assistance facility (TAF) of US$500,000 would be established.
Tne general scope and procedures for the use of the facility were agreed with
GOSL during negotiations (Annex 8). The TAF would provide pcrtial grants
through the PCIs to existing or potential SMI entrepreneurs to finance
eligible and viable "technology subprojects" such as consulting services,
training programs, collaboration packaging or small R&D projects which either
introduce new or improved existing technology in private industry. The TAF
would provide part of subproject costs. with the balance paid by the sponsor-
ing SMI.  It is estimated that TA requ  ;s from individual SMI sponsors
woul.d involve about 50-100 foreign consultant-months at US$10,000 p.m. and
100 local consultant-months at US$1,000 p.m. inclusive of salary, costs,
fees, travel and subsistence. Initially, cost sharing would be assessed on a
case by case basis and be reviewed after some experience has been gained;
however, it is ant,cipated that the cost sharing basis will be 50:50.  The
TAF would be administered by NDB which would be responsible for developing
detailed policies and procedures, which would be agreed during negotiations,
promoting SMI operations, soliciting proposals from private industry,
appraising the eligibility and viability of each subproject, submitting
approved proposals for IDA approval, disbursing the funds and supervising the
subprojects.
Policy Coordination
4.25    On effectiveness of the Project, the role of the SMI Coordinating
Committee established under SMI II would change from that of subproject
coordination to policy review. To achieve this vital role the Committee
would be restructured to include the Secretary, MISA (Chairman), the
Secretaries, MTI and MRID (or their designated representatives), repre-
sentatives from NDB and CBSL and representatives from the SMI Chamber of
Commerce. The Committee would receive the quarterly reports prepared by the
SMI a?und, examine operational or coordination problems, and make recommenda-
tions to COSL on improving efficiency in policy implementation. However,
implementing agencies would channel authorization requests and reimbursement
claims for expenditures directly through NDB for reimbursement/disbursement
from a Special Account (para. 5.08) or to IDA; in exceptional circumstances
NDB could provide bridge financing from the SMI Fund for expenditures under
the Technical Assistance Components. As under SMI II, the implementing
agencies would be expected to carry out their specific activities and respon-
sibilities sutonomously, within the framework and objectives, guidelines and
procedures agreed between GOSL and IDA under the Credit and Subsidiary Loan
agreements.
.-:.- 
6             ~~~~~~-wfie> 



-28-
V. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
5.01    Lending Arrangements.  The proposed credit of SDRs 15.7 million
(about US$20 million equivalent), including the lending component of US$15.0
million equivalent and a technical assistance component of US$5.0 million
equivalent, would be made to COSL on standard IDA terms and conditions, with
40 years maturity. Based on past experience with similar projects as
reflected in the relevant standard disbursement profile, the Credit is
expected to be fully disbursed in about six years (Annex 9). GOSL would
onlend the proceeds of the credit component to NDB, to refinance eligible SMI
subloans made by the PCIs on terms and conditions outlined in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, a draft of which was agreed in substance during nego-
tiations. COSL would onlend to NDB in Rupees. Given the unsophisticated
nature of the sub-borrowers, the small size of many of the sub-loans, the
controlled foreign exchange market and the margin between the cost of funds
and the onlending rate to NDB, COSL will bear the foreign exchange risks on
repayments to IDA. NDB would pay interest to COSL on the Rupee amounts of
the credit component disbursed and outstanding; repayment to GOSL for the
lending component would be on the basis of a composite amortization schedule
reflecting the actual mix of fixed and variable subproject amortization. NDB
also would be responsible for administering disbursements for the technical
assistance component, the bulk of which would be preallocated. The proceeds
of the technical assistance component would not be repayable to GOSL, since
these are development expenditures geared to increasing sectoral efficiency,
productivity, output and exports.
5.02    Lending Terms.  The initial onlending rate from COSL to NDB would be
the AWPR at the time of credit effectiveness less an initial spread of 7%
which is reasonable in view of medium-term inflation projection of 8%-10% for
the next three years (para. 2.12) and rates being charged by the commercial
banks (14%-24Z). The onlending rate from NDB to the PCIs would be 6% below
the AWPR at the time of effectiveness which would give NDB a spread of one
percent to meet the cost of SMI operations. These presently equate to 1.6%
which is borne by NDB. At the time the AWPR mechanism was established to set
the market reference rate there was no viable alternative rate. However, the
Treasary Bill Market initiated in January 1987 is reaching a level when the
Treasury Bill Rate (TBR) could become a viable and more acceptable alterna-
tive. Accordingly, during negotiations it was agreed with COSL that the
mechanism for establishing interest rates and spreads would be reviewed on
January 1 and July 1, with appropriate adjustment as necessary. The actual
interest rate to be charged to NDB and the PCIs respectively would be amended
on January 1 and July 1 to (i) reflect any significant movement in the market
reference rate, and (ii) remain positive in real terms vis-a-vis inflation
rates as reflected by the Colombo Price Index. The PCIs would charge SMI
sub-borrowers a negotiated interest rate on subloans refinanced by NDB, with
rates either fixed or variable based upon agreement between the PCI and the



-29-
sub-borrower.  Subloans on which no disbursements have been made for 12
months would be reviewed and, when appropriate, cancelled to facilitate
project completion and to promote full utilization of the project funds.  To
encourage the PCIs to become more independent in SMI financing, refinancing
of subloans would be decreased from the current 80% to 75%. This will be
subject to an ongoing review.
5.03    Reaym'mnt Terms.  NDB would repay GOSL on a fixed amortization
schedule of 18 years with a five year grace period. The maturity for sub-
loans refinanced by NDB would be from three to ten years, with grace periods
ranging from six months to two years. As the subloan commitment period would
be about three years, repayments by the PCIs could stretch over 13 years.
However, as the average maturities of subloans would be seven years, about
US$15 million would be accumulated in the SMI Fund by 1990, the estimated
date of full commitments of the subloan component; NDB would be encouraged to
use these funds to augment SMI refinancing operations, and to cover refinanc-
ing requirements if there is a need for additional resources after full
commitment under SMI III.
5.04    Subloan Sizes and IDA Review.  Subproject eligibility would be
limited to enterprises with total fixed assets at book value, excluding owned
or leased land and buildings, valued at less than Rs 4 million prior to the
granting of a subloan (this is the current SMI definition) and which comply
with COSL's/IDA's environmental guidelines. The maximum subloan size would
be Rs 4 million (US$140,000;, although subloans above this level would be
considered by IDA on a case by case basis. Working capital financing would
be allowed only as part of a fixed investment subloan and for permanent
working capital needs since seasonal working capital financing is available
from the CBs. A minimum of 25% of subproject costs should normally be
provided by the sponsor in the form of equity to encourage sound capital
structuring, although the actual equity requirement should be determined on a
case by case basis.
5.05    About 3,650 subprojects with subloan sizes averaging about Rs 450,000
(US$15,000) would be financed. In view of the large number and relatively
small sizes of subloans, simplified review and approval procedures would be
used to limit administrative costs and processing times. The implementation
of SMI I and II by the PCIs, with the assistance of the NDB, has demonstrated
their increasing capability to select suitable project sponsors and for
appraising and supervising SMI subprojects. Thus, under the proposed
project, the PCIs will be given delegated authority of Rs 2.0 million for
subloan sanctioning (DFCC would be given full delegate authority for RS 4.0
million which is consistent with the RS 8.0 million limit approved under
Cr.1692-CE). NDB's staff would check the eligibility of subprojects, finan-
cial viability, and the adequacy of proposed subloan terms, and would perform
sample analyses to ensure that appropriate appraisal standards are being
maintained on these smaller subprojects. NDB would be given delegated
authority to approve subproject applications up to Rs 4.0 million. A sample
- - ._ <7



-30-
ex-post review of subprojects over Rs 2 million would be carried out by IDA.
It is expected that subloans of over Rs 2 million would constitute about 8%
of total subloans by number and 3G% by amount. About 80% of subprojects, by
number, are expected to be for amounts below Rs 100,000.
5.06    NDB's Contribution to the SMI Fund.  Under SMI I NDB made a capital
contribution of Rs 20 million to the SMI Fund to cover the lag between
refinance disbursements and withdrawals from IDA. As of August 31, 1987,
Rs 384 million (US$13.3 million) was available in the SMI Fund for bridge
financing purposes. Based on projected SMI commitments in FY88-FY90, no
additional capital contributions should be needed by the Fund to cover
operating requirements during the disbursement of SMI III, but NDB (has
agreed) to make additional resources available to the SMI Funu, if required.
B. Administration Procedures 1/
5.07    Procurement.  The PCIs would be responsible for ensuring that the
machinery, equipment, spare parts and initial raw material procured for SMI
subprojects are purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, due account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, quality
and reliability of the goods and availability of spare parts. Imported items
costing over US$20,000 would be procured through international shopping on
the basis of at least three price quotations, while procurement under con-
tracts of less than US$20,000 could be by direct purchase. Individual con-
tracts for the purchase of machinery, equipment or spare parts costing more
than US$100,000 would be procured through limit international bidding proce-
dures with approval of contract subject to prior review by IDA. PCIs would
be required to maintain records of the procurement methods and documents, and
to monitor the utilization of subloan funds through regular supervision
visits. For subloans of over Rs 2.0 million, or 30% of subloans by amount,
the SMI Fund would carry out a detailed review of the PCI's procurement
procedures. Based upon experience under SMI II, these procurement procedures
are considered satisfactory; NDB staff and IDA field supervision missions
would continue to review implementation of these procedures. Procurement of
goods and services under the credit and technical assistance components, as
noted below, would be in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines.
1/ Annex 10 details the contents of the Project File which includes
copies of PCI operating policies and procedures.



-31-
Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
LCB    IS    Other 1I/   Total
Subproject Inves':ment             1.5    1.5   12.0          15.0
Technical Assistance                              5.0          5e0
1.o5    e.5   17.0        20.0
5.08    Disbursement Procedures.  IDA would initially reimburse 75% of
eligible SMI .ubloan expenditure. With the large number and small amounts
involved in the subloan operations, normal procedures of disbursing against
documented expenditures on individual subproject accounts would be inap-
propriate for most subprojects. To facilitate disbursements IDA would dis-
burse on the basis of certified statements of refinancing for expenditures
incurred up to 120 days prior to the refinance application, except during the
bridge firancing period (para. 5.10). The documentation would be retained by
NDB for inspection during IDA's periodic supervision missions. All state-
ments of expenditure, together with supporting documentation, would be
audited annually. Prior authorization by IDA for goods and services under
the technical assistance components would be required, and IDA would dis-
burse: (a) 100% of expenditures for foreign and local consultants and train-
ing; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment imported directly and of
the ex factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and (c) 80% of expen-
ditures for other equipment procured locally. Requests for IDA disbursement
would be fully documented. Withdrawal applications would be channelled
through NDB. To facilitate disbursement of TA charges and payment applica-
tions of less than US$250,0009 GOSL/IDA would establish a Special Account
equivalent to four months of expenditure (i.e. about SDRs 1.0 million)
available to the PCIs and implementing agencies on a first come first served
basis. As noted above, IDA would reimburse expenditures incurred up to 120
days prior to receipt of the application by NDB.
5.09    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  NDB would submit quarterly reports
to GOSL/MOFP and IDA on the SI Fund's lending activities, as well as
progress under the technical assistance components. The main report would be
an aggregation of the PCIs' quarterly reports which would cover SMI staffing,
trdining, lending, supervision, collection and arrears performance, and
portfolio data.  TA reports would summarize: implementation progress on
1/ Given the small size of SMI procurement, most of which are between
US$1,000-US$2,000, international shopping or LCB is not an appropriate
requirement. Procurement is made from local suppliers on the basis of
three quotations.



-32-
aspects outlined in agreed action programs; steps to be taken during the next
quarter; and estimates of impact of activities on employment, proluctivity
and exports. In addition, NDB would submit a quarterly report on: SMI Fund
refinancing and relative activities; SKI staffing; and evaluation of charac-
teristics of SMI sub-borrowers and impact of subprojects. Reports would have
a form and content satisfactory to IDA and be accompanied by an overall
review of the SMI sector in Sri Lanka. Quarterly reports would be submitted
within 45 days of quarter end. A separate statement of account for the SMI
Fund would be audited annually by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka or a
designated private auditing firm, which would submit a report in a form
satisfactory to IDA not later than four months after the close of each fiscal
year; project accounts of each implementing agency would also be audited. If
the Auditor General designates a private auditing firm, the firm would need
to be satisfactory Lo IDA and would be selected for at least the duration of
the project to ensure continuity. Within six months of completion of the
Project COSL/NDB shall prepare a draft Project Completion Report conforming
to IDA guidelines.
5.10    Bridge Financhng.  Closure of the subloan component of Credit 1182-CE
is scheduled for December 31, 1987 at which time NDB, through the SMI Fund,
would provide bridge funding to cover SMI refinancing requirements until the
expected credit effectiveness in February/March 1988. Specific arrangements
for IDA retroactive financing are not necessary as eligible disbursements
made by the implementing agencies after Credit signing are automatically
eligible for IDA disbursements once the Credit is made effective.
C. Co-Financing _/
5.11    Preparation of the proposed project has been coordinated closely with
AOB which has proposed a parallel loan of US$15.0 million inclusive of a
technical assistance component of US$500,000. Preparation, appraisal and
negotiations were carried out jointly with ADB, and ADB has provided full
support for the conditionality of the IDA project and indeed in the broader
areas of trade and industrial and financial sector reform. Both projects
feature cross-conditionality. Disbursement would be funded proportionately
from the ADB/IDA credit component.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
5.12    Benefits,  The proposed project would further support GOSL's efforts
to carry out its far-reaching program of TIPR through through incremental,
but significant, action in the areas of tariff administration, export promo-
tion, and science and technology transfer. The project would also support
COSL's/CBSL'S efforts to improve the efficiency of the financial sector and
1/ A copy of the ADB project document is held on the Project File.



-33-
address key constraints to more rapid development of SMIs. Term loans would
be provided to about 3,650 new and existing enterprises meeting a portion of
this sector's financing gap and further strengthening PCIs' SMI term lending
operations. The subprojects financed are expected to result in about 31,400
new jobs, with incremental fixed investments (including buildings and equip-
ment btut excluding land) per job of about US$1,750. 1/ The average subloan
size is expected to be about Rs 450,000 (US$15,000).  About 60% of the credit
is expected to be channelled to subloans of below Rs 1 million (US$34,000);
about 20% for subloans of Rs 1-2 million to (US$34,000-US$70,000); and 20%
for subloans from Rs 2-4 million (US$70,000-US$140,000). Major SMI subsec-
tors are expected to be: agro-industries; metal products; building materials
and consLruction contractors. Promotional and technical services provided
under SMI I and II and su?plemented under the proposed project also should
result in increased financing of: export-oriented SMIs in rubber products,
handloom textiles, gem cutting and polishing; and engineering subcontractors
linked to larger public and private industries. Subproject3 above the free
limit or with more than a 40% nominal tariff protection level would be sub-
ject to economic analysis with a minimum 15% ERR eligibility threshold.
5.13    Benefits from the technical assistance components are more difficult
to quantify. Extension of export credit and duty drawback facilities to
indirect exports should provide an impetus to the development of ancilliary
export related industries. The Export Marketing component would build on the
programs of the EDB financed under SMI II and is expected to result in
increased, diversified exports and value-added among key light industrial
products. Action to adapt products, upgrade skills, increase quality con-
trol, and promote exports should result in short- and medium-term increases
in exports, employment and earnings. With the TAF local private sector know
how would be tapped in addressing the technical problems of 400 to 500 SMIs,
in areas which require specialized skills. Also, the TAF would further
encourage establishment of private sector firms specializing in consultancy
to SMI; increase appreciation by small entrepreneurs of the benefit of tech-
nology transfer; and enable the SMIs to tap needed skills not readily avail-
able within their own operations.
5.14    Risks.  The success of the lending component would depend on the
continued effective operation by NDB of the SMI Fund. Satisfactory policies,
procedures and standards for the operation of the Fund have been established
on the basis of experience; the key will be NDB's ability to retain qualified
staff and provide training to enable expanded refinance operations, while
increasing attention to monitoring and supervision of PCIs' SMI operations.
1/  This fixed cost per job figure is somewhat higher than the US$1,500
for subprojects approved under the SMI I and II, since the larger
average subproject size and capital goods inflation are expected to
result in somewhat h.gher fixed investments per job.
L 



-34-
A further risk is that individual PCIs, particularly the BOC and PB, may be
unable to meet their staffing commitments and, therefore, be incapable of
improving appraisal standards in processing the large volume of applications
expected and devoting sufficient attention to subproject supervision. Under
the proposed Project, minimum trained staff would be a condition of par-
ticipation in the project; also, each PCIs Board would be required to reaf-
firm its commitment to allocate additional SMI staff as required. With
strong senior management commitment, adequa*< staffing can be provided
through active deployment and training. Another risk associated with the
demand for SMI credit is that PCIs may continue to impose high collateral
requirements, thereby excluding some borrowers with viable SMI projects. This
problem should be addressed by the increased Credit Guarantee coverage and by
requiring a clear statement of collateral policy by each PCI, with close
monitoring by NDB.
5.15    SMI III would build on organizational arrangements and capabilities
developed under SMI I and II. However, che credit, technical and marketing
component would require continued improvements in the services of the PCIs,
and frequent IDA supervision visits would continue to be important.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA, GOSL and NDB
on:
(i) conditions of PCI participation, including collection ratios for
FY88-FY90, portfolio infection levels, and staffing (paras.
4.09-4.10).
(ii) TOR and implementation timetables for various studies and on the
annual review of the technical assistance components (para. 4.18):
(iii) detailed policies of the Export Marketing fund (para. 4.22) and the
SMI Technical Assistance Facility (para. 4.24);
(iv) the initial use of the AWPR as the market reference rate for project
operations and to the semi annual review of the mechanism for estab-
lishing interest rates and spreads (para. 5.02);
(v)  the semi. annual adjustment on January 1 and July 1 of interest rates
and spreads based on the mechanism for interest rate determination
to:
(a) reflect any significant movement in the market reference rate;
and



-35-
(b) remain positive in real terms vis-a-vis inflation as reflected
by the Colombo Price Index (para. 5.02).
(vi) onlending terms, conditions, margins, subproject eligibility
criteria, and refinance arrangements (paras. 5.02-5.04);
(vii) NDB's commitment to provide additional finance for the operating
costs of the SMI Fund, if needed (para. 5.06); and
(viii) procedures for procurement, disbursement, subproject review, periodic
reporting, accounting and auditing (paras. 5.07-5.09).
6.02    During negotiations, drafts of the following documents were agreed:
(i) PCI staff training programs for FY88-FY90 (para. 4.10).
(ii) subsidi&.y loan agreement between GOSL and NDB (para. 5.01); and
(iii) participation agreements between NDB and the PCIs (para. 5.01).
6.03    The following conditions should be met prior to credit effectiveness:
(i) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
COSL and NDB (para. 4.04); and
tii) signing of participation agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between
NDB/SMI Fund and at least two eligible PCIs (para. 4.10).
6.04    With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed Project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a development Credit of SDRs 15.7 million
(US$20 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
p                         _Mm



-36-
ANNEX 1
SRI LANKA
THE THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI1 III) PROJECT
OUTLINE--GOSL SMI DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Background
1.      Manufacturing industries consist of public sector corporations,
registered private factories comprised mostly of small and medium enterprises
whose plant and equipmenit is under Rs 1 million in value, !/ and a large
number of unregistered small and cottage industries. In what follows the
Rs I milLion cut-off point is used to define "small" industries. While
issues discussed below may be common to all industrial enterprises, they are
of particular importance in constraining the performance of small industries.
Within this small industry group, however, other classifications based on
problems pecuLiar to or strongly affecting various sub-groups, could be made.
Thus it is possible to distinguish between medium and small enterprises in
the organized sector and small and cottage level units, either self-owned or
with less than five employees, in the informal, unorganized industrial sec-
tor.
2.      Problems of particular importance to small scale industries (SSIs)
are: inadequate access to and the often high cost of credit; poor manageriaL
skills in corporate management, finance, project preparation, marketing and
production; associated inadequate technology and inefficient use of
machinery; in some instances, a regulatory or policy environment which unin-
tentionally favors larger enterprise units; and the lack of economies of
scale in purchasing inputs. The result is generally low productivity,
revealed in lower average value added and output level per employee and less
capital per worker.
1/  Under IDA's SMI Projects small and medium industries are defined as
those having a total invesrment (including land) of noc more than
Rs 8.0 million (US$280,000).



-37-
ANNEX 1
3.      Recognizing the importance of SSIs in contributing to value added and
employment and their potential for generating foreign exchange, the strategic
objective of the Government should be not to discriminate in favor of such
enterprises compared with other manufacturing establishments, but to remove
impediments to their successful functioning, to improve their prospects by
encouraging the development of skill acquisition and knowledge of technology
and, particularly in the case of establishments in the informal unorganized
sector, to bring them into the mainstream of modern industrial development.
4.      In discussing the issues below and in developing a strategy and
policies to deal with them, in many instances it is the entire manufacturing
sector not only SSIs which would benefit. In the case of the SSIs, however,
an integrated approach to the underlying problems is strongly advocated
because the reforms are mutually reinforcing. To be successful, reform
measures should have well defined objectives consistent with the overall
industrial development strategy, there should be a sound institutional base
for implementation with adequate physical manpower and financial resources,
and an effective coordinating structure to harmonize the inputs of implement-
ing organizations.
Financial Requirements
5.      One major issue concerns the onerous collateral requirements of the
commercial banks. There are a number of reasons for this which have to do
with genuine risk apprehensions of bankers, given their existing information
base, the conservative attitude of bankers to industrial finance which has to
do with their lack of expertize and training in the latter, and legal con-
straints which affect the type of collateral which may be used, and the
process of debt recovery.
6.      A number of measures are contemplated to improve this financial
situation. First, a credit information office should be established, owned
and supported by the banking system, to furnish credit reports on request to
financial institutions. Participation by commercial banks should be man-
datory. Information to be systematically collected and processed should
include details about ownership, capitalization, banker's estimate of credit
availability, business record including sales, costs, profits, exports, etc.,
balance sheet information concerning assets and liabilities, information
about related companies, business associates and other data relevant to
credit standing. The credit office should also compile a data base on
defaulters. While initially only commercial banks might be involved, the
facility could be expanded subsequently to include other financial institu-
tions. The primary beneficiaries of such a development might be credit users
who, with banks not currently sharing credit information, are penalized
because of those who have defaulted on past loans. It should be noted that
such credit information is readily available in developed industrial
societies. A by-product would be to increase the credit consciousness of
Sri Lankan businessmen.



-38-
ANNEX 1
7.      Secondly, there are a number of legal constraints inhibiting access
to finance by SSIs in particular. A freehold title to land is required to
mortgage not only the land, but the buildings, plant and equipment situated
on the land. Consideration should be given to establishing a title insurance
scheme whereby land with disputed title, leased iand with disputed title, and
encroached crown land where occupation has been prolonged, could have the
title insured and become eligible for collateral.
8.      An associated problem is that the procedures to be fullowed under the
Crown Land Ordinance are excessively time consuming, particularly for the
hypothecation or mortgage of leased crown land to another party. An amend-
ment to the Crown Land Ordinance should be made to give the Commissioner of
Lands discretionary power to authorize hypothecation or mortgaging to
suitable parties.
9.      The non interest cost of borrowing funds is considerable.  A stamp
duty of 1% is payable on mortgages; stamp duty is payable on a pledge loan
and is paid again if the pledge loan, after a maximum of six months, is
converted to a trust receipt loan. It is suggested these stamp duties be
reduced to amounts consistent with the transaction coats involved.
10.     There are difficulties in disposing of assets in the event of
default. While the Bank of Ceylon, the People's Bank and the NDB have power
to dispose of collateral under sections 46 and 47 of the Mortgage Act, only
land mortgaged can be sold to recover debt. In law, while land mortgage
includes equipment bolted to the floor and walls of a building, if the equip-
ment is disconnected, even after the execution of a mortgage bond, it ceases
to form part of the land. An appropriate amendment to the relevant sections
of the Mortgage Act appears to be urgently required. A further problem is
that under the law a maximum interest rate of 12% applies during jurisdic-
tion. This could induce default to obtain the lower legal rate of interest.
11.     Finally, borrowers have access to a Debt Reconciliation Board.  In
practice, highly concessionary conditions have resulted from the borrower's
viewpoint. Again changes should be made in the Mortgage Act to reduce the
bias in favor of borrowers and, by requiring compliance with the terms of a
mortgage, make financiers less risk conscious.
12.     Many SSIs have to give trade credit to retailers whose collection
time could be three to four months. The latter make payment by post-dated
cheques which have no validity in law in the event of default. To protect
suppliers and facilitate their access to credit an internal bill of exchange
or legally binding promissory note should be introduced which should be
negotiable or discountable with a commercial bank prior to maturity.
13.     Another major step to increase the quantity and improve the quality
of information at the disposal of the suppliers of credit would be to improve
project identification and formulation. The decision of the Department of
Census and Statistics to conduct ten-yearly censuses and annual surveys of
manufacturing activity and the greatly improved coverage, quality and range
of information, and the intended timely processing of data will provide



-'39-
ANNEX 1
urgently needed planning information. To fully ensure its usefulness, it is
important that user requirements are kept fully in mind. To support project
preparation and evaluation by enterprises, private consultants, institutions
such as the IDB and SLBDC, the commercial banks, FIAC, GCEC and LIAC,
detailed information concerning trends in output, exports and imports, and
excess capacity should be readily available at the lower level of aggregation
consistent with the confidentiality requirements of the Census and Statistics
Act. Speedy retrieval of d.ta by institutions and banks should be assisted
by establishing computer terminal links. The IDB's ability to collect,
codify and disseminate information about enterprise level production techni-
ques and processes, and the availability of alternatives is also in urgent
need of being strengthened.
14.     A greater flow of reliable processed information on which to develop
sound project proposals is one thing. Also required is an expanded supply of
people qualified to undertake such analysis and an attitudinal change on the
part of the commercial banking fraternity to the value of it. The reluctance
of the banks to finance industrial investment has to do with their perception
of risk, which is in substantial part due to past high defaults and to an
inadequate supply of credit information. It is also a result of inexperience
in dealing with loans to industry. At issue is the need to base loans also
on the credit standing of the applicant and especially the likely
profitability of the project as well as upon the collateral offered. To
achieve this attitudinal change, in addition to better credit information, it
is urged that commercial banks establish specialized industrial finance
sections, staffed by personnel trained in the techniques of project evalua-
tion. To facilitate their task, it is also desirable that institutions such
as the IDB, SLBDC, MDB and private consultants, should greatly increase the
quality of the feasibility studies which they do on behalf of the private
sector. The reluctance of the commercial banks to rely upon their evalua-
tions seems based upon unreliable and, hence, costly past appraisals. It is
also important that a common core format be developed by the various institu-
tions involved in project appraisal, whether this be for the purpose of
obtaining a licence to manufacture or finance.
15.     There are other measures to improve the ability of the commercial
banks to service the requirements of industry. Given the legal reforms
advocated above, the banks should be encouraged to take a first or second
mortgage on land, buildings (and equipment) to cover the value of the loan.
Should this not be adequate, a lien over materials in use or personal guaran-
tees should be sought. In the case of the latter, guarantors should be
apprised early of any signs of default in order that they might bring moral
pressure to bear on the debtor. As a final resort, consideration should be
given to establishing a government-backed loan guarantee system which would
be called upon in the event of default and the above security being inade-
quate. Access to such Last resort guarantee would require the banks to
conform to minimum loan conditions. The guarantee might be financed, at
least in part, by participating banks.



-40-
ANNEX 1
16.     In their industrial finance sections, the commercial banks might
adopL the practice of making loan officers responsible for the performance of
specified loans, and to ensure that their monitoring and implementation of
the loan was as effective as possible, a conmission paid the to officers
provided the loan performance was satisfactory.
17.     The Government is urged as quickly as feasible to continue to reduce
interest rates by easing the pressures brought about by budget deficits and
by alluwing deposit and loan rates (with the possible exception of export
credit) to be freely determined by what is now a competitive commercial
banking system. The corollary of this freeing of the interest rate system,
of course, would be the discontinuing of the special refinancing facilities
which add to the cost of financial intermediation. In other words, the
thrust of the above measures, taken in conjunction with interest rate reform,
would be to greatly improve the access of manufacturers, and of small and
medium manufacturers in particular, to industrial finance at normal interest
rates (which, given the special guarantee provisions, might be lower than the
average structure of rates). This recommendation is fully consistent with
the objective of delivering an intended level of incentives to manufacturing
via the tariff and export tax credit, and not unintentionally providing
additional assistance in a discriminatory manner. It is also consistent with
the policy objective of removing constraints to the development of small and
medium scale industry but not discriminating in their favor.
18.     The range of banking activities undertaken by the development banks
needs to be expanded to make their services more effective. Other countries
have successfully involved their development finance institutions in a range
of conventional banking functions that both increase the liquidity of the
bank and enable it to provide a balanced array of services to its clients,
including accepting deposits, maintenance of current accounts, the issuing of
letters of credit, and especially the provision of working capital. This
will facilitate the provision of a package of services, including par-
ticularly working capital, required for successful project implementation.
It will also ensure comprehensive monitoring by the bank of the project.
19.     This development, which would require the NDB to open branches, would
in particular encourage greater NDB direct participation in small and medium
industry development. At the moment, it participates indirectly by
facilitating loans by five participating banks under the World Bank SMI
Projects.
20.     Steps should also be taken to expand the role of the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) by increasing its authorized and paid-up
capital to make it approximately of the same size as the NDB. The practice
of requiring commercial banks to subscribe to DFCC debentures should then be
discontinued. The additional capital should be subscribed by the Government,
the Central Bank, the state owned commercial banks, and other commercial
banks if they wished to participate. As in the case of the NDB, the DFCC
should undertake a wider range of banking activities and the recommended
freeing of interest rates should permit a sufficient spread between deposit
and loan rates to restore profits to more normal levels.



ANNEX I
21.     In the financing of small and medium scale manufacturing, priority
could be given to certain products in the case of loans to modernize equip-
ment and machinery. This would be in addition to general measures recom-
mended elsewhere to provide working capital and post-export credit to direct
and indirect exporters.  Criteria for the selection of products should
include low comparative costs, good existing export perfor ance and
prospects, and high domestic value added.  Regardless of export prospects,
such priority loans should also be made available to promote subcontracting
between small and large enterprises. It should be the responsibility of the
EDB and the IDB to identify such products and recommend them to MISA for
priority treatment by the commercial and development banks.
22.     Financial facilities should also be made available to promote
cooperatives or mergers among small scale industries. Cooperative programs
should assist small scale entei'prises (SSIs) operating in the same or related
product areas to strengthen their competitive position, to improve environ-
mental controls, to relocate plants, to make joint purchases of inputs and
sales of outputs, and to share technological and management information. The
IDB should be the lead agency in stimulating such a development to reduce
prime costs, improve technology and raise productivity. The IDB should
likewise promote, and priority banking accommodation be provided, attempts by
SSIs to merge into larger units to achieve economies of scale and to reduce
excessive competition among one another.
Other Considerations
23.     An integrated approach to the problems of SSIs has been recommended
because, while the amelioration of financial constraints is of primary impor-
tance in successful SSI development, it will not suffice if unaccompanied by
the upgrading of management and technical capabilities. In this regard, the
activities of the IDB particularly, and of the SLBDC and SLCSB, require
strengthening by increasing the number and competence of staff concerned with
entrepreneurial development and technical assistance. Whether provided by
in-house extension services or institutional courses, these need to be under-
taken by staff who have had relevant, problem solving management experience.
In providing technical assistance the IDB should, in particular, assist in
facilitating information flows about improvements in design, product
specification, performance characteristics as well as about alternative
technologies and production processes.
24.     The subcontracting exchange of the IDB could assist marketing efforts
by better identifying parts/components and products required by other
producers, public procurement agencies and domestic and foreign consumers of
final products, and matching these requirements with potential small scale
producers. They could also assist in negotiating contracts and in providing
appropriate advice and assistance to ensure satisfactory fulfilment of con-
tracts.
i  ~~i



*                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASOHIEK 2
SRI LANKA
ThIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDSTRIES (SM1 111)
INTEREST RATE STmUCrUEi  o pi -12u
(in per nen per ennum)
31 Decemer                          118s         5802         50311        1884        l388 ess
Contral bank Rote gI                         14.0         14.0         13.0         13.0         51.0         10.0
Government Troasury Sitto
-  Primary market                        13.0         53.0          12.0         e4.0         12.0         12.0
-  Secondary market                      15.25        13.25         t2.5         14.2         52.5         12.0
Cooerc1a1 Banks
Loan Rates:
Inter Bank Call Loans                    10.0-14.0   10.0-14.5   30.0-15.0   10.0-15.0   92.0              10.0-12.0
Socured Loans ancl Ovordratts            15.0-30.0   16.0-30.0   16.0-ZO.O   17.0-30.0   17.0-20.0   94.0-58.0.
Deposit Rates:
Sowings Depoclta                          10.0-14.0   10.0-14.5   10.0-l15.0   50.0-15.0   50.0-34.0   t0.0-12.0
Time Deposits
-   6 conthe                             15.0-21.5   13.0-18.2   13.0-25.0   33.0-19.0   12.0-03.0   10.0-12.0
-  12 conths                             20.0-22.0   85.0-22.0   16.0-25.0   14.0-22.0   13.0-04.0   12.0-B3.0
Na tional Savings Bank Deposit Bales
-  Savings Deposlts                      12.0   .12.0               12.0         12.0         92.0    t     2.0
-  12-month fixed deposlts               15.0-22.0   95.0-22.0   04.0-90.0   54.0-10.0   15.0              t2.0
-  10-year Savings Certificates          51.0         13.0          tl.0         55.0         11..0       153.0
LandRnt  Rates of Credit lnstitutions
State Mortgage ana Investment Sank    12.0-24.0   12.0-24.0   12.0-24.0   12.0-24.0   10.0-17.0   10.0-14.0
-  DFCC                                  17.0          17.0         34.0         t4.0         14.0         14.0
-  "Do                                   31.0          97.0         14.0         14.0         34.0         14.0
a/  The rate charged by the Central Sank an advances to comerclal banks for thole  teqarory
Siqutdtty purposaa.



-43-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SHI III) PROJECT
SUBPROJECT PROFILES: SMI I AND II
1.   Sub-loan Size
sMI (r)                SMI (II)                    TOTAL
Amount                   Amount                     Amount
Rs '000       No.   Amount  As a %    No.  Amount  As a Z    No.   Amount   As a x
0 - 50      1,101   32.2    14.0        262    7.0      0.8    1,363      39.2    3.7
50 - 500       504  110.4    48.1    1t407  209.3    25.5    1,611    319.7   30.4
500 - iM        136   86.9    37.9        326  209.8    25.5       462    296.7   28.2
IN - 2M                                 182  241.3    29.4        182    241.3   23.0
2M - 4M                                   61  153.9    18.8        61    153.9   14.7
TOTAL         1,741  229.5   100.0    1,938  821.3   100.0    3,679  1,050.8  100.0
=:====  =====   55===    =31=2=  =~==    f:=u==m   :=====  =======  ==m=-*



-44-
ANNEX 3
2.   Classification of sub-project by type
No,      Nooeas        No.    No. as          No*    No. as
Now              So1         51          752       39          1633       44
xptawlm          860         49         1186.      61          2046       56
Total            1741       100         1938      100          36179     100
3.   EmpLoyment Generation
fttO-projoeta                1741                 1938                  3679
lp1o>3e                     17526                18780                 3636



-45-
ANNEX 3
4.   Sectoral Breakdown
*    O.   oaalQUS  Am%,  N.s A      &ab.    °O,    Ua S
Cous.e costreause   11    500    2.1    14   12.0    1.,    25    17.0   1.6
COSSO maltellial    272   42.9   18.7   136   66.0    8.0              o 8a,9  10.4
Ma Pm6oistaa           474   56,6   24.7   516  226.92   27,3 5       22A0  26.9
e&MUIS               89    9.5    4.l   108   37.A    4A6   197    47.3   405
0K.toJ  Pp¢t8       215   22e4    9.8   170   6306    7.8   369    86.0   8.2
Oftr            Ind.    120   10.1    4.4    44   12.6    105   164    224   22
R6ep&z  btiataop     51    4.1    1.8    93   23,9    2.9   144    28,0   247
ftbber Products      29    6.8    3.0    62   37,4    4.6    91    44,2   4.2
Toextile             52    7.7    3e4    42   25.8    301    94    3.3,5   3.2
4o4d Produtos       176   20.4    8.8   143   37.9    4.6   319    58.3   5.5
MiselXlanoQus
AAaa5 RasbwA                           118   4-24     5.2   118    42.5   4.0
& Hanticuaaare
Chem. Prsodcir                          08    243    0,3    08        2.3   0.2
CORN. C0aparw                           144   41.3    5.0   144    41.3   3.9
Z   &'Shef, &lllau                       22    9.4   1t2    22        9e4   0.3
Fr sducto
r- asliO ProducatL                       33   32.9    4.0    33    32.9   3.1
& ?t9°eVlgw a P#)P            109   61.0    7.4   109    61.0   c.3
- Qghor             252   44.0   19.2   176   88.7   10.8   428   132.7  12.7
1741  229e5  100.0  1938  83t4  1O00  3679  1050,8 1.0
MM=                  CM=                      3              O



-46-
ANNEX 3
.I8  Appvova   Amsj    ae. g        t,  go  A        l   mt.
19    1.9    Q.8     1    009    Od        i     a.o    0e2
mUr?               46    3.7    1e6   a8   23.9    3.O   131          6      .A
81ulla            68    4.      2.1    47    Bo9    1.0   115    13.7    1.3
Baottcaloa         22    3.7   196    04   196    oOa    26          3.3    045
Co1=bG           40   83.-8  3445   54  304    374   954   369,8    r. 1
<6a.iz             73    7,6    33   177   57.7    7.0   25*    65,3    6.2
0eEpakb           218   30,1   13.1   247  113.0   13.?   335   143.1   13.6
Exmbo5tot4s        37    4.5   12,0    43   13e1    1.6   8s    17.6    1.6
J&o,tTh            51   12.4    5.4    07    3e4    0.4    58    15.8    1   *
K.luate            67    7.3    3.3    64   36.7    4e7   131    46.2    4.4
Kandy             1,2    9.4    4.1    80   23e3    2.8   232    32.7    3,1 *
X<eGa21t           29    4.3    2.0    98   36.9    4.5   127    41.4    3.9
Ki isoaleft       -s                   do    -       cm -   _              cm
KitaloN,lWa       1F77  ¶123    5,4   113   51.6    6.3   290    641    6.1 *
1a?i               92a  11.6    5.0    97   37e9    4.6   189    49,5    4.7 *
I&ma"              03    103    0.6    -      c       M      03      1.3    0.1
Nat&Le             53.  47    2.0    26    5.9    0.7    79    10.6    1.0
Ulo:e&ala          03  o 0.     0.1    24    4.8    0.5    27        5.0    0.5
kalleAiva          03    0.4    0.1             9 do         03      0.4    C .3
Nauoara El1 LY     09    0.7    0.38                                 7.6    0.1
Polonn&gat         35    3.6    1.6    48   11.2    1.3    83    14.8    1.4
ftllta.las        146   15.5    6.7   125   46.5    5.6   251    62.0    c.9
RatftapLft         22    2.1    1.0    74   29.5    3,5    j6    31.6    Z.O
?1ACae=oe          cG    2.1    1.0    02    0.1    0.1    10        2.2    vZ.
'lalS^*a           C6    0,9    0.4    01    0.3    0.3    07        1.2    . l
du_r=   x                          _      __
Tol el           1741  229,5  1000.  1938  821,3  100.0  3679  Wo50.8  1c0.0
Major Ragion Conurbations



-47-
ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING CREDIT INSTITUTIONS : SMI I AND II
Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
1.      BOC is one of the two NCBs operating in Sri Lanka and is the largest
commercial bank in the country, with total assets of Rs 42.8 billion, 702
branches and staffing of 10,530 (excluding recently employed security staff).
As of December 31, 1985, its total deposits were Rs 19.0 billion, about 43%
of all deposits of the banking system. In 1985 BOC earned gross income of
Rs 1.1 billion and an operational profit before taxes of Rs 134 million, down
significantly from the Rs 235 million in 1984. Although BOC has been operat-
ing profitably for the past decade, its return on equity (3.12) and average
total assets (0.3%) is low. This low return results from the significant
number of unprofitable social functions carried out for the Government, and
from GOSL's policies which have contributed to higher administrative costs
(i.e. extensive branch network, overstaffing due to politically motivated
personnel policy, etc.). BOC's industrial lending amounted to 27% of its
total lending in 1986, while term loans to SMI accounted for under 3% of
total lending; but this is expected to grow as has been the case over the
life of the two previous SMI projects.
2.      Under SMI I and II, 1,568 loans for Rs 500 million (US$17.5 million)
have been approved as of December 1986, making BOC the largest participant in
the SMI program both in terms of numbers of projects and amounts. Collection
performance of 75% and 84% for SMI I and  I respectively is satisfactory.  In
the past, BOC SMI operations (in line with their social functions objective)
have concentrated mainly on the smaller new projects dispersed wideLy over
the country, however, this has been changing somewhat as BOC's original
borrowers have prospered and are coming back for expansion funding. BOC's
SMI unit is headed by an AGM Industry with daily operations under the charge
of a credit manager. There are 19 SMI officers at headquarters and 44 at the
district level who work full time on SMI operations. In addition, a large
number of branch staff have had training in SMI lending. Based on its cur-
rent and proposed staffing levels, branch networks, improved appraisal/end
use capability, collections and experience in SMI operations, BOC qualifies
for participation in SMI III. They anticipate their participation to be
about 60% of the proposed SMI III credit of US$30 million compared to their
SMI II share of slightly above 50%.
a-<        -           -   ~     



-48-
ANNEX 4
Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC)
3.      CBOC is the largest local privately owned bank in Sri Lanka and has
15 branches located predominantly in Colombo, Kandy and the Southern Region,
with total staffing of about 1,150. As of December 31, 1986 its assets
totalled Rs 3.3 billion, which was about 13% higher than in 1985. Total
deposits of Rs 23 billion constitute 70% of the total assets. CBOC has been
operating profitably for the past five years, its return on equity has
averaged about 14%, return on assets 2.1%, and dividend to stockholders 22%.
Industrial advances are about 10% of total lending, of which 2% is for SMI
advances.  As of December 31, 1986, 165 loans for about Rs 80.0 million have
been approved under SMI I and II. CBOC has been cautious in its SMI lending,
concentrating mainly on large and medium-sized expansion projects. However,
their collection ratio at 60% for both SMI I and II is low and will have to
improve to 70% for CBOC to be eligible for SMI III. The CBOC SMI unit is
headed by a Senior Credit Controller (SCC) who reports directly to the AGM
for International Operations and Credit.  The SCC has two officers at head-
quarters and 14 full time SMI officers at branches. With its sound client
ba e, enthusiastic SMI operational staff, and branch network, CBOC could be
more active in SMI operations and should be able to improve on its current
level of utilization of SKI funds.
The Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)
4.      DFCC was established by an Act of Parliament in 1955 to provide
financial assistance to the private sector. DFCC's initial authorized capi-
tal was Rs 8 million which has been increased tG Rs 100 million. At present
44% of DFCC's shares are held by the BOC and PB and other public sector
institutions, 37% is held by foreign investors (including IFC) and 21% by
private corporations or individ'ials. DFCC's eleven member Board includes two
representatives appointed by BOC/PB, two by COSL and six by the shareholders.
The Chairman is appointed by GOSL. The General Manager is ex officio a
director. As of March 31, 1987, DFCC had 134 staff including 59 profession-
als.
5.      DFCC's Stacement of Operational and Finance Strategy provides a sound
framework for its present operations. However, with the liberaliza ion of
the financial system DFCC recognizes that the focus of its operations
requires some redirection, and it has appointed Morgan Grenfell to assist it
in the process of formulating a new operational strategy. DFCC's operational
policies and procedures are satisfactory and its internal controLs over
procurement, accounting and auditing are sound.



-49-
ANNEX 4
6.      Notwithstanding external difficulties over the past few years and a
change in accounting policy restricting interest treated as income, DFCC has
recorded sound if unspectacular profitability. Net after tax profits have
increased from Rs 6.4 million (FY80) to Rs 42.7 million (FY87) giving a ROA
of 2.6%. In line with project approvals total assets have increased from Rs
300 million (FY80) to Rs 1.9 billion (FY87). With added equity infusion
DFCC's debt/equity ratio is now 6:3:1; debt service coverage is 1:3:1 and the
ROE is 19.6%. As part of the overall asset increase DFCC's portfolio
increased from Rs 400 n'illion (FY81) to Rs 1.6 billion (FY87) or by 26% p.a.
Initially investments in the hotel sector constituted a major part of the
portfolio, but through a conscious plan of diversification the portfolio is
now relatively well balanced. As of March 31, 1987 arrears were Rs 81 mil-
lion or 5% of the portfolio with four sectors--garments, textiles, rubber
products and construction materials--accounting for 70% of the arrears. With
the rescheduling of the hotel portfolio DFCC's collections have improved and
are presently 93% of principal and interest due. Overall DFCC's performance
is satisfactory. Under SMI I and II DFCC has been a major participant with
cumulative appr)vals of Rs 214 million or 20% of the total. Disbursements
followed this pattern and as of March 31, 1987 DFCC had disbursed Rs 121
million or 17% of total disbursements.  Of the 167 subloans under supervi-
sion, 43 are in arrears with total arrears of Rs 3.0 million or 2% of total
outstanding.  Currently, DFCC's collection rate on SMI operations is 85%.
Hatton National Bank (HNB)
7.      HNB is a privately held company with total assets of Rs 3.2 billion
as of December 31, 1986, up from Rs 3.0 biliion in 1985. Total deposits
accounted for Rs 2.3 billion or 74% of assets. Gross income for the year was
Rs 320 million, while net income after taxes was Rs 27.6 million up from
Rs 25.9 million in 1986. Return on equity was 13.2% and on assets 1.4%, and
it paid a 25% dividend to its shareholders. Overall, HNB is a well run and
profitable institution with management and staff who are highly capable and
motivated. They are willing to make changes to keep abreast of recent
developments in banking, as well as to meet the challenge of increased com-
petition from a growing number of financial intermediaries. In its opera-
tions, advances to industry accounted for 16% of total advances, of which
approximately 2% was for SMI operations. Under SMI I and II, 136 loans for
Rs 100 million have been approved as of end 1986 (includes term loan financ-
ing and related financing). As a private bank, HNB's management is
answerable to its shareholders and with profit maximization as its main
objective, has been very careful in its selection and financing of SMI
projects. Most of its lending has been to existing clients for medium-sized
projects, which has resulted in most of the financing being successful. HNB
has the highest collection ratio under SMI I and III and the lowest level of
arrears among the PCI's. Based on present overall SMI performance, hNB
easily meets the minimum requirements for SMI III participation. It is
estimated that it will increase its involvement by at least 50% over SMI II's
performance levels.
*      _ **'_*giH ,*  *   -  ~ ?**,  ~-,*-                Qr.
~~~~~~&M1 VIEEN.Ju wmmd*waM



-50-
ANNEX 4
The National Development Bank (NDB)
8.      NDB was established in January 1979 with an authorized share capital
of Rs 2.0 billion (US$70 million) to finance agriculture, commercial and
industrial enterprises through direct loans, equity and refinance. NDB
issued Rs 600 million in initial share capital:  67% to GOSL, 17% to the CBSL
and 8% each to the two state-owned commercial banks. Of the issued share
capital of Rs 600 million, Rs 450 million has been paid in, leaving on call
Rs 150 million, or 75% of the contributions of the CBSL and the commercial
banks. The MOFP, the CBSL, the BOC and PB are represented on NDB's Board.
The organization has six departments,: two for direct lending; one for
refinance; and three for support functions. Department heads report to the
general manager, who is responsible through the chairman to the Board.  NDB's
management has been assisted by consultants financed under the SMI Projects.
An advisor to the SMI Fund assisted in establishing SMI refinance operations
and procedures.  These consultants contributed su!stantially to the initial
development of NDB and the SMI Fund.
9.      As of March 31, 1987, NDB had a staff of 175 including 90 profession-
als. To continue the upgrading of new and existing staff NDB has sent a
number of staff for training on local and overseas courses. For its day to
day operations, NDB has a clearly defined statement of operating guidelines
supplemented by an operational strategy for 1986-1988. Against the back-
ground of sound policies and procedures and a cadre of well qualified staff,
NDB's appraisals are sound, providing an adequate cover of technical, market-
ing and financial aspects of their lending operations. End use operations
are also satisfactory, although external influences upon project implementa-
tion require the need for close attention to project implementation and
rehabilitation.  NDB's procurement standards are satisfactory with all for-
eign exchange related procurement or major projects made through interna-
tional competitive bidding and international shopping for limited supply or
spare part procurement. NDB' s accounting procedures are also sound and are
subject to an annual audit by the Auditor General or an independent auditor
acting on his behalf.
10.     Since its establishment in 1979, NDB has supplemented its initial
equity base of Rs 600 million with retained earnings of Rs 700 million to
give it a total capital and reserves of Rs 1.3 billion as of December 31,
1986. In turn these resources and borrowings of Rs 1.2 billion have funded
fixed asset investments and term lending operations of Rs 2.5 billion (US$88
million). As indicated by the accumulation of reserves NDB's profitability
has grown consistently with net profits increasing from Rs 80 million in 1980
to Rs 108 million in 1986 or at an annual average rate of about 8%. ROA is
presently 6%, debt/equity ratio 0:7:1 and the debt service coverage ratio is
4:5:1, all highly satisfactory.



-51-
ANNEX 4
Pople's Bank (PB)
11.     PB is also a NCB with total assets of Rs 32.1 million as of end 1985,
and is the second largest commercial bank in Sri Lanka It has 309 branches,
and staffing of about 10,000.  Total deposits reached Rs 19.3 billion, repre-
senting a growth of 18% over 1984, and 40% of all deposits in the banking
system.  Total income was Rs 2.1 billion, although net profit declined from
Rs 78 million to Rs 67 million. Although PB has operated profitably over the
years, its return on capital (2%) and assets (4%) are low, as it has in the
past handled a significant volume of unprofitable social functions at the
request of GOSL, although its objectives are now to operate on purely commer-
cial principles. These activities, (i.e. extensive branch networks, over-
staffing, etc.) have resulted in high administrative costs and a portfolio
heavily infected with a high percentage of non-petforming loans (made for
social reasons or to semi-government corporations). Advances to industry
accounted for 25% of total advances; term loans to SMI amount to Rs 66 mil-
lion or 3% of the industrial lending portfolio. Under SKI I and II, 1,385
loans for Rs 350 million have been approved as of end 1986, making PB the
second largest participant in the SMI programs. In line with one of its
stated objectives oi promoting growth and development in all parts of the
country PB, like BOC, has concentrated mainly on smaller new projects dis-
persed all over the country. PB's management is fully committed to the SMI
operations and visualizes considerable growth in this area and has been
recruiting and training staff to carry out this work. Currently SMI opera-
tions come under the DGM Domestic Finance and are the direct responsibility
of the AGM Domestic Credit, who has 10 officers working for him at head-
quarters, and another 24 assigned to the 16 regional offices. These officers
work full time on SMI operations and are trained in appraisal, supervision,
end use, etc. In addition, almost all branches have SMI trained officers
who, depending on the volume of SMI activity, either work full or part time
on SMI operations. Based on PB's current branch network, staffing levels,
improved appraisal/end use capability, collection performance and experience,
they are qualified for participation in SMI III. Conservative estimates by
PB's SMI management suggest their participation in SMI III to be at least 25%
over their SMI II involvement.



-52-
ANNEX 4
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
1.   Cumulative Approvals
(Rs Million as of March 31, 1987)
SMI (I)          SMI (II)               TOTAL
Amount
No.   Amount    No.    Amount    No.   Amount   As a Z
Bank of Ceylon                  658   86.0    1,006   338.4    1,664    424.4   40.4
People's Bank                   896   91.5        569   201.7    1,465    293.2   28.0
Commercial Bank of
Ceylon Ltd.                   115   29.5         66    34.0        181      63.5    6.0
Hatton National Bank Ltd.        65   21.7         73    34.0        138      55.7    5.2
Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon           7    0.8        224   213.2        231    214.0   20.4
TOTAL                         1,741  229.5    1,938   821.3    3,679  1,050.8  100.0



-53-
ANNEX 4
2.  Commitments and Disbursements
(Rs million as of March 31, 1987)
SMI (I)          SKI (II)         TOTAL
Commit  Disb.    Commit  Disb.    Commit   Disb.
Amount  Amount   Amount  Amount   Amount   Amount
Bank of Ceylon               86.0    85.9    338.4   193.8       424.4   279.7
People's Bank                91.5    91.4    201.7   131.7       293.2   223.1
Commercial Bank of
Ceylon Ltd.                29.5    29.5     34.0    24.2        63.5    53.7
Hatton National Bank Ltd.    21.7    21.7     34.0    31.4        55.7    53.1
Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon       0.8     0.8    213.2   119.8       214.0   120.6
TOTAL                       229.5   229.3    821.3   500.9    1,050.8   730.2
_____   _____   _____   _____   _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



SOI aANKA
TIilRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SN! III) POJECT
SUSPROJECT PROFILES
9.  Collection PerIorance of Ski (I) and S         II  subloans ac at Dscegzber 31  1966: oll PCIs
_______(2_                         I )            5 _61 (            -  (     O W6 Z'O
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmere   tmlos9 reeol tLo
_(me.) _ _ _ _ _ _                  (u..    ___  ___   _  _   _  (   )    wa          19 1     1L         4
(11I)         (655)  107,194.7  65s 107,194.7  (wv7   51,116.3  760076.4  (26$) 25 .100.7  75  75  12  69  67               85
(Ex)      (210- sf6q11 .s2s          N        (   - S, 521.   jg06g A4 |262  JO. _             789  E 6_ L1    -    -
~ WQAa        1568)  485o46.2  1471) 41491499  2leI)  94            116,709-  (51q) 3w,g42i.  16  74  i.5  - _              1
QlI) {X}  (4D94)  ¶0 15,211.3 +! F(89) 110,525o2  2i6)   36,964.5  750,560.9  247  2s,492.3  72  65  60  5   60         117
6G  11 fX)    {   )_2.,5g42O.4, i4Z41!e1.2_r (9!L !'j2!._S'S212_&2_t !?l24t135P    19  P 2 __ _  3__
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
1 400l)  3Žs4i76t.1  1525) M,.1 (6w)  1"94.0   91055l (42)  2, Q.0  74  66  62   - 
- - - - - - - -    - - - - -                                                                        - -    - - - - - -1 -  - -    - - - - - -
2flt 1[)}     X115)    56,871.0  itts2   56,671.0  g65    10,850.2  181,040.0   571  11,V0.5  60  G   69  72  71            65
S(56)   570510.0  ( 501 52,011.5   50    21,6216.1    545.2       1   20532.5           R 5  52              a _  6
C9UBD¶O&L     (1) 41 f9.           6 (i6s) o609"4.5  (113)  4714580,   21,526.0  ( 7A  14,198,0 0D   65   _   _   _         s
It;(l65    27oM.2 1                65) 27,205.2   so)   6,120.6   19,04.6  % 25} 545  1   0"1  Q4  O S                      61
liU II)       (_7')  _   Agx5S:°      612 52,250.0 ;{6^2)    _>     A02¶3_4_ i" laaZ *52. OS   -' 84              ----  5  
---          .0       0     !.a -           40                                                              J -
no IEA1L    (1i6)   68,560.2  (152) 66,55.2  ¢ 95)  50,419.2   2,11)96.0                   it 5i  16,OS5Q  1  9   @ _ -
Th.I.C.00
2a ~z)   ~     o0)    1,001.1   07)  1,001.1      4         652.2      30.9 g 04)             23 5     10  41   9
'!'I).._2128400-4  1-2160  _5 S    2)_ '. -     1      6&49 1   16        2a  j a5 s   a O a-  a 1  
SO 5O?AL      (204)  259,401.5  (167) 155,069.5  (162) 150,50,8.   16,760.5  ( 45) 20"4.7  05  85  42  40                    2
sJ  tI)       17 56)  2tq,545 1 (1721) 282,797.2  (660)  95060.0.6  167,111.6 (1596 72,145.4 72   0  67  666               75
SW (I1)       1745)  9(1544)12,91).6  1460)  62%,%64.6  a7,555.6  (526) 10,257.5 85  16  60  74   _                         3
,      14|,s§ S-    -----  _   ,                              * s                           . --- - -  - -   -    - r  -   _   -



-55-
ANNEX 4
4.   Staff Training under the SMI Project up to 1986
Local Training               Overseas Training
No. of   No. of Officers        No. of   No. of Officers
Programs       Trained          Progr4ms       Trained
Up to 1983                 26             366*              04             54
During 1984                04              83               04             18
During 1985                07             183               05             14
During 1986                07             202               01             20
TOTAL                      44             834               14            106
2nd Quarter 1987
(Planned)                04             75
*   Excluding 291 officers from various categories who participated in
8 one-day seminars on SMI II.



-56-
ANNEX 5
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
Improving the Efficiency of the Financial Sector
Proposed Terms Of Reference For A Review Of
The Lending And Other Operations
Of The Bank Of Ceylon (BOC) And The People's Bank (PB)
Bacgjround
1.      The financial system of Sri Lanka has benefitted considerably from
the new economic policy that has been pursued since 1977. Institution build-
ing in particular has been very impressive as new domestic and foreign banks,
development finance companies, leasing companies, finance companies and
closed-end investment companies have been established. Institution building
is likely to continue further with the creation of new domestic banks as well
as insurance companies and open-ended investment companies (unit trusts) that
are currently under active consideration by a number of groups.
2.      The establishment of these institutions and in particular the arrival
of a number of foreign banks have led to increased competition and enhanced
efficiency especially in the areas of trade finance and corporate banking
services. To meet the challenge of the new competitors, the nationalized
commercial banks (NCBs), 1/ which still hold a dominant share of total finan-
cial assets in the country, havi taken various measures to streamline their
operations and improve their ef Ficiency, especially in the corporate banking
area. However, despite their efforts to respond effectively to this chal-
lenge, some concern is expressed at the high operating costs and high level
of non-performing loans of the NCBs which are reflected in their intermedia-
tion margins.
3.      High operating costs may be caused by overstaffing and by inefficient
operating procedures whilst the high level of non-performing loans may
reflect inadequate loan appraisal, approval and m.onitoring systems as well as
limitations on the effectiveness of debt recovery and collection. On the
1/ The NCB5 are the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and the People's Bank (PB).



-57-
ANNEX 5
other hand, bad loan performance may be due to extraneous factors such as the
adverse impact of the security situation on the hotel sector. In addition,
deficient debt recovery may be caused by inefficiencies and impediments in
legal procedures.
4.      GOSL attaches high priority to the strengthening of the financial and
operating performance of the NCBs and intends to provide every assistance to
them to streamline their operations and enhance their efficiency.  In this
respect, it proposes to support a special review of the lending and operating
procedures of the BOC and PB with a view to enhancing the efficiency of their
lending operations and the effectiveness of inspection procedures.  The study
will be assigned to a firm(s) of specialist consultants with an international
reputation, professionalism and experience in the review of commercial bank
operations.
5.      The review will aim to provide an assessment of the quality of exist-
ing procedures, systems and facilities and will make specific and detailed
recommendations for substantial improvements in the efficiency of lending and
other operations. It is understood that the proposed review will not include
a detailed analysis of the existing loan portfolios or of loan class-
ification, provisioning and recovery policies as these have been subject to
periodic review by the CBSL Department of Banking Supervision, although the
findings of the CBSL will be taken into account in formulating recommenda-
tions
6.      Because of the possible sensitivity of the findings of the review,
the review will be conducted on a confidential basis and will not be dis-
tributed to or discussed with any parties other than those identified by COSL
and the respective institution. The consulting assistance for these reviews
would be funded from the TA component of SMI III. TA assistance for
implementing agreed recommendations could be necessary and could be mobilized
from UNDP, or the umbrella IDA TA project presently under preparation.
&.-... .   .   .                                                                                      E.



-58-
ANNEX S
BANK OF CEYLON
Background
1.      The Bank of Ceylon has expressed strong interest in undertaking a
review of its overall operations as this would build on the improvements
achieved over the past five years following a comprehensive review of the
organization by the International Finance Corporation and successful
implementation of the recommendations of the IFC study. Moreover, the
proposed review will build on the findings and recommendations of the recent
reports on the cost effectiveness of the NCBs prepared by Mr. Dinneen, an
adviser to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Scope of Work
2.      The proposed review will cover the analysis and evaluation of the
following:
(a) the structure and evolution over the fast five years of the financial
position of the BOC based on the balance sheet and other financial
statements (profit and loss, sources and uses of funds, operating
costs);
(b) the operating performance over the past five years with particular
emphasis on the level of profitability, loan losses, operating costs
and costs of intermediation;
(c) the distribution of loans by sector of economic activity, geographi-
cal region, size of borrower and type of loan;
(d) the distribution of non-performing loans by the same range of
attributes;
(e) the impact of the non-accrual of interest on non-performing loans and
of loan loss provisions and write-offs on the overall profitability
of lending operations;
(f) the written loan policy guidelines for the terms and conditions of
different types of loans and the loan appraisal, approval and
monitoring procedures;
(g) the policies and procedures on internal review and credit inspection
systems;
(h) the training programs and facilities on credit appraisal and credit
inspection;
(i) the operating systems and procedures at branch and head office level,
both with regard to lending operations and other activities, e.g.
deposit collection, cash handling, payment services, etc.
.- { fi;



-59-
ANNEX 5
Assistance Required
3.      It is estimated that about 12-15 consultant months of assistance
would be required from three/four consultants, supplemented by the use of
local consultants, working as a close coordinated team. The costs of this
assistance would be funded in part by a foreign exchange allocation of
US$250,000 from IDA's SMI III supplemented by local currency support from
the BOC.
Counterpart Support
4.      In order for the consultants to obtain a proper understanding of how
the different departments of the Bank interact with each other, a senior
officer of the Bank would be assigned to work with the consultants. Addi-
tionally, there would be frequent meetings between the consultants and senior
management during the proposed review.
Reporting
5.      During the course of the review the consultants will provide the
Bank's management with (i) an interim report setting out the major issues
identified to date and proposed courses of action to analyse the issue and
develop appropriate action programs for further work, (ii) a draft final
report setting out the findings of the review and proposed remedial actions.
This report would be supported by an outline action program indicating the
time frame for implementing agreed recommendations and a training program
focusing on the areas of weakness identified during the review.



-60-
ANNEX 5
PEOPLE'S BANK
Background
1.      The People's Bank (PB) was set up by the Government in 1961 and was
expected to provide banking facilities to support government's development
efforts in the fields, particularly of agriculture, cooperative and rural
development. It was also hoped that it would as far as possible operate
through cooperative societies. It was given all the powers of a commercial
bank. Its growth during the period was rapid and it quickly became a major
banking institution, both as a commercial bank and as a development bank.
Although PB's designated role was to develop the cooperative movement,
promote rural banking and P-ant agricultural credit it deviated from these
objectives and involved itself in commercial banking in order to cbtain funds
to finance development in the rural economy.
2.        The People's Bank now has the largest number of branches in the
financial system and also the largest number of employees (9,900) in any
financial institution in Sri Lanka. However, even with this structure,
profits have remained stable and business has continued to grow despite the
fact that ethnic disturbances in the North and the East has resulted in a
drop in Levenue from these areas and also the keen competition from foreign
banks. The management of PB is, however, acutely aware of the need to
improve efficiency and productivity to meet the challenges of the future and
have taken a number of steps to achieve this objective, including full com-
utrization of the larger branches of the Bank, computerization of the
;-erations of the International Division, the introduction of a more com-
p:ehensive automated system which will include a management information
system linked to the Central System, improvement of the manual systems in the
branches not fully automated, strengthening Internal Audit and Management
Audit, and organization changes to improve recovery of non-performing loans.
Scope of Work
3.      In an organization as large and complex as PB changes and improve-
ments will inevitably have to be introduced slowly and cautiously, more so as
the in-house capability of the Bank is somewhat limited and there are
organizational constraints which cannot be eliminated easily. PB therefore
proposes a programatic strategy which it feels is appropriate to the circum-
stances and has not opted for formulating an overall Master Plan for improv-
ing the Bank's operating efficiencies. In this regard the Board is of the
view that the outside technical assistance would be useful in the following
areas to support on-going efforts to improve productivity and efficiency.



-61-
ANNEX 5
(a) An in depth study of the existing operating systems at branch,
regional and Head Office level in order to ascertain whether the
system provides sufficient checks and balances to prevent fraud,
embezzlement, etc., and also whether the audit system is adequate
and effective;
(b) An examination of the existing systems and procedures for credit
evaluation and monitoring at Head Office and the branches with a view
to:
(i) making recommended changes, if necessary for improvement;
(ii) provide assistance for the setting up of a project evaluation
department for large scale advances;
(c) A study of present pricing policy on advances and overdrafts;
(d)  A study of the need for greater decentralization in operations to
ensure quicker customer service;
(e)  Support for the full computerization program for the International
Division;
(f) Introduction of a comprehensive computer audit system;
(g) Assistance in identification of new business opportunities for the
Bank or through the People's Merchant Bank;
(h) Development of a broad corporate strategy and plan for the next five
years;
(i)  Planning a training program for key personnel and trainers; and
(j) Improvement of manual systems in non-automated branches.
Assistance Required
4.      It is estimated that about 12-15 consultant months of assistance
would be required from three/four consultants, supplemented by the use of
local consultants, working as a close coordinated team. The costs of this
assistance would be funded in part by a foreign exchange allocation of
US$250,000 from IDA's SMI III supplemented by local currency support from
the BOC.
II-  



-62-
ANNEX 5
Counterpart Support
5.      In order for the consultants to obtain a proper understanding of how
the different departments of the Bank interact with each other, a senior
officer of the Bank would be assigned to work with the consultants. Addi-
tionally, there would be frequent meetings between the consultants and senior
management during the proposed review.
Reporting
6.      During the course of the review the consultants will provide the
Bank's management with (i) an interim report setting out the major issues
identified to d.te and proposed courses of action to analyse the issue and
develop appropriate action programs for further work, (ii) a draft final
report setting out the findings of the review and proposed remedial actions.
This report would be supported by an outline action program indicating the
time frame for implementing agreed recommendations and a training program
focusing on the areas of weakness identified during the review.
R                                                                                        _N   * ; V



-63-
ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
THIRD SM4ALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
Review Of Dut Drawback/Transferable Tax Credit/Export Credit Procedures
Background
1.      Sri Lankan exports have long been characterized by a reliance on
traditional products, namely, tea, rubber and coconuts. In the fifties and
early sixties, it would have been difficult to identify export growth as a
major policy concern. Indeed, the heavy dependence on export taxes as a
source of government revenue resulted in a policy environment which was
biased against exports.  However, from 1977 on, under the Government's reform
programs, a large number of policy measures were rapidly announced and imple-
mented.  An Export Development Council of Ministers, chaired by the Presi-
dent, was established in 1979 with the Export Development Bureau (EDB) as its
executive agency.  The EDB introduced new export promotion schemes and sub-
stantially revamped others. In 1980, the then existing duty drawback scheme
was significantly revised and placed under EDB management.  The number of
products receiving drawbacks expanded rapidly and by 1984 the scheme had been
extended to cover almost all non-traditional products using imported
materials as well as sales to the Free Trade Zone (FTZ). A "manufac-
ture-in-bond" scheme was introduced in 1982 and a system of export grants was
set up in 1981. A preshipment refinancing scheme for non-traditional exports
became operational in 1978 and the Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corpora-
tion (SLECIC) was formed in 1979. A new Industrial Policy was formulated and
accepted in principle by the Government in March 1987. One of the main
features of this policy is to replace the existing tax holidays and the
Export Development and Investment Support Scheme (EDISS) payments made to
exporters by the EDB with the Transferable Tax Credit (TTC).



-64-
ANNEX 6
2.      The objectives of the current export promotion schemes are to:
(i) provide exporters with duty-free access to imported inputs;
(ii) provide inducements to exporting activities designed to increase
their profitability; by compensating for the disadvantages the
exporting industries suffer vis-a-vis import competing activities
through tariff; and
(iii) provide exporters access to credit on concessionary terms until
distortions in market forces which determine interest rates can be
removed.
Duty/Tax Rebates
3.      There are a number of schemes in place to ensure that exporting firms
gain access to inputs at world prices. Firstly, Lhe FTZ operated by the
Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) enables exporters in the zone to
obtain imported inputs as well as machinery and equipment free of customs
duty and BTT. Secondly, the Manufacture-in-Bond Scheme permits duty free
imports meant for re-export directly into the factory premises owned by the
exporters. This scheme is now mandatory for all garments exporters.
Thirdly, the Custom Duty Rebate Scheme (CDRS) is a system of general rebates
granted on the raw materials and packaging materials fGr the processing of
non-traditional exports. Lastly, firms that export (or are capable of
exforting) more than 50% of their production can qualify for exemption from
custom duties and BTT on imported machinery and equipment otner than spares
and motor vehicles.
4.      Thus, schemes exist for the exemption of customs duties and fiscal
levies on all inputs for the production of non-traditional exports with the
exception of a few such as fuel and electricity. However, these schemes are
biased towards direct exporters and restricted to non-traditional exports.
COSL proposes a revision to the duty rebate scheme that would extend its
scope to include (i) inputs used in traditional exports; if not accommodated
in the fixation cf export taxes; (ii) consumables used not unidentifiable or
unincorporated in the finished product; and (iii) inputs used by indirect
exporters. The TTC scheme is the obverse of the Customs Duty Rebate Scheme
in that it is based on net foreign exchange earned. The operational details
of the TTC scheme have yet to be worked out.. The reformulation of the CDRS
has been undertaken by the Customs Duty Rebate Committee, functioning under
the auspices of the EDB. The formulation of the TTC scheme is to be under-
taken by an inter-agency committee headed by a representative of the
Treasury. To support the two committees, COSL has requested technical assis-
tance as indicated below:



-65-
ANNEX 6
Scope of Assistance
5.      Assistance would be provided to carry out an overall analysis of the
current system of duty drawbacks for direct exporters paying particular
attention to the following aspects:
(a) CDRS
(i) the method utilized by the Customs Duty Rebate Committee (CRDC)
in calculating the rates;
(ii) the procedure followed in revising drawback rates for existing
products as well as that in obtaining rebate rates for a new
product;
(iii) the documentation and procedures followed by exporters in using
the system;
(iv) the procedures followed in reimbursing the exporter; and
(v) investigating the feasibility of extending the rebate system to
indirect exporters via a system of linked letters of credit,
and identifying the major steps necessary for its implementa-
tion.
(b) Transferable Tax Credit (TTC) Scheme
(i) the manner in which the TTC scheme has been operated by any
other country/countries which have adopted a similar scheme;
(ii) the quantum of assistance that should be extended to exporters
to compensate for disadvantages the exporting industries suffer
vis-a-vis import competing activities through tariffs;
(iii) the method of calculation of value added by exporters as well
as of TTCs;
(iv) the feasibility of extending the scheme to traditional and
non-traditional agricultural exports and to indirect exports;
(v) the mechanics of the grant of TTCs and the encashment thereof;
and
(vi) the administrative structure of the unit which will be
entrusted with the operation of the TTC scheme.
.=. .......................... U-_,.{g.S^PKuu'J  .................................... .=..............._.   



-66-
ANNEX 6
The above will involve giving technical support to the two committees men-
tioned above as well as visits to the plants of exporters using the system.
It would be supported by a number of in depth case studies covering points
(a)(i)-(iv) above.
6.      The consultants would assist the two committees mentioned above to
produce concise written reports on their findings covering the following
areas:
(a)  CDRS
(i) the coverage of the system with respect to products and
exporters;
(ii) the adequacy of the rebate for those covered;
(iii) the timeliness of the rebate;
(iv) the cost of the delay in the rebate to the exporter;
(v) the main deficiencies of the present system; and
(vi) a phased program for correcting the deficiencies.
(b) TTC Scheme
(i) the method of calculation of value added as well as of TTCs;
(ii) the mechanics of grant of TTCs and the encashment thereof;
(iii) the administrative structure of the unit responsible for the
operation of the TTC scheme; and
(iv) phased program of operation of the TTC scheme.
Export Credit
7.      The CBSL operates both medium-to-long and short-term concessionary
refinancing facilities for exporters. The medium-to-long term credit takes
the form of concessionary refinancing of up to 70% of the amount advanced by
the commercial bank (with a margin of 2% for the commercial banks). The
maximum loan allowable under the scheme is Rs 30 million. The duration of
the loans range from three to fifteen years with a grace period of up to
three years. Projects approved under CCEC and the cultivation and processing
of tea, rubber and coconut in their traditional form are ineligible. Under
the short term preshipment credit scheme, 100% concessionary refinance is
granted to commercial banks for preshipment advances made by them to
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-67-
ANNEX 6
exporters who have received an irrevocable Letter of Credit or a firm export
order. For the purpose of the facility, exports are divided into two
categories, viz.9 Category I consisting of tea, rubber, coconut and their
derivatives, as well as garments, gems, marine products and petroleum
products, and Category II consisting of all the rest. The amount available
to any one bank for refinance of Category I goods is limited to the amount
lent by the bank in the previous year. The amount available for refinancing
Category II loans is open-ended in theory, though in practice an informal
quota appears to be in effect.
8.      Immediate access to both preshipment credit for exporters is one of
the cornerstones of a successful export promotion drive in a number of
countries. Much remains to be done to strengthen the existing schemes in
Sri Lanka. In most countries, as it is in Sri Lanka, improving access to
preshipment credit is more critical than that to postshipment credit because
financial institutions are usually prepared to discount export bills. It is
a general consensus among the banks, the EDB and the exporters that the
country's financial system as a whole is efficient. The exact causes of the
problem have not been analyzed fully, though some contributory factors have
been identified. In the case of medium to long term lending, the allowed
margin of 2% is not sufficient in relation to the operational costs and risks
that the bank carry, the insistence on collateral especially where new as
well as small and medium scale exporters are concerned, and the delays that
are consequent upon the different procedures adopted by the EDB, commercial
banks and the Central Bank are also mentioned as major constraints. With
respect to the short-term preshipment credit, the banks are not always
prepared to consider a firm export order or a letter of credit as sufficient
collatoral to warrant a loan to purchase inputs. Moreover, there appears to
be an unwillingness to make short term credit available liberally on the
grounds that it would be inflationary. The Export Incentive Study carried
out by the EDB and the Industrial Policy Committee have recognized that the
lack of an adequate supply of short term credit for working capital is a
major bottleneck in the development of exports and that the resolution of
this financing problem should be one of the top concerns of the export
policies.
Scope of Assistance
9.      Assistance would be provided to carry out an indepth review of the
current systems of export financing and refinancing with particular emphasis
upon:
(i) the basis for determining financing/credit for exporters;
(ii) the procedure for allocating credit to individual exporters; and
Z7'X;'W^;,X2 -i.  M=.



-68-
ANNEX 6
(iii) the procedure followed by exporters to access export credit i.e.,
the opening of Letters cf Credit, Bills of Lading, negotiation, etc.
To obtain the necessary information on the above the consultants should have
indepth discussions with officials of the CBSL, Commercial Banks, Exporting
Houses, EDB, Ministry of Finance and Planning, and the Ministry of Industries
and Scientific Affairs. The system and procedure analysis would include on
site visits to a sample of direct exporters.
10.     Based on the analysis above the consultants would investigate the
feasibility of extending the export credit refinancing schemes to indirect
exporters via a system of domestic letters of credit, linked with the letter
of credit for direct exporters.
11.     The consultants would produce a brief written report on their find-
ings covering the following area:
(i) the constraints to the effective implementation of the existing
systems and the solutions thereto;
(ii) modification necessary to extend the present/modified system to
indirect exporters; and
(iii) phased program for implementing system and procedural changes.



-69-
ANNEX 7
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED INDUSTIRES (SMI III) PROJECT
Export Marketing Fund
Background
1.      Under SMI II, a grant of about US$540,000 was allocated to EDB to
promote the country's exports through its various promotion and financial
assistance programs. While the indepth assessment of the impact of these
programs is yet to be completed, preliminary findings suggest that the impact
has not been as substantial as was expected, except in a, few selected areas,
including semiprecious stones, diamond cutting, prawn culturing, handicrafts
and garment manufacture. However, the following weaknesses inherent in the
TA under SMI II have been identified: (i) assistance was extended over a
diverse category of products and activities of low strategic importance, thus
diluting its overall impact, (ii) technological obsolescence, limited produc-
tion capacity and low product quality were not specifically addressed, and
(iii) serious weaknesses in the country's overall export marketing capability
were left in place. Taking these findings into account, the TA under SMI III
would focus on assistance (i) to EDB's developments efforts in selected areas
of high export potential, and (ii) to strengthen the country's overall export
marketing capability. In view of the limited resources and staff capacities
of EDB, more emphasis would be placed on mobilizing private sector resources
and on supporting the catalytic role of EDB as an information and coordina-
tion centre.
Scope
2.      A US$500,000 Export Marketing Fund will be established under SMI III
with funding from the ADB to be administered by EDB to finance the following
activities and services of EDB and the private sector.
3.      Export Development in Selected Subsectors.  US$150,000 will be allo-
cated to finance EDB's activities to introduce, develop and promote priority
export industries, including e.g. leather products, shrimp and prawn cultur-
ing. The Fund would finance the costs of (i) information and data collec-
tion, (ii) consulting services, (iii) domestic and overseas training for EDB



-70-
ANNEX 7
staff and exporters, and (iv) laboratory and training machinery and equipment
required by EDB. EDB would be required to select the industries/product
categories of high promotional priority and promising prospects for this
component of the TA.
4.      Promotion of Export Marketing.  US$350,000 would be allocated to
financially support the direct and indirect export marketing efforts of EDB
and SMIs and their associations. Activities eligible for assistance would
include:
(a)  the establishment of trade centres in major overseas markets which
would operate as information and coordination centres for the
country's foreign trade, technological collaboration and joint ven-
ture undertakings with foreign companies.  To assess the scope for
setting up such trade centres, a task force involving EDB and other
government and private sector bodies concerned should be established.
The Fund would provide US$50,000 for the task force to carry out a
feasibility study on the trade centre scheme.  The Fund would also
provide US$50,000 to finance the cost of a market survey in a major
overseas market.  After evaluating the usefulness of such a survey,
the number of surveys could be increased subsequently in consultation
with IDA.
(b)  US$250,000 would be allocated to finance the cost of direct and
indirect marketing activities of SMIs and their associations. At an
individual SMI level, the following activities would be eligible for
assistance:
(i) establishment of new trading houses and opening of oversea3
branch offices;
(ii) general market research;
(iii) overseas field market research;
(iv) participation in trade fairs;
(v) minor product adaptation and product inspection services for
enhancing product marketability; and
(vi) domestic and overseas training for marketing management staff.
(c) At a business association level, the following activities would be
eligible for financing from the Fund:
(i) establishment of small product-specific libraries;



-71-
ANNEX 7
(ii) group marketing activities; and
(iii) organization of and participation in domestic and overseas
trade fairs.
5.      The support would be for the costs of data and information collection
from overseas, technical and advisory services by consultants and travel
expenses. The Fund would be utilized primarily for a 50% support for
eligible expenditures. The beneficiaries of the assistance would not be
limited to those directly connected with export trade, but would also include
those indirectly contributing to exports such as the manufacturers of parts
and components of exported items and packaging supplies. EDB would be
required to formulate detailed operational policies, rules and procedures for
the effective implementation of the scheme.



-72-
ANNEX 8
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
Technical Assistance Facility (TAF)
Background
1.      Technology development and the improvement of industrial efficiency
are essential for accelerated and sound industrial growth. However, the
access of small and medium industries (SMIs) to industrial information,
including, in particular, on modern technologies, and the availability of
such technologies are very limited. Studies and researches carried out in
the past by government organizations on the industrial sector, subsectors and
specific technologies are very often partial in scope, outdated and do not
adequately meet the requirements of SMIs. While there could be valuable
industrial/technological information collected, there has been no adequate
system established to disseminate such information among SMIs. There is a
need to improve the accessibility of SMIs to industrial information, par-
ticularly on modern technologies, through building up such information and
establishing an effective system of disseminating It to SMIs as well as
financial institutions and other private and public sector organizations
concerned with SMI development.
2.      There are a number of public sector institutions which provide
industry with assistance to improve their technology and productivity.
However, the quality of such services is suspect since they have had little
contact with private industry, have become largely "academic" and
supply-oriented, and have a poor image among private industrialists.
Moreover, due to permanent constraints in staffing and funding, many of them
have little to offer to private industry in terms of technology updating. It
is, therefore, considered necessary to develop alternative sources of techni-
cal services in the private sector and to enhance the availability of modern
technologies to SMIs.



-73-
ANNEX 8
Scope
3.      Under SHI III US$500,000 would be allocated to develop a technology
transfer information system, prepare subsectoral studies and establish a
Technical Assistance Facility (TAF) with a view to (i) disseminating practi-
cal industrial/technological information to the private industry sector and
other parties concerned with SMI development, and (ii) increasing the
availability to SMIs of modern technologies. The TAF will be administered by
NDB.
Information Service
4.      The TAF would provide NDB with US$25,000 to assess the scope of and
to formulate plans for an effective industrial/technological information
system for SMIs. The study should be carried out by foreign/local consult-
ants and should produce action-oriented proposals for establishing such a
system. The TAF would also finance in depth studies on about 20 priority
subsectors or product groups covering the various aspects of the subsectors
or product groups with particular emphasis on production technologies. The
findings of the studies should be of high relevance to the operations of SMIs
as well as to suboroject appraisal by the PCIs under SMI III, and should be
available to SMIs and all other parties concerned free or at a minimum
charge.  An amount of US$100,000 would be allocated for financing local
consulting services for the studies.  NDB, in consulation with the PCIs and
other organizations concerned, would be required to select appropriate sub-
sectors for the study.
Technology Transfer
5.      The TAF would also finance various activities of SMIs for their
technological development, improvement in productivity and efficiency, and
research and development (R & D). Partial grants would be given to SMIs for
the financing of eligible and viable "technology subprojects" such as techni-
cal consulting, services technical training programs, technical collaboration
packaging or small R & D projects which either introduce new technology or
improve existing technologies and techniques in SMIs. The grants would cover
50% of the cost of consulting services training , materials and small eqt4ip-
ments; the other 50% will be contributed by the applicant enterprise. A sum
of US$375,000 would be allocated for financing 50% of the total cost of
US$750,000, which would comprise the total cost of about 200 man months of
foreign and local consulting services, 50 man months of training as wo!ll as
the purchase of materials and small equipment. Windows for SMIs to apply for
such assistance would be the PCIs. NDB and PCIs would be required, in con-
sulation with other organizations concerned, to formulate detailed opera-
tional policies rules and procedures for the effective implementation of the
scheme.



-74-
ANNEX 9
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI III) PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursements
Association FY                     US$          X
FY88      December 31                        1.4          7
June 30                           3.0         15
FY89      December 31                        4.6        23
Jute 30                           6.0         30
FY 90     December 31                        8.0        40
June 30                          10.0         50
FY91      December 31                       12.4        62
June 30                          15.0         75
FY92      December 31                       17.0        85                          p
June 30                          19.0         95
FY93      December 31                      20.0        100
20.0



-75-
ANNE 10
SRI LAMMA
THIRD SI4ALL AND M!DrUI INDUSTRIES (5141 rll) PROJECT
PROJECT FILE
The Industrial Sector
1.      Industrial Policy Statement: COSL
The Pinncial Environment
2.      Joint IMP/8Snk Finncial Sector Repoet: July 1986.
3.      The Structure of the Financial Systems May 1987.
4.      Joint IMP/Bank Detailed Review-Unk of Caylon.
5.      Joint IMF/Bank Detailed Review-People's Bank.
The MI Sector
6.      Sub Loan Analysis SPII I and rl.
7.      Progress Report: Technical Assistance SM I r and  -I.
The Projet-Inastitutional Structure
8.      An.aual Report: National Development Bank.
9.      Tha Participating Credit Institutions:
- BSank of Ceylon
- Comercial Sank of Ceylon
- Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
Hatton National Bank
- People's Bank
The Project-Credit CoMpnent
10.     Policies on Procedures: CBSL Credit Guarantee Scheme.
ll.     Draft Participation Agreements: NDB/SXI Fund and PCIs.
The Project-Technical Assistance Comoonent
12.     Draft Statement of Policies and Procedurts for Export Marketing Fund.
13.     Draft Statement on Policies and Procedures for SMI Technology Transfer Fur.d.
The Proket--ReRortinS Requirements
14.     Draft Periodic Reports.



IBRD 17278
I-                                            MAY 1I3
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-     Notonol Copital
/                                                   -  -   District Boundories
_   M, I.LJ;LA T!,J                              -   -  Provincial Boundaries
1'ORTHERN'-
F                        .         ~         ~         ~~~         ~~~,  ,"_                                           1
V VAVJN'YA         -
MANNAR
T\ RINCOMALEE
I                                   s~~~~~~~~~~~
A',JRAD,1AP.RA                    /
\/VOR7H  CZ- I R A
PJ'A-A'                                            POLONNARuWA                                             W4
/~~~~ r                        V?                      (
NORTH ,
-i  ~          ~ ~~~ )BATTICALOA
WESTERN                                    Km-f,_>    N
K<Rh,EGAJA             )   k4ATAJ          r\       EASTERN
J   CEN TRA                                  '-   1
I  ._.,ANDY               )
-A  ',.> ---s-   J.\                        _   _            /                /  AMPARAI
S        I2                -'             /      )IA< XL    \\
LGA-4 B}         _                    8Dj LA    N           
U VA
C CuOO 69   /           m   e ,0+hRA                     z / 
rtT>Er   \      /       YA _                          YNOhERAGALA
77`1
Z . 'VaA  "                            /                               K(    
'-                      c, -            _                   ..-n>~  
" D i A                            ,\ A^MBLAN7AOT
S CU THERN
*, I/A'ARA   0;                                                      O110 20  0 3
0    0   10  tO  40   O      ;
V     D,.                                                                               b,        a  .. -AW
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. '   "R C t.S  -__ =ae.  0, ta'



