Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13199
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-III)
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
JUNE 27, 1994
Country Operations and Industry & Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
(annual average)
Rs. Per US$1.00          US$ Per Rs.1.00
1986        28.017                    0.0355
1987        29.445                    0.0339
1988        31.807                    0.0314
1989        36.047                    0.0277
1990        40.063                    0.0249
1991        41.372                    0.0241
1992        43.830                    0.0228
1993        48.322                    0.0206
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -      Asian Development Bank
AWPR        -      Average Weighted Prime Rate
BOC         -      Bank of Ceylon
BMR         -      Balancing, Modernizing and Rehabilitation
CBOC        -      Commercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL        -      Central Bank of Sri Lanka
DFCC        -      Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB         -      Export Development Board
GOSL        -      Government of Sri Lanka
HNB         -      Hatton National Bank
IDB         -      Industrial Development Board
IPS         -      Industrial Policy Statement
NDB         -      National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
PB          -      Peoples Bank
PCI         -      Participating Credit Institutions
PFDP        -      Private Finance Development Project
PMEs        -      Public Manufacturing Enterprises
SB          -      Sri Lanka Standardization Institute
SMI         -      Small and Medium Industries
TIPR        -      Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL                                               = January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks                                   = January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)= April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)    = January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Third SmaDl and Medium
Industries Project (Credit 1860-CE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Third Small and Medium Industries Project
(Credit 1860-CE) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was the third in the series of credits that were extended to Sri Lanka, starting in 1979,
for the development of small and medium scale industries. An additional US$15 million was cofinanced
by ADB. The Credit (including the ADB funds) was committed to 2448 subprojects and created 28,630
jobs with incremental investment per job of around US$2000. The project had little impact on creation
of employment in the rural areas, as most subprojects were implemented in the urban centers. There was
also little demand for financing in the Northern and Eastern Provinces because of the ethnic disturbances.
The technical assistance component of the project had a mixed result. It proved useful in training
and upgrading the institutional capabilities of the participating credit institution, but the State Commercial
Banks failed to fully implement the recommendation of the studies aimed at their restructuring. Thus the
institutional development objectives of the project, especially the focus on improving the financial sector
efficiency, were only partially realized.
Given that most subprojects are operating and profitable, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
However, it is not clear that a succession of three credits (followed by a fourth for US$45 million in 1991)
has done much in enabling the commercial banks or other financial institutions to continue lending to the
small and medium industries without the support of multilateral agencies. Consequently, the sustainability
of this project is rated as uncertain.
The PCR is of high quality. It provides a clear and candid account of the project experience. No
audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
Thi document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. ts contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJIECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1860-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ..............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...................................ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE IDA'S PERSPECTIVE                              ..........
1.   Project Identity  ...................................                                       1
2.   Background   .....................................                                          1
The Industrial Sector ...............................                                     1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  .......................                                 2
4.   Project Design and Organization .........................                                   2
5.   Project Implementation and Results .......................                                  3
Implementation and Results of Credit Component  ....                .........             3
PCIs/NDB Performance in Project Implementation   ....                 ........            4
Credit Guarantee Scheme  ............................                                     5
Implementation and Results of Technical Assistance ....               ........            6
6.   Project Sustainability ................................                                     8
Sub-Projects's Performance  ...........................                                   8
Participating Credit Institutions .........................                               8
7.   IDA's Performance .................................                                         9
8.   Borrower's Performance   .............................                                      9
9.   Project Relationships ................................                                      9
10.  Project Documentation and Data  ........................                                    9
11.  Consulting Services  ................................                                      10
12.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned   .......................                                  10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                             12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................                                             14
1.   Related Bank Loans  ....... ..........                     ...............                 14
2.   Project Timetable ....... ......... ..                   ................                  15
3.   Credit Disbursement ....... ..........                     ...............                 15
4.   Project Implementation   ..............              ..      ..............                15
5.   Project Costs and Financing  ............             ..       .............               16
A. Project Costs ..........                                                              16
B. Project Financing ...............................                                     16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[ official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.             |



6.      Project Results  ..........  ..  ..  .                          .   .   ...............  .                    ..      .           16
7.      Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            16
8.      Use  of Bank  Resources    ........  .                          .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    17
A.  Staff Inputs    ..........  .                        ..  .   .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   .  ..  .  ..  .   ..    .             17
B.   Missions   ..........  ..  ..  .                         ..  ..  .    ..  ..  .    ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .       .           17
ANNEXES
I.     Sub  Loan  Financing  ....................................                                                                                 18
II.   Net Refinancing Approval of the Credit Components by PCIs ...                                                      .......                   19
III.     Size Distribution  of Sub  Loans by  PCIs    .......................                                                                       20
IV.       Sectoral Distribution  of Sub  Loans    ..........................                                                                        21
V.      Geographical Distribution  of Sub  Loans   .......................                                                                         22
VI.       Collection  Performance  of the  PCIs   ..........................                                                                        23
VII.       Technical Assistance  - Allocation  and  Utilization  ..................                                                                  24
VIII.  People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon Operational Review .25



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small
and Medium Industries Project (Credit 1860-CE) to the Government of Sri Lanka
in the amount of US$ 20.0 million equivalent (inclusive of US$ 5.0 million
technical assistance). The project was approved on December 15, 1987, signed
on February 10, 1988, became effective on April 21, 1988, and closed as
scheduled on June 30, 1993. The project supported the Government's objective
of providing credit through the banking system to small and medium scale
private manufacturing enterprises and contributed to policy reform and
institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff administration, export
promotion and financial sector operations.
2.          The credit component was fully committed as of December 31, 1990
and fully disbursed as of May 1993. The TA component, however, was 92 percent
committed of which only 88 percent was utilized at the time of the project
closing; the unutilized fund was cancelled. The Asian Development Bank (ADB)
provided, through co-financing, an additional US$ 14.5 million for sub-project
financing and US$ 0.5 million for technical assistance.
3.          The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was
prepared by the Country Operations and Industry and Finance Division, Country
Department III, South Asia Region (SA3CI). Part II was prepared by the
National Development Bank (NDB), the Apex Institution for the Small and Medium
Industries Projects, on behalf of the Government. The NDB also provided part
of the statistical information required for Part III.
4.          This PCR is based, among other sources, on the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR); The Development Credit Agreement (DCA); supervision reports;
internal Bank memoranda; NDB quarterly progress reports; correspondence
between IDA and the borrower.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-III)
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives and Description.  The main project objective was to
support and complement IDA's previous industrial sector operations by
providing credit through the banking system to private small and medium
manufacturing industries. The project also aimed at making a further
contribution to policy reform and institutional strengthening in the areas of
industrial and export promotion and financial sector operations. The project
had two components: (i) a Credit component of US$ 15.0 million equivalent for
term loans to private Small and Medium Industries (SMIs); and (ii) a US$ 5.0
million equivalent Technical Assistance (TA) component for improving financial
sector efficiency, export development, and improvement of public manufacturing
enterprises. An additional US$ 14.5 million for sub-project financing, and
US$ 0.5 million for TA was co-financed by ADB.
2.          Proiect Implementation and Results.  SMI-III was signed on
February 10, 1988, became effective on April 21, 1988 and closed as scheduled
on June 30, 1993. The Credit component was fully committed as of December 31,
1990 and fully disbursed as of May 1993. The TA component was 92 percent
committed of which 88 percent was utilized at the time of closing; the
unutilized fund (about US$ 1.0 million) was cancelled. The Credit (including
ADB fund) was committed to 2,448 small and medium industries and created about
28,630 jobs (appraisal estimated 31,400 new jobs) with incremental fixed
investment per job of about US$ 2,032 (appraisal estimated US$ 1,750). The
project contributed 50 percent of the cost of SMI fixed assets during the
period of implementation. The People's Bank (PB) accounted for the largest
number and amount of sub-loans approved followed by the Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
and Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). The two state owned
banks (PB and BOC), together, accounted for about 53 percent of the loan
financing.
3.          The implementation of Credit component was, in general,
satisfactory. The Credit funds mainly financed enterprises in selected
industries in a few urban areas. About 50 percent of sub-projects were
concentrated in Colombo and Gampaha Districts in the Western province. Demand
for sub-project financing in the Northern and Eastern Provinces was low mainly
due to ethnic disturbances and lack of sufficient infrastructures in these
areas. Southern Districts received only about 15 percent of the project
financing, despite SMI-III's emphasis on employment generation in the South.
The sectoral composition and geographical distribution of sub-projects
financed under SMI-III were similar to those under SMI-I and II. The factors
that contributed to this pattern were: (i) continued ethnic disturbances; (ii)
differences in the availability of entrepreneurial development programs and
supporting infrastructure between regions; and (iii) lack of adequate and
effective marketing and technical assistance by public advisory agencies.
4.          SMI-III had a limited impact on rural industrialization and
employment, in particular, in the Northern, Eastern, and Southern provinces.
Over 60 percent of the Credit, by number and amount, was allocated for
expanding existing sub-projects as opposed to investment in new projects.
Although, SMI-III emphasized the development of export-oriented ventures,
relatively small number of sub-projects with direct export impact were
financed. Under the Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS), as of June 30, 1993, the



- iii -
premium collected by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) amounted to Rs 31
million while the guarantee value of the loans in arrears was Rs 134 million.
While it is too early at this point to determine the full cost of CGS, it is
unlikely that CBSL would be able to cover the cost from this scheme.
5.          The National Development Bank (NDB), the apex institution,
continued satisfactory administration of project operations and used the TA
funds to strengthen its capabilities in this area. NDB's monitoring system,
however, lacks an in-built mechanism to collect ex-post data on the financed
sub-projects with regard to their financial and economic benefits. Lack of
adequate follow-up data on sub-project performance has made it difficult for
NDB to carry out an analysis of the project benefits. At the request of IDA,
a survey was conducted by NDB to assess the actual performance of a sample of
sub-projects. The results of this survey of a sample of 100 sub-projects,
financed under SMI-III, indicated that about one-third of the industries
performed below the expected level, were financially unstable, and had poor
sales performance. It should be noted that the performance of the sub-
projects financed under SMI-III has not changed from the previous SMIs with
respect to their profitability and output level.
6.          The TA component focused mainly on improving financial sector
efficiency and the fund was mostly allocated for: (i) restructuring the two
state owned commercial banks (SCBs); (ii) institutional upgrading of the
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) and NDB; and (iii) improving the
supervision capabilities of the Central Bank. In line with the objective of
promoting export-oriented SMIs, the project also supported the Export
Development Board (EDB) in its efforts to introduce, develop, and promote
priority export industries, as well as implement some of the elements of the
Government 1987 trade and industrial policy, in particular, in the area of
export promotion schemes. The TA funds proved to be useful for the PCIs in
upgrading their institutional capabilities. The PCIs/NDB training programs
were successful in helping these institutions to develop the capabilities of
their staff in sub-project appraisal and supervision. However, some of the
funds were used on an ad-hoc basis for training, consultancies, seminars, and
studies, without determining strategy, and the results were ineffective. A
major component of the TA fund was allocated for operational review of the
SCBs with the objective of restructuring the banks in order to enable them to
function as autonomous commercial organizations. While the overall use of TA
funds by BOC has been relatively satisfactory, the impact of TA for PB has
been low, especially in areas such as the management of human resource and
information system. The SCBs implemented some of the recommendations of the
studies, improved the functions of some units, and automated a limited number
of branches. They, however, failed to implement a major restructuring which
was the principal objective of the technical assistance. The result of the
project was not as good as it was expected because of the slippage in the
implementation of financial sector reform program.
7.          Sustainabilit  . Although the project contributed to the expansion
of the SMI sector, the ability of the sub-projects to continue to generate
employment, output, and profit is uncertain. The absence of long-term private
investment funding in the financial sector and the high risk and high
transaction costs, generally associated with SMI lending, suggest that the
volume of SMI financing is likely to decline without the availability of
multilateral funds which are the major source of term financing in Sri Lanka.
In view of the fact that sustainability of the SMI sector is partly dependent
on a sound capital structure of industries (which can be achieved through
higher share of equity participation by the borrower), SMI-III and IV
attempted to encourage the PCIs to become more independent in SMI financing by
decreasing the IDA's financing share to 75 (from 80 percent under SMI-II) and
70 percent, respectively. Although, IDA approved four SMI lines of credit in
the period 1979-1991, it is not clear that the financial institutions,
particularly the commercial banks that participated in these credits, are able



- iv -
to continue to finance SMI without further support from the multilateral
agencies. IDA has been supporting the GOSL's efforts in improving the
financial sector operations for some time. The recently approved ID project,
Private Finance Development Project (PFDP), attempted to help the GOSL in
changing and strengthening the role of financial institutions including the
contractual savings institutions and strengthening the local bond market in
order to mobilize domestic resources for long-term investment. GOSL's success
in implementing the reform programs and addressing the weaknesses in the
domestic resource mobilization will determine whether the commercial banks
would continue to provide term lending to the SMI sector in the absence of
support from multilateral agencies. The sustainability of SMI lending, in the
long-term, depends on the success of the Government in its financial sector
reform program. Unless the commercial banks can channel the domestically
funded term savings to the private manufacturing sector, their term lending
for SMI sector is likely to decline.
8.          Effective implementation of the TA component is key to short-term
success and long-term sustainability of the TA beneficiaries (PCIs, Government
agencies, etc). The Government advisory agencies 1 that link the SMIs with
the financial institutions have been ineffective despite continuous support
from World Bank and ADB. Rationalizing the function of these institutions is
a must for a sustainable SMI sector.
9.          Conclusions and Lessons Learned.  The SMI-III Credit component was
implemented satisfactorily; the TA component, however, was implemented with
mixed results. The project met its objectives in providing term finance for
the development of a large number of small and medium scale industries which
generated a significant number of jobs. The project played an important role
in encouraging more private commercial banks, which accounted for about 47
percent of the market share, to participate in the credit and further increase
their SMI lending activities. The training programs proved to be successful
in capacity building of the staff of the PCIs/NDB and other institutions.
Both NDB and PCIs benefited from the TA funds for expanding and upgrading
their SMI units. The project supported the GOSL's trade and industrial policy
reform programs, in particular, in removing constraints in export credits and
duty drawbacks for indirect exporters in the SMI sector. The project also
helped deepen IDA's dialogue with GOSL on issues affecting the efficiency of
financial sector through an analysis of the operational and financial
viability of the two state owned commercial banks and addressing issues in
prudential regulations and banking supervision.
10.         The project was unable to achieve a number of the objectives both
in sub-project financing (due to prevailing circumstances in the country) and
in TA programs. Like the previous SMI projects, SMI-III did not adequately
contribute to promoting rural industrialization and employment. This was
mainly due to limiting sub-project financing to selected industries in a few
urban areas. Due to the absence of an in-built mechanism for collecting
accurate follow-up data on sub-project performance, there is not much
information available on the financial situation and economic impact of the
sub-projects. Lack of a proper recording system that would automatically
monitor the TA programs affected the satisfactory implementation of the TA.
11.         Lessons learned include: (i) for more systematic and effective
project monitoring (TA and sub-projects), the role of the Apex Institution
needs to be redefined and its capabilities further improved to be able to
carry out an in-depth evaluation of economic impact and financial performance
1/ Such as Ceylon Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR),
Industrial Development Board (IDB), National Engineering for Research and
Development Center (NERDC), etc.



v
of SMI sub-projects; (ii) broader geographical distribution of SMI sub-
projects can only be achieved when adequate industrial infrastructure is in
place, entrepreneur development programs benefit rural areas, and PCIs
effectively utilize their branches for credit delivery; (iii) the SMI sector
is still heavily dependent on external financing due to absence of long term
investment funding in the financial sector, which implies that the volume of
SMI financing is likely to decline without availability of multilateral funds;
therefore, to ensure the sustainability of the SMI sector lending the
financial sector needs to adopt lending to SMIs as part of their long-term
strategy which, in turn, is dependent on the GOSL's success in mobilizing
domestic resources for long-term investment; (iv) the design of the credit
guarantee scheme needs to be improved in order to reduce the risk to the
Central Bank and the need for such scheme should be reviewed further for
future projects; (v) more attention must be given to the design and
implementation of the TA component and to developing an effective monitoring
system to ensure more efficient and successful project implementation; (vi)
both IDA and GOSL should ensure that the PCIs obtain the project documents and
that availability of the TA are widely publicized and disseminated to the
concerned institutions and SMI sector; (vii) steps should be taken to improve
the effectiveness of the experts through better selection process, evaluation
of their performance, and establishing counterparts in the concerned
institution; and (viii) for a more successful operation of an SMI, the role
and effectiveness of the public advisory agencies need to be strengthened;
therefore, to ensure quality services and effective delivery system by these
agencies, efforts should be made at moving these institutions towards demand-
driven support units and providing their services on a cost-sharing basis.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-III)
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project Identitv
Name                 Third Small and Medium Industries Project
Credit Number      : Credit 1860-CE
RVP Unit             South Asia Region
Country              Sri Lanka
Sectors              Finance and Industry
2.          Background
1.01        Sri Lanka has had a long tradition of emphasizing social
development and is characterized by levels of literacy, infant mortality and
life expectancy that are comparable to those of more developed countries. But
its success in generating growth in income and employment has not been
commensurate with its social progress. Economic growth during the early 1970s
was limited by the inefficiencies in the public sector and the insulation of
the domestic market from foreign competition. In late 1977, the Government
initiated a liberalization policy with the objective of increasing the growth
rates of production and employment, saving and investment and exports. To
achieve these objectives, the Government introduced policies which included
liberalization of trade and industrial policies, lifting of foreign exchange
restrictions, and relaxation of regulations on private domestic investment.
The Government further adopted measures to promote exports through
rationalizing the export incentive structure, encouraging non-traditional
export products, streamlining the administrative arrangements for exporting,
and creating of a Free Trade Zone to attract export-oriented foreign private
investment.
1.02        The promotion of the industrial sector in Sri Lanka has long been
part of the Bank's country assistance strategy. To assist the Government in
its efforts to implement the policy reforms and industrial objectives
(industrial growth, employment generation, and higher export earnings from
industry), IDA initiated a series of industrial sector projects starting 1979.
The objectives of these projects were: (i) to provide traditional lines of
credit through the banking system to small, medium, and large scale
enterprises; and (ii) to support the GOSL's policy reform in the areas of
trade policy, industrial incentives, export promotion, public enterprise
efficiency, and financial sector policies.
1.03        The Industrial Sector.  Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base
with the manufacturing sector accounts for about 15 percent of GDP and 45
percent of exports. At the time of the 1983 industrial census, there were
about 100,000 industrial establishments in Sri Lanka. Over 86% of these
employed fewer than five workers. Units with fewer than five employees
accounted for 30% of employment and contributed about 8% of value added and
output with a value added per person of only Rs 7,900 compared to Rs 40,000
for the larger private sector units. Since 1979, the GOSL and IDA have worked
closely together through a number of industrial policy operations to develop
and implement a phased program of trade and industrial policy reform. In
1986, with Technical Assistance (TA) funding from the first Industrial
Development Project (IDP-I), GOSL prepared an Industrial Policy Statement
(IPS) which gave high priority to private industrial development, with



-2-
particular emphasis upon the role of SMIs. Recognizing the importance of the
small scale industries' contribution to value added and employment and their
potential for generating foreign exchange, the Government has taken a number
of measures to remove impediments to their successful functioning. The
Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial performance and
contributed to strong manufacturing growth of 7 percent in 1988-1992.
3.          Project Objectives and Description
1.04        The objectives of the project were to support and complement
previous industrial operations, particularly the two SMI projects, by
providing credit through the banking system to private manufacturing
industries. It also aimed at making further contributions to policy reform
and supporting institutional strengthening for industrial and export promotion
and the financial sector. More specifically the project was to:
o     provide needed term financing for viable SMI projects, with an
emphasis on export-oriented ventures and balancing, modernization,
and rehabilitation of existing enterprises; reconstruction needs
in the Northern and Eastern provinces; and employment generation
in the high unemployment districts in the South;
o     continue the overall institutional development of the
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs);
[     contribute to policy reform and institutional strengthening in the
areas of tariff administration, export promotion and financial
sector operations; and
3     continue the institutional development of SMI technical and
marketing service agencies through the provision of technical and
marketing assistance facilities to SMIs in order to upgrade their
technology and product quality.
1.05        The project had two major components:  (a) a Credit Component of
US$ 15.0 million equivalent for term loans to private sector SMIs; and (b) a
US$ 5.0 million equivalent technical assistance component for: (i) improving
financial sector efficiency through continued training for the PCIs, providing
technical assistance to the two state owned commercial banks to implement
action programs to improve their overall operating/financial efficiency, and
upgrading the evaluation system of the Central Bank's Supervision Department;
(ii) export development through extension of export credit and duty drawback
facilities to indirect exporters; and (iii) improvement of the public
manufacturing enterprises (PMEs) through development of action programs
developed under the IDA funded industrial development projects. An additional
US$ 14.5 million for sub-project financing, and US$ 0.5 million for technical
assistance was provided by ADB through co-financing.
4.          Project Design and Oraanization
1.06        In view of successful IDP and SMI projects lending since 1979
which also supported the Government's broad policy reform program, in early
1987, the GOSL's requested further IDA funds to support small and medium scale
industries. In response to the Government's request, IDA helped GOSL design
the SMI-III project in order to provide needed credit for viable SMI projects
through the financial system and to continue its support for the Government's
trade and industrial sector reform. The GOSL's effective incentives to
facilitate growth in industrial and export credit for SMI, NDB's provision of
refinance for SMI lending, and SMI project promotion training resulted in
substantial increases in the PCI term lending to SMIs. When the SMI-II credit



closed in December 1987 with a substantial number of pending loan applications
for SMI being held with the PCIs, preparation of another SMI facility was
considered appropriate. SMI-III was similar in design to the earlier two SMI
projects. The project, however, initiated action to address some of the major
issues identified in the 1986 joint IMF/IBRD Financial Sector Report with
emphasis on measures to: (i) increase the role of market forces in
determination of interest rates, (ii) improve credit discipline and reduce the
level of the financial system's non-performing assets, and (iii) provide
technical assistance to the state owned commercial banks in order to improve
their overall operating and financial efficiency.
1.07         The size of the SMI-III lending component was geared to the SMI
project lending capacities of the PCIs and met about 23 percent of the total
demand for SMI funding. Together with the ADB co-financing facility, about 50
percent of the needed SMI funding was mobilized by these two multilateral
agencies. The GOSL onlent the US$ 15.0 million project proceeds to NDB for 18
years, including a five year grace period, at an initial rate equivalent to 7
percentage points below the Average Weighted Prime Rate (AWPR) for the
commercial banks for short-term lending operations. In turn, NDB financed
eligible PCIs ' operations at AWPR, less 6 percentage points, giving NDB a
spread of 1 percent to meet the cost of SMI operations. The PCIs relent the
proceeds at 13%-16%, fixed or variable, which was estimated to be sufficient
to cover their costs of operations and the project risks. Given the spread
between the GOSL and IDA on-lending rates, GOSL bore the foreign exchange
risk.
1.08         The PCIs were responsible for appraisal, supervision and
collection of sub-loans of up to Rs 2.0 million and NDB was delegated
authority to approve sub-project applications up to Rs 4.0 million (maximum
sub-loan size). To encourage the PCIs to become more independent in SMI
financing, the IDA's financing share of sub-loans was decreased from 80
percent under SMI-II to 75 percent. The PCIs were to encourage a minimum of
25 percent of sub-project costs be provided by the sponsor in the form of
equity, although the actual equity requirement was determined on a case by
case basis.
5.           Prolect Implementation and Results
1.09         SMI-III for SDR 15.7 million (US$ 20.0 million) was signed on
February 10, 1988, became effective on April 21, 1988 and closed as scheduled
on June 30, 1993. The credit component was fully committed as of December 31,
1990 and fully disbursed as of May 1993 against the appraisal estimate of
December 31, 1992. The TA component was 92 percent committed of which 88
percent was utilized at the time of the project closing; the unutilized fund
(about US$ 1.0 million) was cancelled. In general, the SMI-III project was
implemented satisfactorily; there were, however, issues with respect to the
utilization and implementation of both the Credit and TA components which are
addressed below.
1.10         Implementation and Results of Credit Component. Implementation of
the Credit component was, in general, satisfactory. The credit component of a
total of US$ 29.5 million (inclusive of ADB US$ 14.5 million credit) was fully
committed to 2,448 small and medium industries. The employment impact was
1/ The eligible PCIs were two state owned commercial banks {People's Bank (PB)
and Bank of Ceylon (BOC)}, a development finance institution {Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)}, four private banks {(Hatton National
Bank (HNB), Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC), Sampath Bank (SB), and Seylon
Trust Bank (STB)}, and the Regional Rural Development Bank (RRDB) of
Kurunegala.



-4-
significant; SMI projects created about 28,630 jobs (appraisal estimated
31,400 new jobs) with incremental fixed investments per job of about US$ 2,032
(appraisal estimated US$ 1,750). The project contributed about 50 percent to
the cost of SMI fixed assets during the period of implementation (Annex I).
The PB accounted for the largest number and amount of loans approved followed
by BOC, and DFCC (Annex II). According to the appraisal estimate, 60 percent
of credit component was to be allocated for loans below Rs 1 million; the
allocation was, actually, about 43 percent. Allocation to sub-loan size of Rs
1-2 million was about 26 percent as against the appraisal estimate of 20
percent. The remaining 31 percent was allocated to the sub-projects of Rs 2-4
million (Annex III). This indicates that the average sub-loan size (Rs
464,000) was slightly larger than the appraisal estimate of Rs 450,000. A
larger proportion of Credit, by number and amount, was allocated for expansion
projects as opposed to investments in new projects (Annex II).
1.11        The project mainly financed enterprises in food processing (23.8%)
and garments (13.5%) (accounted for about 63 percent of the manufactured
products during 1988-92), followed by construction material (7.8%), and metal
products (7.0%) (Annex IV). About 65 percent of sub-projects, both in number
and amount, were concentrated in a few districts in Central and Western
provinces: Colombo (33.9%), Gampaha (15.5%), Galle (9.5%), and 4-7% in smaller
towns of Kurunegala, Kandy, Kalutara (Annex V). Demand for sub-project
financing in Northern and Eastern provinces was low mainly due to ethnic
disturbances and lack of sufficient infrastructures in these areas. The
sectoral composition and geographical distribution of the sub-projects
financed under SMI-III project were similar to those under SMI-I & II. The
factors that contributed to this pattern were: (i) continued ethnic
disturbances; (ii) differences in the availability of entrepreneurial
development programs and supporting infrastructure between regions; and (iii)
lack of adequate and effective marketing and technical assistance by public
advisory agencies (CISIR, IDB, NERDC, etc.) to promote investment in a wider
geographical areas. SMI-III had limited impact on promoting rural
industrialization and employment, in particular, in the Northern, Eastern and
Southern provinces.
1.12        Some of the project risks were correctly identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report. The project did not, however, take into consideration the
risk due to ethnic disturbances and its possible escalation. Therefore, one
of the project objectives of reconstruction of Northern and Eastern provinces
could not materialize. In addition, SMI-III specifically aimed at employment
generation in the high unemployment districts in the South. The Southern
Districts received about 15 percent of the project financing for over 330
projects (13.5 percent of projects by number). Although, SMI-III emphasized
the development of export-oriented ventures, relatively small number of sub-
projects with direct export potential were financed; 149 sub-projects
(excluding industries that supply to direct exporters) with an investment
amount of Rs 172 million (15% of committed fund) contributed to exports
(Annex II).
1.13        PCIs/NDB Performance in Project Implementation.  SMI-III project
was built on organizational capabilities developed under SMI-I & II with the
expectation that: (i) the PCIs would further improve their credit, technical,
and marketing services, (ii) NDB would monitor the project implementation more
effectively, and (iii) IDA would provide more frequent supervision visits.
While the PCIs increased the number of trained staff in order to maintain the
standard of appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, they did not make any
effort to provide technical and marketing services to SMIs. The PCIs'
collection performance was improved under SMI-III as opposed to SMI-I & II
mainly due to better sub-project appraisal and supervision. Because of the
escalation of ethnic disturbances during the last quarter of 1988 and mid-
1989, the annual collection rates for DFCC, BOC and PB fell below the minimum
collection rate of 70 percent. This was a transitory problem and by early



-5-
1990 all the PCIs met the minimum collection ratio required by IDA (Annex VI).
NDB continued its satisfactory administration of project operations and by
using the TA funds tried to strengthen its capabilities in this area.
However, these efforts were blunted because NDB's monitoring system lacks an
in-built mechanism to collect ex-post information on the financed sub-projects
with regard to their financial and economic benefits. Although this
shortcoming prevailed for the previous SMI projects as well and the importance
of sub-projects' financial performance and economic impact was recognized by
SMI-III, the project did not address the need for redefining the functions of
NDB to conduct surveys of SMIs after the loans are made. The 1991 supervision
mission, however, impressed upon NDB the importance of establishing an
effective mechanism for collecting information on financial performance and
economic impact of the SMI sub-projects. As mentioned in Part II, efforts are
underway by NDB to improve the data on the economic and financial performance
of the sub-project through conducting surveys of SMIs on a regular basis.
1.14        At the request of IDA, a survey was conducted by the NDB to assess
the actual performance of a sample of sub-projects. A sample of 220 sub-
projects was selected covering completed SMI-I, II, & III projects, and a few
from SMI-IV. The performance of a sample of 100 sub-projects under SMI-III
was separately assessed, the result of which can be summarized as follows: 65
projects were completed within or below the estimated cost; and 35 were
completed with cost overruns mainly due to time taken by the banks to appraise
the sub-projects and comply with legal formalities. In terms of project
performance, out of 100 projects, 67 are operating above or at the expected
level; and 33 are performing below the expected level or temporarily stopped.
With regard to the financial performance, 51 sub-projects provided data of
their sales for two years of operations and calculated their actual profits.
Of these sub-projects, 31 percent achieved profits as planned, 33 percent
achieved profits between 50% and 99% of the estimated profit and the remainder
had profit below 50% of the original estimate. In addition, the survey
concluded that some of the industries encountered difficulties with the high
Business Turnover Tax and Defense Levy, high interest rates charged on SMI
loans, finding adequate skilled labor and quality raw material, and complying
with state formalities and regulation. The results of the survey further
show: (i) that about one-third of the industries performed below the expected
level, were financially unstable, and had poor sales performance, and (ii)
that sub-project performance has not changed from the previous SMIs with
respect to their profitability and output level.
1.15        To Coordinate the implementation of the IDA financed SMI
activities, a Committee was established under SMI-II. This SMI Coordinating
Committee consists of Secretaries of Ministry of Industry, Science and
Technology, Ministry of Textiles, and Ministry of Tourism and Rural
Industries; Director General of Department of National Planning; Chairman of
IDB and EDB; and General Managers of PB and BOC. The role of the Committee
was changed from that of sub-project coordination to policy review under the
SMI-III project. It was responsible for reviewing the quarterly reports
prepared by NDB and other implementing agencies, examining operational and
coordination problems, and making recommendations to GOSL for improving
efficiency in policy implementation. It was also responsible for evaluating
and monitoring the TA programs. The committee has not been effective in
complying with its mandate and had an insignificant role in project
implementation. The committee does not have a proper recording system and
relies basically on the NDB for information on the utilization of TA funds.
1.16        Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS). Under SMI-III, the CBSL issued
3,129 guarantees (including those for SMI loans granted by NDB), between 1989
and 1993, with an aggregate value of Rs 1,312 million. As of June 30, 1993,
of the total 2,380 loans outstanding with a balance of Rs 907 million and
guarantee value of Rs 603 million, 638 with a guarantee value of Rs 134
million fell into arrears. The premium collected by the CBSL amounted to Rs



-6-
31 million. It is too early at this point to determine the full cost of the
CGS under the SMI-III. If no more loans fall into arrears and PCIs can not
collect their loans already in arrears, they would claim them from Central
Bank and, Rs 134 million would represent the maximum liability of the CBSL
under the scheme. Sub-loans with collateral for realization would reduce the
CBSL' liability to the guarantee fund. The other problem that CBSL faced was
the long delay in receiving its shares of recovered loans which, in turn, was
caused by delays in post claims recoveries by the PCIs.
1.17        Implementation and Results of Technical Assistance. The TA program
of US$ 5.5 million (inclusive of US$ 0.5 million provided by ADB) focused on
improving financial sector efficiency (US$ 2.25 million),2 export promotion
and marketing (US$ 0.65 million), short-term technical and productivity
assistance to SMI units (US$ 0.5 million), and assisting the industrial sector
through further trade and industrial policy reform (US$ 2.1 million). About
92 percent of the TA component was committed of which only 88 percent was
disbursed at the time of project closing (Annex VII). The actual allocation
was different from that in the appraisal report. About US$ 2.4 million or 47
percent (as against US$ 1.5 million original allocation) of the TA fund was
allocated to PB and BOC for their restructuring with the objective of making
their operations more efficient. These two banks dominate the banking system
in terms of size and act as market leaders in establishing interest rates.
About US$ 0.9 million was spent on systems improvements and training of the
NDB and PCIs staff. In line with the SMI-III objective of promoting export-
oriented SMIs, the project supported the Export Development Board (EDB) in its
effort to introduce, develop, and promote priority export industries including
leather products, shrimp and prawn culturing, gemstones, and rubber. EDB and
Ministry of Finance also utilized the TA funds to implement some of the
elements of the Government's 1987 trade and industrial policy; with the
objective of extending export credit and duty drawback facilities to indirect
exporters in addition to direct exporters, tariff reform and further improving
the efficiency of the PMEs. The allocation for the Technical Assistance
Facility (TAF), the training programs, and policy reform support had not been
fully utilized, reflecting a reallocation of TA funds in favor of the
financial sector.
1.18        The TA programs funded under the SMI-III were implemented with
mixed results. TA funds were not managed efficiently and the TA activities,
for the most part, were not monitored mainly due to the lack of a routine
follow-up and proper recording system of the beneficiaries. Improvement of
financial sector efficiency was one of the main objectives of the TA component
under SMI-III. The TA to the PCIs/NDB for their training programs helped
these institutions to develop the capabilities of their staff in sub-project
appraisal and supervision. The success of the training program is attributed
to factors such as: NDB's effective management of TA fund for training; design
and content of the courses; clear objective and frequency of the courses;
availability of funds to benefit a large number of staff; commitment of PCIs
in improving the human resources; and staff motivation and career development
objective. The TA fund proved to be useful for the PCIs in upgrading their
SMI units and developing the institutions' technology. However, some of the
funds which were used on an ad-hoc basis for foreign training, consultancies,
seminars, and studies without setting strategy were ineffective.
1.19        A major component of the TA fund was allocated to the two state
owned commercial Banks for their restructuring. The operational review of the
banks (Annex VIII) that started in 1988 under SMI-III and IDP-II was
undertaken by two international consultancy firms. These studies were
continued and further funded under other IDA industrial sector operations
(SMI-IV and IDP-II & III) and completed in 1992. While the use of TA funds by
2/ Figures in parenthesis represent allocation in the Staff Appraisal Report.



-7-
BOC has been relatively satisfactory, the impact of TA for PB has been low.
BOC has taken appropriate actions to implement the recommendations of the
studies to improve the credit policy and procedures. It, however, failed to
implement the recommendations in the area of technology (disregarding the
consultants' recommendations on suitable computer software) and human
resources (fearing adverse reactions from staff unions). BOC has reorganized
the head office and some of the regional offices and is in the process of
reorganizing the branches (out of 287 branches, 31 manual and 36 computerized
branches were reorganized). BOC's Management Information System (MIS) has
also been improved. As for the PB consultancy, the result was not
satisfactory with respect to both the consultants performance and the project
implementation by the bank. No progress has been made on the project
implementation in the areas of the organization structure, human resource
management, and MIS.  Recommendations in the area of credit policy have been
partially implemented and branch reorganization is proceeding slowly (out of
316 branches, 52 were reorganized). While SCBs implemented some of the
recommendations of the studies, improved the functions of some units, and
automated a limited number of their branches, they failed to implement a major
restructuring which was the principal objective of the consultancies. The
result was not as good as it was expected because of the slippage in the
implementation of the financial sector reform program. The SCBs, which also
participated in the SMI-IV credit as PCIs, incurred large operating losses
and, as of December 31, 1991, were technically bankrupt. Therefore, both
banks were suspended from utilizing the credit component of SMI-IV (IDA Credit
2250-CE) as they failed to maintain the capital adequacy requirements for
eligibility as a PCI for that credit. These banks were recapitalized in April
1993.
1.20        To further support GOSL's reform program for improving the
financial sector, in particular in the area of banking supervision and
regulation and implementation of Banking Act (1988), TA was provided to the
CBSL Banking Supervision Department. It was agreed with the GOSL/CBSL and the
IMF that the IMF supervise the implementation of this component on behalf of
IDA. The TA fund was utilized in 198-89 for five studies in the areas of
prudential regulations and banking supervision. No significant improvement
has yet taken place in increasing the effectiveness of central bank
supervision, mainly due to lack of adequate manpower and technical resources
required to implement some of the recommendations. However, the Banking Act
established a number of regulations in the areas of loan classification,
provisioning requirements, and capital adequacy standards which are now being
followed by the banks.
1.21        TA allocated to the Export Development Board was mainly utilized
for undertaking studies on export promotion schemes. Some of the
recommendations derived from the studies were implemented by the GOSL, in
particular those related to the Duty Rebate Scheme, Manufacture-in-Bond
Scheme, and liberalization of exchange control. The ADB funded TA projects
aimed at export development and promotion of export marketing in selected
areas of high export potential. A number of producers and exporters
benefitted from the program through participation in international fairs and
seminars. However, the in-depth assessment of the impact of these programs
(studies and seminars) still needs to be carried out by the EDB. Under the
TAF, partial grants were provided to potential SMI entrepreneurs to finance
eligible and viable "technology sub-projects" such as technical consulting,
technical training programs, and small R&D projects which either introduce new
technology or improve existing technologies in SMIs. NDB was responsible for
appraising the eligibility and viability of each sub-project, submitting
approved proposals for IDA approval, and supervising the project. The TAF has
not been fully utilized, but has achieved its objective. Factors that led to
the underutilization of the fund were: (i) lack of knowledge of how and where
to obtain technology and technical and marketing knowledge, and (ii) lack of
effective and sufficient publicity about the availability of TAF.



-8 -
6.          Prolect Sustainability
1.22        Sub-Projects' Performance. Based on the limited information
available on actual sub-project performance, about two third of industries are
performing as expected with respect to profitability and output level. The
rest are either below the expected level or completely abandoned. Although
the project contributed to the expansion of the SMI sector, the ability of the
sub-projects to continue to generate employment, output, and profit is
uncertain. Project success needs to be evaluated on the basis of a
combination of data before the loans are made and data on the financial
performance and economic impact of the sub-projects after the loans are made.
In the absence of an adequate information system, evaluation is difficult and
less conclusive. PCIs and NDB need to develop their information system in
order to collect necessary information on sub-projects for a more accurate and
in depth evaluation of the SMI sector.
1.23        Participating Credit Institutions. The PCIs are, in general,
financially viable institutions. To improve financial sector efficiency, a
large amount of TA funds under all IDA industrial sector operations were
allocated for restructuring the SCBs. The GOSL, however, has been slow to
embrace the reorganization, citing political constraints to privatization.
Absence of long term investment funding in the financial sector and high risk
and high transaction costs of SMI lending suggest that the volume of SMI
financing is likely to decline without availability of multilateral funds
which are the major source of long-term financing in Sri Lanka. IDA approved
four SMI lines of credit in the period 1979-1991; it is not, however, clear
that the financial institutions, particularly the commercial banks that
participated in these credits, are able to continue to finance SMIs from their
own resources without having access to the multilateral credit lines. IDA has
been supporting the GOSL's efforts in improving the financial sector
operations for some time. The recent IDA's project, PFDP, was designed with
the objectives of helping the GOSL in changing and strengthening the role of
financial institutions including the contractual savings institutions and
strengthening the local bond market in order to increase mobilization of
domestic term savings for term investment. GOSL's success in implementing the
reform program, addressing weaknesses in domestic resource mobilization and
institutional constraints to profitable SMI lending will determine whether the
commercial banks are likely to continue to provide term lending to the SMI
sector in the absence of funds from multilateral sources. In view of the fact
that long-term sustainability of the SMI sector is partly dependent on a sound
capital structure of industries (which can partly be achieved by encouraging
higher share of equity participation by the borrower), SMI-III and IV
attempted to encourage the PCIs to become more independent in SMI financing by
decreasing the IDA's refinancing share to 75 percent and 70 percent,
respectively. Although SMI projects have attempted to achieve a resource
additionality effect by pushing for significant contributions to investment
financing by the sub-borrowers and PCIs, the SMI sector is still heavily
dependent on the external financing.
1.24        Short-term success and long-term sustainability of the TA
beneficiaries (PCIs, NDB, Government agencies) depend on their efficient use
of TA funds and more importantly on the effective implementation of the
projects. The TA beneficiaries need to focus on strengthening the local
ability and be actively involved in the execution of the TA. An important
element in building the capacity to achieve this objective is to provide
qualified counterparts who are involved from the initiation stage of the TA.
The Government agencies (such as IDB, CISIR, etc.) that provide technical and
marketing services to the SMIs have been ineffective despite continuing
support from the World Bank and ADB. Restructuring or strengthening these
institutions is essential for a sustainable SMI sector.



- 9 -
7.          IDA's Performance
1.25        IDA responded quickly to the need for additional financing in SMI
sector in 1987/88. SMI-III followed closely the design of SMI-II and was
prepared to support and complement the objectives of other industrial sector
operations. Given the ambitious objectives and broad scope of the TA programs
with emphasis on policy and institutional development and weak management and
organizational capabilities of the Government agencies, IDA should have
monitored and supervised the TA programs more effectively. Involvement of
staff of the Resident Missions in the projects can contribute significantly to
the effective and systematic monitoring of the TA component. IDA sent seven
supervision missions from project effectiveness (May 1988) to closing with the
last mission in June 1993 just before the project closed.
8.          Borrower Performance
1.26        The performance of NDB and PCIs in the utilization of the credit
component as well as upgrading their SMI units was satisfactory. NDB's
management of the project and collaboration with the missions was also
satisfactory. Although the credit component was committed on schedule and
disbursements were satisfactory, the TA fund, for the most part, was not
managed and utilized efficiently by the TA beneficiaries mainly due to
inefficient organizational capabilities and lack of regular follow-up and
proper recording system. This problem was also addressed in the SMI-II PCR
(February 11, 1992). IDP/SMI Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of Finance and
the SMI Coordinating Committee did not contribute to the effective
implementation of TA under SMI-III.
1.27        The PCIs managed to maintain the eligibility criteria under the
project and effectively channelled the credit component to viable and eligible
SMIs. The TA fund proved to be useful for proper monitoring of their SMI
portfolio. The restructuring of the SCBs in the context of the financial
sector reform did not take place. The impact of the ADB/IDA funded TA
programs for export development and export marketing promotion were not
assessed by the GOSL and was not reported to IDA. In general, the GOSL did
not attempt to assess the benefits and impacts of the TA programs provided
under this project.
9.          Project Relationships
1.28        The GOSL's contribution to the speedy and smooth effectiveness of
the project and excellent co-operation with supervision missions were
instruments to satisfactory implementation of the project. NDB was very
receptive and helpful to the supervision missions and provided timely response
to the IDA's requests throughout the life of the project. Regular reporting
of the status of project implementation by NDB was useful. IDA supervision
missions should have spent more time with the TA beneficiaries with regards to
their utilization of TA funds and perhaps should have identified the
weaknesses in this area from the beginning of the project implementation.
10.         Project Documentation and Data
1.29        In general, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) were adequate and provided a framework for IDA and NDB
during project implementation. However, the SAR did not address some
weaknesses noticed in earlier projects and was not used by some of the PCIs
and TA beneficiaries as a guide for implementation of the project. Some of
the PCIs that have been participating in the SMI schemes did not obtain the
SAR and DCA and were not aware of the content of the project.



- 10 -
1.30        With respect to the credit component, data relevant to the
preparation of the PCR was made available to the Association by NDB.  However,
information relating to the TA was not available in the format requested
mainly due to the poor monitoring and documentation of the TA projects.
11.         Consultina Services
1.31        The consultancies for the restructuring of the BOC and PB were
completed as scheduled. Although the quality of work performed by the
consultants selected by BOC was, in general, adequate and satisfactory, those
for PB did not perform to the satisfaction of the bank. Lack of continuity in
their teams, recommending USA practices without any consideration to local
needs and culture, and overlapping the terms of reference for different stages
of the studies were the main factors for their poor performance. The
consultants provided their services to these banks for a period of four years.
12.         Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.32        The SMI-III Credit component was implemented satisfactorily; the
TA component, however, was implemented with mixed results. The project was
successful in providing needed credit for development of a large number of
small and medium scale industries. The employment impace of the project was
also very significant. The project played an important role in encouraging
the private commercial banks, which accounted for about 47 percent of the
market share, to increase their SMI lending activities. The PCIs, in turn,
benefited from the TA fund for their institutional upgrading and staff
training programs. The project was, to some extent, successful in supporting
the GOSL's trade policy reforms, in particular, in removing the constraints to
export financing and duty drawbacks for indirect exporters in the SMI sector.
The project further deepened IDA's dialogue with GOSL on issues affecting the
efficiency of the financial sector for industrial financing through an
analysis of the operational and financial viability of the two state owned
commercial banks and addressing issues in effective banking supervision and
regulations.
1.33        The project was, however, not able to achieve a number of
objectives both in sub-project financing (due to prevailing circumstances in
the country) and technical assistance programs. The sub-projects financing
was concentrated in selected industries with limited growth and/or export
potential, and were concentrated in urban areas (about 50 percent in Colombo
and Gampaha). Like the previous SMI projects, SMI-III did not adequately
contribute to promoting rural industrialization and employment, in particular,
in the Northern, Eastern, and Southern provinces. Due to the absence of an
in-built mechanism for collecting accurate follow-up data on sub-project
performance, it was difficult to carry out an objective analysis of the
benefits of the project. The technical assistance component was not fully
utilized and did not, in general, achieve its objectives except in few
specific areas such as training and TAF. The SCBs' implementation of their
operational review was far short of expectations.
1.34        The main lessons learned, some of which were brought out by the
earlier PCRs for SMI I & II, are summarized as follows:
i.          The available records of the SMI projects in Sri Lanka indicate
that these projects and associated TA, in general, have been successful in
contributing to the SMI sector growth and efficient employment creation and
could be an effective vehicle for poverty alleviation. An in-depth evaluation
of SMI projects, however, requires better sectoral data on SMI output and
employment through a systematic follow-up study of the sub-projects to
determine the benefits of the project. For a more systematic and effective



- 11 -
project monitoring and evaluation of the economic benefits of sub-projects,
the role of the Apex Institution (NDB) needs to redefined and its capabilities
need to be further strengthened.
ii.         SMI lending remained concentrated in selected industries and a few
urban areas despite efforts at dispersion. It is appropriate for the GOSL to
make efforts to remedy these problems through programs for entrepreneur
development and decentralizing banking and technical services. Also, efforts
should be made by the PCIs to utilize branches more effectively for credit
delivery of such a project.
iii.        Recognizing the importance of the SMIs' contribution to value
added and employment and their potential for generating foreign exchange, a
sustainable expansion of the sector requires that the financial sector adopt
lending to SMIs as part of their long-term strategy and not as a transient
involvement due to the credit lines available from IDA and other multilateral
donors. This can be achieved through improving the efficiency and deepening
the financial system which would enable the commercial banks to channel the
domestically funded savings to the entrepreneurs.
iv.         To reduce the CBSL's loss associated with the credit guarantee
scheme, the design of the scheme needs to be improved and sub-project
appraisal and supervision need to be further strengthened. The GOSL should
further examine the need for such scheme for the future projects.
v.           The TA programs can only make significant contribution to
increasing the overall efficiency when: (i) the program clearly defined for it
to be effectively implemented; and (ii) both IDA and GOSL develop a more
effective and systematic project monitoring and evaluation procedures. In the
case of large TA programs (TA for BOC and PB), slippage in overall reform
program greatly affect the effectiveness of TA. For the long-term,
strengthening needs to begin from the project design and preparation stage.
Alternative approaches (such as freestanding TA) for designing TA programs
should also be examined by IDA and the GOSL.
vi.          Both IDA and GOSL should ensure that the PCIs obtain the project
documents and that availability of the TA funds are widely publicized and
disseminated to the concerned institutions and SMI sector.
vii.         Steps should be taken to improve the effectiveness of the
consultants through better selection process, evaluation of their performance,
strengthening the terms of reference, and establishing counter-part teams in
the concerned institution.
viii.        Despite efforts at strengthening the role and developing the
skills of the staff of the public sector organizations that are engaged in
providing technical and marketing services to the SMIs, deficiencies still
exist due to the quality of services and effectiveness of delivery system
itself. In order to improve the public advisory organizations' efficiency and
responsiveness to private sector demand, efforts should be made at moving
these institutions towards demand-driven support agencies and providing their
services on a cost-sharing basis.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following comments on the Draft Project Completion Report (PCR),
parts I and III, were submitted to the Association on January 24, 1994 by the
National Development Bank which was the apex institution for SMI-III.
We have examined the Project Completion Report for the SMI-III Project
sent under cover of your letter dated December 14, 1993. Our observations on
the salient issues identified in the report, based on NDB's experience as the
apex agency, are set out below:
(a)   Post Sanction Follow-up
The report highlights the fact that NDB's monitoring system lacks an in-
built mechanism to collect ex-post data on the financed sub-projects
with regard to their financial and economic benefits. You may recall
that the reporting formats in the preceding two projects viz. SMI-I and
II included separate reports on sub-project performance. These reports
were to be submitted monthly/quarterly by the PCIs to the NDB. However,
during the formulation stage of SMI-III the submission of all such
reports by the PCIs to the NDB was dispensed with in order to ease the
paper work which the PCIs submitted onerous.
A corresponding effort to place the ex-post data collection
responsibility on the Head Office units of the PCIs as well as on their
regional and district offices has not had much success. Besides ex-post
performance data, we even find it difficult to obtain loan collection
data from the Head Office units resulting in the NDB directly collecting
such data from all the branches of the Banks (numbering approximately
725) twice every year so as to ensure the timely computation of PCI
collection ratios. The NDB attempted to address this shortcoming by
conducting surveys of sub-loan performance on a sample basis.
Accordingly, at the request of IDA a sample of 220 projects were
surveyed obtaining most of the post sanction operational data in the
process.
Since the number of sub-loans under the SMI scheme have now increased to
more than 12600 it would not be practical for NDB to collect ex-post
data on all sub-projects on a regular basis as stated above, since we
would have to collect them ourselves directly from the branches of the
PCIs. It is therefore proposed that we conduct regular quarterly
surveys of all SMI assisted sub-projects taking region by region. The
SMI Department of the NDB can, in addition to conducting the bi-annual
collection data survey, also carry out at least two more surveys every
year. We are also exploring the possibility of making use of the
Industrial Development Board (IDB) to conduct two more surveys on our
behalf in two other regions every year since the IDB is represented in
the regions. We believe they would not only be in a position to
undertake the surveys but would also benefit from the experience since
it would result in a closer interaction with industry.



- 13 -
(b)   Rural Industrialization
The report points out that SMI III had a limited impact on rural
industrialization and employment in particular in the Northern, Eastern
and Southern provinces. This observation is correct. However, it must
be pointed out that the above position is not the result of structural
or other weaknesses in the SMI scheme but one resulting from the weak
demand for credit in these regions. The report correctly points out
that the low demand was in turn the result of continued ethnic
disturbances in North and Eastern provinces, weak industrial
infrastructure and the paucity of entrepreneurship in these regions. A
further observation is that the commercial bank branches in these areas
are located in the urban centers and tend to concentrate on the
relatively larger projects generated in these areas. On the other hand,
the level of entrepreneurship in these areas is best suited to undertake
smaller projects which the Banks are reluctant to finance. Accordingly,
the decision taken to introduce the Regional Rural Development Banks as
PCIs in the SMI-III program is a step in the right direction since these
banks with their field officers are in a better position to handle and
service smaller projects.
(c)   Credit Guarantee Scheme
The report highlights the gap between premia collection and the loan
amount in arrears. Two matters need to be mentioned in this connection.
(i)   Premia were paid by the PCIs quarterly under SMI-TII.  This
has however been changed in SMI-IV. At present premia are paid
initially upfront at the beginning of the year. This should
improve the credit guarantee scheme cashflow with the Central
Bank.
(ii) The loan amount in arrears may not be the actual liability
to the guarantee fund since each sub-loan would have its
collateral for realization.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1860-CE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
Credit Title/Amount                          Purpose                                                       Year of    Status
Approval
Small and Mediuim Industries,                Promote private industrial development focusing on             1979             Closed on
$ 16 m                                       SMI's assistance through addressing constraints                                  6/30/85
(SMI 1) Credit 942-CE                        hindering their rapid growth in order to increase
their contribution to employment generation, export
expansion, and economic growth.
Second Small and Medium                      To support and expand on the SMI I objectives.                 1981             Closed on
Industries Proj., $ 28 m (SMI II)                                                                                            12/31/87
Credit 1182-CE
Industrial Development Project              Provide term credit through DFIs to assist in                  1983              Closed on
(IDP-I), $ 25 m                              strengthening the system of industrial financing,                               9/30/88
Credit 1401-CE                               assist in trade and industrial reforms, and provide
technical assistance to improve selected PMEs.
Second Industrial Development                Provide term credit to finance rehabilitation and              1986             Closing
Project                                      expansion (BMRE) of private firms and selected                                  extended for
S 20 m                                       public manufacturing enterprises and assist in                                  6 more months;
(IDP-II) Credit 1692-CE                      implementation of policy reforms to improve                                     Closing
sectoral performance and institutional development.                             6/30/94
Third Industrial Development                 Complement previous and on-going industrial sector             1989             On-going
Project                                      operations to provide credit through banking system                             Closing
S 43.8                                       to medium- and large-scale private industrial                                   6/30/95
(IDP-III) Credit 1948-CE                     enterprises, support implementation of GOSL's
policy reforms and institutional strengthening.
Fourth Small and Medium                      Complement previous and on-going industrial and               1991              on-going
Industries Project                           financial sector intermediation; to provide credit                              Closing
S 45 m                                       for SMI development and to make further                                          10/31/96
(SMI-IV) Credit 2250-CE                     contributions to policy reform and institutional
strengthening in the area of trade policy
administration and financial sector operations.
Private Finance Development                  Provide investment finance to the private sector;              1993             On-going
Project; USS 60 m                            assist in domestic resource mobilization for long-                              Closing
(PFDP) Credit 2484-CE                        term investment by stimulating the development of                               6/30/99
local bond market; further assist the GOSL in
improving the financiaL sector operations through
strengthening the financial intermediation
including the key players such as contractual
savings institutions.



- 15-
2.           Proiect Time Table
Item                            Date Planned        Actual Date
Identification/EPS               3/1987              3/1987
Appraisal Mission                 6/1987             6/1987
Credit Negotiations             10/1987             10/1987
Board Approval                  12/1987             12/1987
Credit Signature                 2/1988              2/1988
Credit Effectiveness             4/1988              4/1988
Credit Closing                   6/1993              6/1993
Credit Account Closing          10/1993             10/1993
3.           Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Appraisal Estimate              3.0      6.0      10.0    15.0    19.0    20.0
Actual 1/                       0.0      5.9       9.9    17.7    19.5    19.8
Actual as % of                  0.0    98.3       99.0   118.0   102.6    99.0
estimate
1/ Date of final disbursement was June 1993.
4.               Project Implementation
Indicator              Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Number of sub-projects financed                 3,850                   2,448
Average Size of sub-loans                 Rs 450,000              Rs 464,000
(US$   15,000)            (US$ 15,500)



- 16-
5.               Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (Incl. ADB Financing)
US$ Millions
Item                          SAR Estimate                 Actual Utilization
a.  Term loan for SMIs             29.4                           29.4
b.  Technical Assistance            5.5                             4.6
Component
Total                          34.9                           34.0
B. Project Financing (US$. million)
Source                      Planned SAR                            Actual
IDA                           20.0                                19.6
ADB                           15.0                                14.8
Government                     2.0                                 2.0
PCIs                           8.0                                10.2
Sub-borrowers                 10.0                                16.9
Total                         55.0                                63.5
6.    Project Results
Indicator                 Aooraisal Estimate             Actual
a. Employment Generated              31,400              28,630
b. Incremental Cost/Job           US$ 1,750           US$ 2,032
c. Economic/Financial                  NA                  NA
Rates of Return
7.    Status of Covenants
The GOSL and executing agencies were generally in compliance with
covenants.



- 17 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Week)
FY86  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Preparation    1.6   29.0
Appraisal               3.7   18.1
Negotiation                    3.4
Supervision                    5.9   12.3   10.3   10.5   12.7   12.2   0.9
Other                                                                       3.3
Total 1/        2.2   33.7   27.4   12.3   10.3   10.5   12.7   12.2   4.2
1/ The total staff weeks were 125.5.
B. Missions
Stage of           Month/           Date          Rating
Project            Year             of
Cycle                               Return
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision I      7/1988              7/28/1988      -
Supervision II    4/1989               5/11/1989      2
Supervision III  12/1989              12/22/1989      2
Supervision IV   12/1990              12/15/1990      2
Supervision V      8/1991              9/05/1991      2
Supervision VI    6/1992               7/10/1992      2
Supervision VIII  6/1993               6/18/1993      2



Annex I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Sub-Loan Financing (Rs)
IDA            ADB             PCls           Sponsor's Equity   Total
PCls                                                                             Financing
BOC            123,900,093     173,856,002     100,587,367     285,233,528       683,576,990
PB             134,838,605     178,520,469     105,493,524     180,056,957       598,909,555
CBOC            29,188,500      39,897,750      23,028,750      71,766,400       163,881,400
HNB             36,962,632      45,084,750      27,639,127      69,346,846       179,033,355
DFCC           166,904,187      93,235,166      29,066,594     166,722,159       455,928,106
SBL             45,540,004      59,838,095      34,166,032      77,637,421       217,181,552
RRDB-Kur         2,726,250                         908,750       5,368,829         9,003,829
Seylan             750,000       3,937,500       1,562,500       6,116,000        12,366,000
TOTAL          540,810,271     594,369,732     322,452,644     862,248,140      2,319,880,787
% of Total           23.3            25.6            13.9            37.2             100.0



Annex 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Net Refinancing Approval of the Credit Component By the PCIs
IDA                           AD8                                 IDA+ADB                        Projects Contributed
PCls                    Net Approval                  Net Approval                         Net Approval                      To Exports
No.    Amount (Rs)            No.    Amount (Rs)            No.    Amount (Rs)    % Share           No.      Amount (Rs)   % of Total
BOC                       278    123,900,093            452    173,856,002            730    297,756,095      26.2               22    22,162,938       7.4
PB                        383    134,838,605            556    178,520,469            939    313,359,074      27.6               67    78,903,543      25.2
CBOC                       40     29,188,500             47      39,897,750            87      69,086,250      6.1               19    16,461,750      23.8
HNB                        94     36,962.632            109     45,084,750            203     82,047,382       7.2
DFCC                      160    166,904,187            104     93,235,166            264    260,139,353      22.9               24    31,791,855      12.2
SBL                        61     45,540,004             99     59,838,095            160    105,378,099       9.3               13    17,774,000      16.9
RRDB-Kur                   63      2,726.250                                           63      2,726,250       0.2                2        93,750       3.4
Seylan                      1        750,000              1      3,937,500              2       4,687,500      0.4                2     4,687,500     100.0
TOTAL                    1080    540,810,271          1,368    594,369,732          2,448   1,135,180,003    100.0              149   171,875,336      15.1
New Projects            327    204,200,425             468    237,493,038            795     441693463       38.9               62    70,299,723      40.9
Expansion Projects       753    336,609,846            900    356,876,694           1653      693486540      61.1               87   101,575,613      59.1



Annex III
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Size Distribution of Sub-Loans by PCIs
PCls                Rs 0-500,000                 Rs 500,000 to                   Rs 1,000,000 to                   Rs 2,000,000 to                            TOTAL
Rs 1,000.000                   Rs 2,000,000                      Rs 4,000,000
No.   Amount (Rs)  Y/ Share      No.   Amount (Rs)   % Share       No.   Amount (Rs)   % Share       No.   Amount (Rs)   0/0 Share        No.    Amount (Rs)           O
BOC           521    90,878,273     32.9        115    62,893,263     30.0         56    62.113,992     21.3         38     81,870,567     22.9           730   297,756,095
PB            754   113,478,370     41.1         75    43,193,632     20.6         71    75,309,459     25.8         39     81,377,613     22.8           939   313.359,074
CBOC           37      8.740,500     3.2         20    11,581,500      5.5         19    22,728,750      7.8         11     26,035,500      7.3            87    69,086,250
HNB           141    20,281,575      7.3         35    18,687,307      8.9         15    16,258,500      5.6         12     26,820,000      7.5          203    82,047,382
DFCC           88    22.033,931      8.0         77    51,907,953     24.8         64    86,659,504     29.7         35     99,537.965     27.8           264   260.139,353
SBL            77    17,858.045      6.5         39    20,666,618      9.9         27    28,941,252      9.9         17     37.912,184     10.6           160   105,378.099
RRDB-Kur       63      2.726,250     1.0                                                                                                                   63     2,726,250
Seylan                                            1       750,000      0.4                               0.0          1      3,937,500      1.1             2     4,687.500
TOTAL        1681   275,996,944    100.0        362   209,680.273      100        252   292,011,457      100        153    357,491,329     100          2,448  1.135,180,003
tt of Total    68.7        24.3                14.8          18.5                10.3          25.7                 6.3           31.5



Annex IV
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Sectoral Distribution of Sub-Loans
IDA                          ADB                            IDA + ADB
Main Sectors                                   No.    Amount (Rs)            No.    Amount (Rs)           No.    Amount (Rs)     % Share
Food Processing, Beverage and Tobaco              218      121,700,362          305    147,963.463           523     269,663,825     23.8
Textiles                                           24       16,670,025           38      25,098,402           62      41,768,427      3.7
Garments                                           104      69,555,365          134      83,874,566          238     153,429,931      13.5
Metal Products                                    114       41,931,396          113      37,155,922          227      79,087,318      7.0
Construction Materials                             92       34,509,607          164      54,387,464          256      88,897,071      7.8
Rubber Products                                    32       28,524,382           32      27,444,188           64      55,968,570      4.9
Wood and Wood Products                              84      30,839,675           97      26,341,090          181      57,180,765      5.0
Leather and Allied Products                         16       5,013,000           18       5,201,243           34      10,214,243      0.9
Plastic Products                                   10        7,230,000           25      19,990,702           35      27,220,702      2.4
Printing and Paper Products                        49       36,931,465           44      19,392,199           93      56,323,664      5.0
Chemical and Chemical Products                      17      11,680,050           17       7,392,288           34      19,072,338       1.7
Agro Industries                                    35        9,678,236           43      14,418,581           78      24,096,817      2.1
Fisheries                                           9        2,973,750           18      10,756,760           27      13,730,510       1.2
Animal Husbandry/Horticulture                      70       22,090,647           77      20,186,796          147      42,277,443      3.7
Construction Contracting                            11       6,432,000            8       3,685,275           19      10,117,275      0.9
Services                                           63       27,889,010           51      19,089,075          114      46,978,085      4.1
Miscellaneous                                      57       34,463,176           72      32,807,593          129      67,270,769      5.9
Transport/Storage and Communication                75       32,698,125          112      39,184,125          187      71,882,250      6.3
Total                                            1,080     540,810,271         1,368    594,369,732         2448    1,135,180,003    100.0



Annex V
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Geographical Distribution of Sub-Loans
IDA                         ADB                   IDA + ADB
Districts                   No.    Amount (Rs)          No.    Amount (Rs)          No.    Amount (Rs)    h Share
Amparai                          2       517,500             3      2,277,000            5       2,794,500      0.2
Kalutara                       47      39,381,421           59     36,295,875          106      75,677,296      6.7
Kandy                           69      22489693            75     22,027,666          144      44,517,359      3.9
Kegalle                         14      4,862,250           20      6,759,750           34      11,622,000      1.0
Kilinochchi
Kurunegala                     131     26,024,492          134     36,039,000          265      62,063,492      5.5
Matara                         37      14,805,980           62     32,842,162           99      47,648,142      4.2
Mannar                           2      1,380,000                                        2       1,380,000      0.1
Matale                           3      1,343,400           25      6,879,750           28       8,223,150      0.7
Mneragala                        5      1,614,675            8        945,658           13       2,560,333      0.2
Mullaitivu
Anuradhapura                   41       8,737,316           60     14,341,334          101      23,078,650      2.0
Nuwara-eliya                    14      7,306,582           20     14,391,750           34      21,698,332      1.9
Polonnaruwa                     16      6,052,613           21      4,982,062           37      11,034,675      1.0
Puttalam                        72     30,360,950          135     53,831,913          207      84,192,863      7.4
Ratnapura                       31     15,867,111           48     24,947,700           79      40,814,811      3.6
Trincomalee                      3      1,657,500            2        637,500            5       2,295,000      0.2
Vavuniya
Badulla                        29       6,112,687           35      6,488,363           64      12,601,050      1.1
Batticalloa                      1       112,500                                         1         112,500      0.0
Colombo                        319    205,522,674          312    179,352,544          631     384,875,218     33.9
Galle                           80     55,343,861          113     52,952,583          193     108,296,444      9.5
Gampaha                        144     83,049,116          214     93,085,872          358     176,134,988     15.5
Hambantota                     18       7,707,250           21      4,391,250           39      12,098,500      1.1
Jaffna                           2       560,700             1        900,000            3       1,460,700      0.1
Total                        1,080    540,810,271        1,368    594,369,732        2,448   1,135,180,003    100.0



Annex VI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Collection Performance of the PCIs
Kurunegala  Kegalle   Kandy           ALL
BOC      PB        DFCC    CBOC    HNB           SB       STB       RRDB       RRDB    RRDB              PCls
Cummulative Collection Ratio (f) 1/
June 30, 1993                            90.2      89.7     90.4      966       90.2     85.3      96.3         na       na        na             86.0
Dec. 31,1992                             80.5     84.4      90.7      94.7      93.5     83.2      94.7       86.3      98.6    100.0             86.6
June 30,1992                             79.7      85.6     92.0      96.2      94.2     83.3    100.0        88.7      97.3    100.0             86.6
Dec. 31,1991                             80.8     85.8      86.4      95.8      96.8     93.7      73.8       93.4      96.6                      86.0
June 30, 1991                            80.7      83.4     88.8      91.4      95.8     93.7                 90.2                                88.8
Dec. 31, 1990                            87.9     85.4      88.0      92.1      98.2     93.5                 77.4
Annual Collection Ratio () 1/
June 30, 1993                            76.4      72.8     78.3      90.4      79.5     60.7      96.1         na       na        na             73.3
Dec. 31, 1992                            63.3     69.3      83.1      88.6      87.0     68.2      96.6       78.9      98.9    100.0             78.5
June 30, 1992                            65.7      77.1     86.5      93.7      90.4     82.4    100.0        85.9      97.9    100.0            -81.2
Dec. 31,1991                             69.2      81.2     83.2      93.8      95.1     92.7      92.5       94.3      97.0     92.5             82.7
June 30, 1991                            74.0      80.4     86.7      89.7      94.0      94.3                92.4                                87.0
Dec. 31,1990                             83.5      83.4     89.0      91.4      96.9     93.4                 87.7
Principal Infection Ratio (OA) 1/
June 30,1993                             28.3      27.8     24.3       8.9      12.0     30.1       0.0        na        na        na             28.9
Dec.31,1992                              36.9      29.4     24.3      13.9      14.3     38.6       0.0       28.3       0.0      0.0             21.2
June 30,1992                             34.9      20.0     15.2       2.8       5.4     24.6                 13.6       0.0                      14.2
Dec. 31,1991                             25.1      13.1     15.1       2.7       3.4      2.9                  4.1                                10.5
June 30, 1991                            17.0      10.7     11.1       4.4       2.7      2.0                  1.2                                 6.0
Dec. 31,1990                              8.6       6.7      7.1       1.4       0.3      2.1
1/ Minimum Bank reuirement for cumulative and annual collection ratio was 70%.
The maximum Bank requirement for principal infection ratio was 20%.



Annex VIl
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Allocation and Utilization
Beneficiary                            TA                       Amount           Amount                 Amount utilized
Institutions                           Programs                Allocated 11      Utilized               as % of allocated
(SDR)            (SDR)
National Development Bank and          Training                       687,733         576,261                     84%
Participating Credit Institutions
Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank       Consultancies                1,877,820       1,799,540                     96%
for operational
review
Central Bank of Sri Lanka
- Development Finance Department      Training                        75,760          70,022                     92%                               l
- Banking Supervision Department      Consultancy                    157,150         106,414                     680/o
for operational
improvement
Export Development Board               Consultancy for                 99,912          82,492                     83%
export promotion
and trade policy
Partial Grant to SMI Units             Technology Transfer            295,702         215,471                     73%
Fund (TTF)
Ministry of Finance and                Studies, Training,             469,239         382,503                     82%
Ministry of Policy Planning and        and consultancies
Impimentation
Total                                                              3,663,316       3,232,703                     88%
1/ The total original allocation was SDR 4.0 million.



- 25 -
ANNEX VIII
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
People's Bank Operational Review
Under the TA component of IDP-II & III and SMI-III & IV, PB received a
total of US$ 2.4 million for its Operational Review (OR) of all aspects of the
Bank's activities. The work was done by an international consulting firm in
four Phases.
Phase I (June 20, 1988 to August 25, 1988) -- This phase involved
carrying out a diagnostic study to identify shortcomings in critical areas and
providing recommendations for improvement. Specifically, this phase was to
review and improve: (i) the organization structure and operating system; (ii)
the accounting system and the MIS; (iii) credit policy, credit analysis; and
credit supervision; (iv) the status of automation; and (v) Bank's personnel
policy. Funded under credit 1860-CE (SMI-III).
Phase II (May 14, 1990 to 31 August 1990) -- This phase was to implement
the findings and recommendations of Phase I. The consultants provided a
proposal regarding operational structure and role of Senior Management which
is yet to be revised and finalized. The consultants also prepared four
manuals; namely, Operational Manual, Human Resource Management Manual, General
Ledger Manual, and Int,r Branch System Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase III (was done at the same time as Phase II) -- Consultants
reviewed the credit portfolio as at December 31, 1990 and prepared a Credit
Policies Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase IV (June 19, 1991 to August 8, 1992) -- The work focused on: (i)
improving procedures for processing international transactions (under
implementation); (ii) improving the procedures for credit processing (yet to
be introduced into branch network); and (iii) proposing an independent and
centralized treasury (implemented by creating a treasury department). Funded
under credit 1692-CE (IDP-II) and 2250-CE (SMI-IV).
Bank Of Ceylon Operational Review
Under the TA components of the four projects, BOC received about US$ 2.6
million for its operational review. The consultancy started in June 1988.
The objectives of TA were to re-design the structures of the Bank in order to
make the bank functions more efficiently in all aspects of its activities.
The consultants worked on six broad programs over a period of four years.
1) Head office and province office organization, design, and
implementation.
2) Branch operations restructuring.
3) Credit policy (manuals, Sick Industries Clinic, etc.).
4) Human resource Development and performance management.
5) Management Information System (MIS).
6) Technology (5 year Tech. plan, purchase of software, improve customer
services in branches, standardization of computer functionality in
branches, etc.).



