Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1860 CE
            (Third Small and Medium Industries Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 10, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1860 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February   10,  1988,  between  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  from the  Asian  Development  Bank  (ADB),  the Borrower
intends to contract a loan (the  ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to SDR 11,646,000 to assist in  financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in  an  agreement  (the  ADB Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADB;  and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "First Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Small and Medium Industries Project) between the Borrower and the
Association dated July 24, 1979,  and "Second Agreement" means the
Development Credit Agreement  (Second  Small and Medium Industries
Project)  between   the   Borrower   and   the  Association  dated
February 5, 1982;
     (b)  "NDB" means the  National  Development  Bank of the Bor-
rower established under the  National  Development Bank Act, No. 2
of 1979;
     (c)  "SMI Fund" means  the  Small  and Medium Industries Fund
established pursuant to the provisions  of Section 3.02 (b) of the
First  Agreement  and  operating   under   the  First  and  Second
Agreements;
     (d)  "Participating Credit  Institution"  means  the  Bank of
Ceylon, Commercial Bank of Ceylon, Development Finance Corporation
of Ceylon, Hatton  National  Bank,  People's  Bank,  and any other
state  or  privately   held   credit  institution  established  or
operating under the laws of the Borrower, which has entered into a
participation agreement with  NDB  pursuant  to  the provisions of
Part 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Small and Medium  Size  Industry"  means any enterprise
privately or cooperatively owned, with  plant and equipment with a
book  value  (excluding   land   and   buildings)   of  less  than
Rs 4,000,000, prior to the granting of a Sub-loan;
     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Credit Institution in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and which is or proposed to be refinanced by the
proceeds of the Credit;
     (g)  "Sub-project" means a  sub-project  for which a sub-loan
is made or proposed to be  made by a Participating Credit Institu-
tion under the Project;
     (h)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the said agreement may  be amended from time to time
with the consent of the Association;
     (i)  "Statement of Policy"  means  the  statement of strategy
and policy for SMI  operations  as  adopted  and approved by NDB's
Board of Directors;
     (j)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "AWPR" means the Average  Weighted  Prime Rate, an index
of interest rates charged by  the  commercial banks to their prime
customers; such index is compiled  and published on a weekly basis
by the Central  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka.    For  the purposes of this
Page  3
Agreement, the initial AWPR  to  be  applied  will  be the AWPR in
force on the Effective Date,  and the Borrower and the Association
may mutually agree to substitute another index or indicator;
     (l)  "Cumulative Principal Collection  Ratio" means the ratio
of  (i)  total  principal   collections  to  date  from  Sub-loans
refinanced from the SMI Fund  to (ii) total principal installments
due on Sub-loans refinanced from the SMI Fund;
     (m)  "Annual Collection Ratio" means  the ratio of (i) annual
cash collections to (ii)  total  collectibles for the period under
consideration;  for  the   purposes   of  this  Agreement,  "total
collectibles" means assets  at  the  beginning  of the period plus
current dues during the  period less repayments rescheduled during
the period;
     (n)  "Principal Infection Ratio" is  defined  as the ratio of
(i) total principal outstanding for  loans which are in arrears of
six months or more, to (ii) total principal outstanding; and
     (o)  "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen  million  seven  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for expenditures made (or, if  the  Association shall so agree, to
be made): (i) in respect of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project;
and (ii) in respect of  the  reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts B, C and  D  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  A free-limit Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan for a Sub-
project in an amount to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit which shall not exceed  the  sum of Rs 4,000,000 equivalent
when added to any  other  outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed for  such  Sub-project  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit, provided, however, that no  amount shall be withdrawn from
the  Credit  Account  unless  (A)  the  Sub-loan  shall  have been
approved by the Association or  (B)  the Sub-loan shall be a free-
limit Sub-loan for  which  the  Association  shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.   NDB shall in turn authorize
refinancing to the Participating  Credit Institutions on the basis
of NDB's prior approval of  Sub-loans  of Rs 2,000,000 or more for
all Participating Credit  Institutions  other than the Development
Finance  Corporation  of  Ceylon.    For  Sub-loans  of  less than
Rs 2,000,000  in  the  case  of  Participating Credit Institutions
other than the Development Finance  Corporation of Ceylon, and for
Sub-loans of less than Rs 4,000,000 in the case of the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon, the NDB shall authorize refinancing
to a Participating Credit  Institution  within two weeks following
application from such Participating Credit Institution and without
undertaking a further review  of  the Sub-project's commercial and
economic viability.
     (c)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for  approval, the Borrower shall furnish
or cause to be  furnished  to  the  Association, an application in
form  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  together  with:  (i)  a
description  and  appraisal  of  the  Sub-project,  including  the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed  terms  and  conditions of the Sub-loan,
Page  4
including the amortization schedule  thereto; and (iii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
     (d)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain:  (i)  a  summary  description  of the Sub-
project, including the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;  and  (ii) the terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan.
     (e)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower  of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15,  1998  and  ending  October  15,  2027.  Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
October 15, 2007  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  5
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The General Manager  of  NDB, or such person or
persons as NDB shall appoint  in  writing, is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried  out,  with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity  with  appropriate administrative, financial and
industrial practices, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to  carry  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to NDB  for the account of SMI Fund, the
equivalent in rupees of  such  amounts  as shall be withdrawn from
the Credit Account under Category  (1)  of  the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule  1  to  this Agreement, under a subsidiary
loan  agreement  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the
Association including  those  set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained: (i) the accounts and  financial statements of NDB; and
(ii) records and separate  accounts  adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with sound  accounting  practices  the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of  the  Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
Page  6
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The National Development Bank Act,  No. 2 of 1979, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as,
in the  judgment  of  the  Association,  to  materially affect the
carrying out of the Project  or the operations or financial condi-
tion of NDB.
     (b)  A change shall  have  been  made  in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement without the Association's consent.
     (c)  A change shall have been made in the Statement of Policy
without the Association's consent.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NDB or SMI Fund,  or  for the suspension of the operations
of NDB or SMI Fund.
     (e) The ADB Agreement  shall  have failed to become effective
by June 30, 1988, or such later date as the Association may agree,
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if  the  Borrower  establishes  to  the  satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds  for  the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  7
     (f)  (i)  Subject to  subparagraph  (ii)  of  this paragraph:
               (A) The right of the  Borrower to withdraw the pro-
               ceeds of the  ADB  Loan  shall have been suspended,
               cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,
               pursuant to the terms of  the ADB Agreement, or (B)
               the ADB  Loan  shall  have  become  due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement, and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (d)  and  (e) of
Section 5.O1 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  any events specified in  paragraphs  (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  any events specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.O1 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  has  been entered into by
the Borrower and NDB; and
     (b)  agreements have been entered  into  by NDB with at least
two Participating Credit Institutions  in accordance with the pro-
visions of Part 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association, namely,  that the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally bind-
ing upon the Borrower and NDB in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
5.O2 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which the Development Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on the
date twenty years  after  the  date  of  this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Page  8
Agreement, the Secretary, Ministry of  Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Finance and Planning
           Democratic Socialist Republic of
             Sri Lanka
           Colombo, Sri Lanka
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                SECMINFIN                      FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                        FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                          OF SRI LANKA
                        By /s/ Susanta de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
Page  9
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Part A of                  11,700,000       100% of SMI
     the Project                                 refinancing
(2)  Equipment,                    500,000       100% of foreign
     vehicles and                                expenditures;
     materials                                   100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory);
                                                 and 80% of other
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures
(3)  Training, con-              3,500,000       100%
     sultants and
     technical
     services
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 15,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless  the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and condi-
tions set forth or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; or
     (c)  except as the Borrower  and the Association shall other-
wise agree, on account of expenditures in respect of a Sub-loan if
such expenditures shall have been made more than 120 days prior to
the date on which NDB shall  have received in respect of such Sub-
loan the application and information  required by Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement or,  in  respect  of a free-limit Sub-loan, more
than 120 days prior to the  date  on which NDB shall have received
in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the request and information
required by Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of  the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower's
continuing program to  develop  small  and medium size enterprises
through the provision  of  credit  and  the improvement of support
systems.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Sub-loans
Page  10
     A program by NDB through  the SMI Fund to refinance Sub-loans
by Participating  Credit  Institutions  to  small  and medium size
enterprises.
Part B:   NDB and Participating Credit Institution
          (i)  Improvement of NDB, the  SMI Fund and Participating
               Credit Institution staff  by  continuing to develop
               the capabilities  in  small  and medium enterprises
               project identification,  appraisal and supervision;
               and
         (ii)  Review of the  operating  system  and procedures of
               the Bank  of  Ceylon  and  the  Peoples'  Bank, and
               implementation  of  agreed  recommendations arising
               from such reviews.
Part C:   Central Bank of Sri Lanka
     Upgrading of banking supervision capabilities.
Part D:   Export Promotion and SMI Technical Assistance
          (i)  Establishment  of  a  fund  for  the  promotion  of
               exports; and
         (ii)  Establishment of a facility  to provide funding for
               technical and management  consultancy for small and
               medium enterprises to improve productivity.
Part E:   Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
          (i)  Upgrading of Tariff Commission capabilities;
         (ii)  Implementation  of   recommendations  flowing  from
               ongoing reviews  of  selected  public manufacturing
               enterprises;
        (iii)  Assistance  to   the   Presidential  Commission  on
               Privatization  to  evaluate  alternatives  for  the
               privatization  of   selected  public  manufacturing
               enterprises; and
         (iv)  Assistance to the Ministry  of Finance and Planning
               to review the proposal  to implement a transferable
               tax credit system, and  to extend duty drawback and
               export credit facilities to indirect exporters.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
          Terms for On-lending, Refinancing and Sub-loans
A.   Terms for On-lending by Borrower to NDB
1.   Interest rate                   :     AWPR less a spread of
                                           7% per annum
2.   Amortization period             :     18 years,  inclusive of
                                           5 years of grace
3.   Foreign exchange risk           :     to be borne by Borrower
B.   Terms for Refinancing Sub-loans by NDB
1.   Interest rate                   :     AWPR less a spread of
                                           6% per annum
Page  11
2.   Amortization period             :     maximum  of  10  years,
                                           inclusive of 2 years of
                                           grace
3.   Initial Amount of refinancing   :     up to 75%  of amount of
                                           each    Sub-loan   with
                                           annual     review    of
                                           utilization
C.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Interest rate                   :     to be determined by the
                                           respective  Participat-
                                           ing Credit Institution
2.   Amortization period             :     3 to 10 years including
                                           grace     periods    of
                                           3 months to 2 years
3.   Maximum size of borrowing       :     Rs 4,000,000 in total
     enterprise                            fixed  assets  at  book
                                           value  (excluding  land
                                           and buildings) prior to
                                           granting of Sub-loan
4.   Maximum Sub-loan size           :     Rs 4,000,000 (except as
                                           the   Association   may
                                           otherwise determine)
5.   Minimum equity contribution     :     25%    of   Sub-project
                                           amount
D.   Adjustment of Terms
     The mechanisms for  establishing  interest  rates and spreads
for paragraphs  A.1  and  B.1  above,  shall  be  reviewed on each
January 1  and  July  1  and,  if  necessary,  adjusted,  based on
procedures agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
     The actual rate charged to  NDB  by  the Borrower, and to the
Participating Credit Institutions  by  NDB,  shall be amended each
January 1 and July 1.    The  initial  interest rates shall be the
AWPR in force on the Effective  Date less the spreads indicated in
paragraphs A.1 and  B.1  above.    Subsequently  the interest rate
shall be the average AWPR  prevailing  over the previous six month
period less the spread indicated in paragraphs A.1 and B.1 above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   For the purposes of  carrying  out  the Project, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  maintain the Project  Coordinating Committee established
under the First Agreement and operating under the First and Second
Agreements, with such membership  and  terms of reference as shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
     (b)  cause NDB to maintain the  SMI Fund with: (i) an organi-
zational structure  satisfactory  to  the  Association; (ii) staff
whose numbers, qualifications  and  experience are satisfactory to
the Association; and (iii)  accounting  procedures and a statement
of  policies  and   operating   procedures   satisfactory  to  the
Association;
     (c)  cause NDB, from time to time, to provide such additional
capitalization funds to the SMI  Fund  as  may be required to meet
the operational  needs  of  the  SMI  Fund,  and  consult with the
Association prior to the appointment  of  a new General Manager of
NDB and prior to making  any  significant amendments to the policy
Page  12
statements; and
     (d)  ensure that the Participating Credit Institutions retain
responsibilities satisfactory to  the  Association  for lending to
small and medium size industries.
2.   The Borrower shall cause NDB to:
     (a)  apply procedures and criteria  satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation in NDB's review of  a  Sub-project appraisal by a Partici-
pating Credit Institution for a  Sub-loan  to be refinanced by the
SMI Fund under the Project;
     (b)  approve and refinance a Sub-loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to  the  Association,  including  those  set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  cause   the   Participating   Credit   Institutions   to
incorporate simple indicators  of  economic  impact  in their Sub-
project appraisals including expected  fixed costs per job created
and the percentage of raw materials of local origin.
3.   The Borrower  shall  cause  the  Small  and Medium Industries
Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Borrower's Central Bank to be main-
tained in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  The
Central Bank of Sri Lanka  and  NDB shall undertake a joint review
of the financing  and  operations  of  the Credit Guarantee Scheme
within two months  of  the  Effective  Date  with  an objective of
reviewing the basis for the premium charged, the scope of coverage
of  guarantee  provided  and  the  administrative  aspects  of the
scheme's operation.  Findings  of  the  review  agreed to with the
Association  and  ADB  will  be  implemented  within  a time-frame
satisfactory to the Association and ADB.
4.   The Borrower shall cause NDB  to enter into an agreement with
each Participating Credit Institution providing for its participa-
tion in the Project, on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   The Borrower shall cause  NDB  to  lend  SMI Fund proceeds to
Participating Credit Institutions if  the performance of each such
Participating  Credit  Institution  satisfies  the  entry criteria
described below:
     (a)  maintain a minimum Cumulative Principal Collection Ratio
of  seventy  percent   (70%)   on   the   portfolio  of  loans  of
Participating Credit Institutions refinanced from the SMI Fund;
     (b)  maintain a minimum  Annual  Collection  Ratio of seventy
percent (70%) on  the  SMI  portfolio  refinanced by Participating
Credit Institutions excluding  the  portfolio refinanced under the
First Agreement, calculated semiannually on a rolling twelve month
basis;
     (c)  maintain a maximum  Portfolio  Infection Ratio of twenty
percent (20%) within the SMI portfolio refinanced by Participating
Credit Institutions excluding  the  portfolio refinanced under the
First Agreement; and
     (d)  employ  on   Small   and   Medium   Industry  activities
appropriate levels of operational staff.
6.   (a)  After commencing  to  participate  in  the Project, each
Participating Credit  Institution  shall  continue  to satisfy the
performance entry criteria  which  shall be monitored semiannually
and modified if appropriate  by  mutual  agreement of the Borrower
and the Association. If any Participating Credit Institution fails
to satisfy the above  specified criteria, the Association reserves
the right to  suspend  Sub-loan  authorizations  under the Project
until the  Participating  Credit  Institution  has  taken specific
steps to address  its  problems  in  a  manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Page  13
     (b)  To ensure an  even  utilization  of  the  Credit and ADB
Loan, the Borrower shall  cause  NDB  to apply for withdrawals for
the SMI Fund from the Association and ADB on a basis proportionate
to the relative contribution  of  the  Association  and ADB to the
financing of Part A of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
     (a)  under Part A of  the  Project,  the Borrower shall cause
NDB to establish procedures to ensure that: (1) the goods procured
locally shall be purchased  at  reasonable and competitive prices,
due account being taken  also  of  other  relevant factors such as
time of delivery, quality and  reliability of the goods and avail-
ability  of  maintenance  facilities  and  spare  parts  therefor;
(2) the  contracts  for  goods  estimated  to  cost the equivalent
of  $100,000  or  more  each  shall  be  awarded  through  limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible  under  the  "Guidelines  for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance  with  the  procedures set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof); and  (3)  the contracts for goods procured
outside the Borrower's  territory  and  estimated  to cost $20,000
equivalent or more shall be awarded through international shopping
on the basis of price  quotations  from at least three independent
suppliers; and
     (b)  under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, goods shall be
procured in  accordance  with  the  procurement  procedures of the
Borrower satisfactory to the Association.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in  accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory  to  the  Association  on  the  basis  of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement, pro-
vided, however, that payments for  expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of  free-limit  Sub-loans  may  be made out of the
Special Account before the Association shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Credit Account  in respect thereof. Such expendi-
tures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the
Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
Page  14
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 1,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the               
General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
Page  15
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
