Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20257-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR
PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE
June 5, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Ofrice



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
DAI = US$ 0.013
US$ I = DA75
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAD             =                     Banque Algerienne de Developpement
CNPE            =                     Conseil National des Participations de l'Etat
FMS                                   Financial Management System
LACI            =                     Loan Administration Change Initiative
MPCR           =                      Ministry of Participation & Coordination of
Economic Reforms
PA             =                      Privatization Agency
PIU             =                     Project Implementation Unit
PMR            =                      Project Management Report
PSD            =                      Private Sector Development
SOE            =                      Statements of Expenditures
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Wafik Grais
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Axel Peuker



ALGERIA
PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective ...........................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ...........................................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................2
3. Learning  and  development issues to  be addressed  by  the project ..................................................6
4. Learning and innovation expectations ...........................................................6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .....................................7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................................8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ...................................9
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic ...................................9
2. Financial ...................................9
3. Technical ...................................9
4. Institutional ...................................9
5. Environmental ..................................                                                                                                          10
6. Social ..................................                                                                                                                  10
7. Safeguard Policies ...................................11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ..................................                                                                                                         12
2. Possible controversial aspects ..................................                                                                                         12
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition .................................                                                                                                12
2. Other ......12



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                         13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                        13
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .14
Annex 2: Project Description .16
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .17
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .18
(not applicable)
Annex 5: Financial Summary .19
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .20
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule .28
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .29
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .30
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ......................                                           32
MAP



ALGERIA
Privatization Assistance
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSPF
Date: June 5, 2000                                 Team Leader: Axel R. Peuker
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie        Sector Manager/Director: Wafik Grais
Project ID: P070123                                Sector(s): BP - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan          Cl Credit       a Grant          O Guarantee     El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 3                                 Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%                                   Service charge: 0.00%
Financing P-lan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       0.50            0.00          0.50
IBRD                                                             0.00            5.00          5.00
Total:                                                           0.50            5.00          5.50
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PARTICIPATION & COORDINATION OF REFORMS (MPCR)
Address: 11 rue Ibn Baddis El Mouaiz, El Biar, Algiers, Algeria
Contact Person: His Excellency Harmid Temmar, Minister of Participation and Coordination of Reforns
Tel: (213-2) 92-60-96/92-98-68               Fax: (213-2) 92-17-55
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY   -       2001   '   2002  -       2003
Annual      1.5          2.0           1.5
Cumulative     1.5           3.5          5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
OCS PAD F-l R.v MDC, 2000






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
There has recently been an intensive dialogue with the Algerian authorities at both the technical and
political level regarding World Bank support to the country's privatization program, and this project
responds to an urgent request by the Government for assistance. It addresses a key issue identified in a
recent Algeria Private Sector Development Strategy Note prepared by Bank staff in close collaboration
with an Algerian counterpart team, and should be considered as a first element of a broader effort to
support private sector development in Algeria (see Box 1, Section B below).
Specifically, the development objective of the proposed project is to create the basis for accelerated
implementation of a credible privatization program under a new institutional set-up. To this end, the project
provides capacity-building support to the Ministry of Participation and Coordination of Reforms (MPCR),
under whose authority the privatization process will be streamlined and centralized. Transaction assistance
will also be provided to the institution in charge of executing transactions. Currently, this function belongs
to the Conseil National de Privatisation. The assistance provided under the project should help elaborate
the country's privatization strategy and complete a set of pilot transactions following a competitive and
transparent process, as spelled out in the project implementation plan. It will thus provide an important
learning experience and demonstration effect for future scaling-up of the privatization program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project Development Objective             Key Performance Indicators
Create the basis for an accelerated       Pilot transactions completed in transparent maner, and
implemaentation of a credible privatization  creation of an institutional set-up that delineates responsibilities
program                                   between MPCR, the Privatization Agency (PA), and public
I enterprise holdings.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15316-AL          Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/05/96
The current CAS for Algeria is more than three years old. A new CAS - which would be effective during
the life time of this project - is being prepared. The project would support one of the current CAS goals:
the resumption of private sector-led economic growth, through private sector development, including
privatization. This PAD assumes that the new CAS will restate this goal.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Privatization remains a key challenge for private sector development in Algeria. Algeria had sought to
introduce privatization as early as 1994, and has had considerable success in spinning off small units to
workers. However, the main emphasis of past efforts has been on public enterprise reform. As a result,
after a decade of restructuring public enterprises, at an estimated cumulative -cost of some DA840 billion
(US$21 billion equivalent) and at a loss of some 450,000 jobs, Algeria's privatization program has not yet
resulted in a single complete divestiture of shares of corporatized public enterprises to outside private
interests. Today, the public sector still accounts for 46 percent of value-added in the economy, and public
monopolies dominate all of the hydrocarbons sector and most infrastructure services. The new Govemment,
established in December 1999, is aware of the shortcomings of the past approach, and has expressed in its
-2-



Government Program its commitment to accelerate privatization in a transparent manner under a new
institutional set-up geared towards improving transparency and efficiency of the privatization process.
Box 1: Potential Bank Group Operations in Support of PSD
While privatization is a key element in Algeria's strategy for PSD, there are clearly other challenges confronting Algeria's private
enterprises. The World Bank's Algeria Private Sector Strategy Note, supported by a private enterprise survey, has identified the
following additional constraints to private sector development: (i) continued uncertainty about policy stability and fear of inflation,
associated with the impact of the drastic exchange rate adjustment which caught many enterprises off-guard; (ii) a high burden of
taxation associated with a system of tax regulations that is complex and difficult to master; (iii) limited access to and high cost of
credit for private enterprises; (iv) demand constraints which are often associated with restricted access to public procurement and
steep competition from the informal sector; (v) inefficiencies in the supply and distribution networks for raw materials, parts, and
capital goods; (vi) inadequate basic infrastructure services and access to land; and (vii) "red-tape" and the lack of a modem judicial
system  adapted to the needs of a market economy.  In addition, private enterprise performance is hampered by limited
entrepreneurial know-how, constrained access to up-to-date technolbgy, and obsolete product quality standards.
Many of these issues are highlighted in the Government's 2000 Economic Program, and the World Bank and other donors, in
particular the European Union, are ready to assist the country in addressing them. To this end, the following IBRD operations in the
area of private sector development are under consideration:
*Algeria Privatization Technical Assistance Project. (Stage: Pre-identification). Pending a successful learning experience under
the proposed Privatization LIL, and timing of an envisioned Euro 38 million European Union assistance program for privatization,
the World Bank would be prepared to rapidly launch a follow-up project with the objective to scale up the implementation of the
privatization program.
.Algeria Finance and Private Sector Development Loan. (Stage: Pre-identification). The objective of this proposed policy-based
lending operation is to address key policy constraints to financial and private sector development. In the area of private sector
development, this would involve policy reforms in the areas of (i) privatization and (ii) business environment.
*Algeria Private Enterprise Development Project. (Stage: Pre-appraisal). The objective of this proposed investment operation is to
provide support to private enterprises, in particular to small and medium enterprises, to address key constraints in financial and
managerial capacity. The proposed project components are expected to comprise: (i) access to finance through development of
leasing facilities and venture capital; (ii) strengthening of the market for business development services; and (iii) increasing the
supply of business land and premises. This operation would be coordinated with proposed IFC investments in a leasing company and
a regional venture capital fund.
* Algeria Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project. (Stage: Negotiated). The objective of this proposed project is to
provide the legal and institutional foundation for initiating the liberalization of the postal and telecommunications sectors.
Specifically, the project will assist the Government in: (i) preparing a telecommunications and postal sector framework law and
associated regulations, separating policy, regulatory and operational functions of the Ministry of Telecommunications; (ii) awarding a
second GSM license; and (iii) preparing for the privatization of the incumbent telecommunications operator.
*Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Project. (Stage: Appraisal). The objective of this project is to support the Government
in the restructuring and opening of the energy and mining sectors. To this end, the project will provide assistance: (i) in the mining
and hydrocarbons sectors, to prepare the legal foundations to promote private sector participation and competition; (ii) in the gas
sector, to formulate a sirategy to enhance the development of the sector; and (iii) in the electricity sector, to restructure the sector and
set up an autonomous regulatory agency.
In addition, a seminar on infrastructure concessions is currently being organiied, a project to reform the payments system in the
ban king sector is under preparation, and a complementary project to support micro-enterprises and strengthen the social safety net
has been identified.
Current Status of Privatization
A first step towards paving the way for privatization was made in the Loi de Finance Complementaire in
May 1994. Its articles 24/25 authorized the so-called "partial";privatization of public enterprises. The
terms and conditions for partial privatization specified that (i) up to 49 percent of the equity of an
enterprise could be acquired by private persons either, through the Stock Exchange or negotiated
agreements; (ii) assets and activities, including entire production units of a public enterprise, could be sold
-3 -



or divested to private interests; and (iii) the management of an enterprise could be transferred 'to a private
entity. These modalities also allowed the creation of private-public joint ventures;
Subsequent legislation for privatization issued in August 1995, Ordonnance 95-22, allowed for
case-by-case, so-called "total" privatization of up to 100 percent of equity and assets of public enterprises
in selected economic sectors (building and construction, hotels and tourism, commerce and distribution,
textiles and agribusiness, various processing industries, roads, port and airport services, and "local" small
and medium-sized enterprises). It also provided for the establishment of a Conseil de Privatisation, in
charge of executing total privatization, according to cumbersome administrative procedures (only some of
which were removed through Ordonnance 97-12 in March 1997) under close control of the Government.
This legislation was complemented in September 1995 by the Ordonnance' 95-25. relativ.e a la gestion de
capitaux marchands de l 'Etat, which initially created eleven (today twelve) sectoral and five regional
public holding companies, entrusting them with the management and administration of all the public
enterprises in their respective portfolios. These holding companies in turn were placed under the control of
the Conseil National des Participations de I 'Etat (CNPE), composed of seventeen Ministers and presided
by the Prime Minister and assisted by a technical secretariat.
Under this legislation, public enterprises and public holding companies, as joint stock companies, have the
right to dispose of their assets as per the commercial code, including divesting them following a simple
procedure under the stipulations for partial privatization. Public enterprises can thus sell their assets
(including complete operating units) to private buyers or contribute them to new joint ventures with private
partners. Public holding companies can sell full units or large equity stakes of public enterprises in their
portfolio, following CNPE's decisions.
The holding companies have certainly played a role in introducing some accountability in enterprises,
where managers had previously acted without much oversight by the State, and in preparing the ground for
the eventual privatization of enterprises in their portfolios. These enterprises had to introduce accounting
systems and submit more reliable financial statements, regularize ownership titles on their property,
implement financial restructuring (with massive debt write-offs by the State) and reduce overstaffing. The
holding companies also have not, shied away from downsizing large conglomerates and liquidating
distressed enterprises. Their massive liquidation effort resulted in the closing of 935 out of a total of 1324
local public enterprises, and of 76 out of a total of 411 national public enterprises. The costs of industrial
and financial restructuring has amounted to about Dinar 800 billion. In the context of this restructuring,
some 320,000 employees' were laid off between 1996-98 alone. At the same time, the regional holding
companies facilitated the creation 'of some 1,050 new private enterprises through spin-off or sale of assets
to employees and managers,.resulting in an estimated 25,000 jobs. Under the partial privatization regime,
the holding companies also arranged for three public offerings at the newly created Algiers Stock
Exchange, involving 20 percent of shares each for a pharmaceutical enterprise, a food-processing firm and
a large hotel in Algiers, as well as for eight joint ventures, six of which originated with the holding
companies for chemistry and pharmacy, and mining.
The Conseil de Privatisation was asked to prepare the total privatization of 88 entreprises (383
subsidiaries) through international competitive bidding. A first batch of 35 subsidiaries was offered for
sale in Fall 1998, followed by a second batch of 26 subsidiaries in February 1999. However, due to the
political transition, the previous Government did not carry the process forward, even though the 36 tenders
submitted (half of them from international investors) met the technical qualifications and exceeded the
stipulated minimum price. Some encouraging -results, however, have been achieyed, mainly through the
transfer of significant stakes in a few large enterprises to international investors (through partial
privatization). Acceleration of the privatization process is now essential.
- 4-



Problems and Issues
The Government is well aware of the shortcomings of the existing privatization arrangements and of the
limitations of the current privatization program. These include: (i) lack of a well defined privatization
strategy, with clear time-bound objectives underpinned by a detailed implementation plan and supported by
a broad-based information campaign; (ii) lack of sufficient financial and human resources devoted to the
privatization process in line with the ambitious scope of the program; and (iii) legal and institutional
arrangements in need of clarification and improvements. An important obstacle in the recent past, limited
investor interest, may gradually disappear as perceptions of investors from abroad (strategic partners as
well as expatriate Algerians) of the country's security situation and its investment climate improve and as
more attractive enterprises (with a better financial situation, reporting, and profitability) can be offered for
privatization than in the past.
Government strategy
Algeria's new leadership, both President and Government, has expressed its commitment to accelerate
privatization and address its most pressing constraints, and. has emphasized the urgent need for Algeria to
attract foreign investment. A new ministry, the Ministry of Participation and Coordination of Reforms
(MPCR), has been created, and has received a mandate encompassing privatization, investment promotion,
and coordination of economic reforms. This Ministry will, among other tasks, articulate the privatization
strategy, elaborate and control the privatization program, and supervise privatization transactions. For the
time being, the Conseil de Privatisation will act as a Privatization Agency (PA) in charge of executing
transactions. To this end, it will be provided with adequate resources (partially provided under this project)
to build up its capacity.
A strong emphasis will be placed on privatization transactions with strategic partners and foreign investors,
with extensive use of investment banks, auditing firms, consultants and legal advisers. A growing number
of foreign firms are expressing interest in investing in Algerian public enterprises in a number of sectors,
and public holding companies are currently pursuing discussions with diverse foreign partners. The
authorities thus realize how urgent it is to acquire high-level professional expertise and to build the capacity
to handle complex privatization transactions with foreign investors in a transparent manner.
The existing public holding companies will be asked to report to the MPCR. Their role and responsibility
with respect to the upcoming privatization of the enterprises in their portfolios will be further clarified. The
overall responsibility for the privatization process rests with MPCR. Thus, a strong capacity will also
need to be built in this Ministry. The immediate objective for the next 24 months will be to launch and
complete about 30 privatization transactions - targeted mainly at strategic investors who will bring
know-how, improved management techniques and corporate governance, and financing. The major concern
is not to generate immediate cash proceeds from privatization, but to develop and improve the performance
of the enterprise sector.
Further, the Government is aware that the legislative framework for privatization will need to be revamped
- unifying in particular the partial privatization and total privatization tracks.  It is also expected that
sectoral restrictions to privatization will be lifted, and that privatization will be expanded to most of the
economy, including the mining and hydrocarbons sector. For most infrastructure services, private sector
participation will be invited in the context of regulatory reforms. A first major step in that direction is
currently being taken in the telecommunications sector. With World Bank assistance, the Government is
preparing a new telecommunications framework law to provide the basis for liberalization and
-5 -



privatization. In this process, the Govenment is anticipating the award of a GSM license under competitive
bidding procedures to a private operator within the coming 12 months.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The Government intends to build the momentum for privatization without further delay. In particular, it
would like to build the core capacity to rapidly pursue, in a transparent and competitive manner, the
privatization transactions for which preparation has already started, set up the institutional framework for a
future scaling up of the privatization program, and improve concurrently the institutional and legislative
framework in view of the lessons being learned while implementing the first privatization transactions.
In this context, among the constraints to privatization mentioned above, the proposed project will help the
Government to, first, address the issue of insufficient financial and human resources dedicated to
privatization, and second, help clarify the institutional and regulatory framework for privatization. It will
strengthen the MPCR and the Conseil de Privatisation and help them assess the efficiency of the current
process. In the course of the project, MPCR will articulate its detailed privatization strategy, supported by
policy advisors hired under the Project, and the Conseil de Privatization will launch privatization
transactions with the help of a transaction adviser and investment banks hired under the project. At the
same time, improved transaction procedures will be recommended, an information campaign developed,
and a privatization road map proposed with streamlined institutional arrangements. The overarching
concern will be to achieve maximum transparency - essential to keep the privatization process credible
vis-A-vis both the Algerian population and foreign investors - without unduly overburdening the procedures
and delaying the process.
However, implementation of a scaled-up privatization program will need to be deferred to a follow-up
privatization assistance project. Currently, the European Union is in the final stages of concluding a
framework agreement with the Government, which would allow the launch of a EUR 38 million
privatization assistance project within the coming 18 - 24 months. Alternatively, the World Bank could
consider a follow-up technical assistance project, which could be prepared rapidly and launched before
closure of this proposed project.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
C] Economic    [I Technical    D Social        D Participation
C Financial    1 Institutional  C Environmental I Other
Existing regulations allow the Conseil de Privatisation to act as a Privatization Agency. However, this
institution would like to benefit from additional resources to be able to better meet the objectives of the new
privatization strategy and deal with investment bankers. Similarly, the newly created MPCR does not have
a critical mass of staff capable of articulating a detailed privatization strategy and action plans, analyzing
and amending existing legislation, or launching the needed communication campaign.
To address these shortcomings, the project will specifically finance privatization and legal advisers to
MCPR and to the Conseil de Privatisation, as well as reputable investment banks, to conduct
approximately 5 pilot privatization transactions. The Government's expectations are high with respect to
learning from the pilots and the advisers on designing a pragmatic privatization roadmap, an improved
institutional set-up, consistent incentives for privatization for all stakeholders, and streamlined procedures.
Learning outcomes would include: a delineation of responsibilities between the various actors involved in
the process; and the establishment of operational privatization procedures, based on experience gained in
-6 -



the course of the project.
The capacity of the staff in MPCR and the Privatization Agency will be built on the job with the assistance
of the advisers. By cooperating with local consultants, the internationally recruited advisers will also help
build the capacity of the nascent local consulting profession to provide services for a privatization program
on a larger scale. Of particular importance will be building capacity to deal efficiently with foreign
investors, to achieve transparency, to convey accurate information about privatization, and to interact with
all Algerian stakeholders. Improving the image of Algeria's privatization efforts - through success stories
built around high visibility transactions with strategic investors, and increased transparency and efficiency
of the process - will in turn help attract more investors, local and foreign, and reduce the resistance of a
number of Algerian stakeholders toward privatization. The lessons learned and the capacity built under the
project will provide the basis for an expanded and accelerated privatization program - supported by a
follow-up project(s) financed by the European Union and/or the World Bank.
C. Project Description Summary
.1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Capacity Building of MPCR           Privatization         1.76       32.0       1.60      32.0
Transaction Support to PA           Privatization         3.33       60.5       3.03      60.6
Project Implementation Unit         Privatization         0.36        6.5       0.32        6.4
Front-end fee                                             0.05        0.9       0.05        1.0
Total Project Costs                      5.50      100.0       5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                       5.50      100.0       5.00      100.0
Component 1: Capacity Building of MPCR
This component aims to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MPCR, by providing financial
resources and expertise, and to streamline privatization procedures. Specifically, the component allows for
hiring of: (i) one visiting high level international policy advisor to the Minister; (ii) legal advisory services
from.a reputable international legal firm; and (iii) two resident technical advisors to MPCR's department in
charge of preparing enterprises for privatization. The component also includes funds for hiring short-term
specialists and/or organizing study tours for MPCR staff.
Component 2: Transaction Support to the Privatization Agency
This component aims to strengthen the transaction capacity of the Conseil de Privatisation. Specifically,
the component allows for hiring of: (i) one resident senior transaction advisor to the Conseil; (ii) investment
banks to assist in the implementation of about five complex transactions; and (iii) advisory services to
design specific outreach and information activities.
7-



Component 3: Project Implementation Unit
This component aims to ensure adequate general and financial management of the project. Specifically, the
component allows for hiring by the new project implementation unit (PIU) in the MPCR of a deputy project
manager with strong procurement skills. The implementation unit will be provided with a financial
management specialist. As an integral part of the contract for the financial management specialist, funds
will be provided for a financial management module compliant with World Bank standards.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation will be ensured by the PIU described above, supported by a dedicated senior staff
of the MPCR, the project manager, who wrill act as a liaison "coordinator". The PIU will be housed in the
MPCR, and will report directly to the Minister.
Financial management. The Financial Management System (FMS) in place in the MPCR is based on
principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector and more
specifically to governmental institutions. MPCR maintains an accounting system on a cash basis, and the
outline of budget components is prepared according to the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. Due to
the recent creation of the MPCR, the management information system is still to be developed in order to
allow an acceptable monitoring of the operations. In order to implement the project according to Bank
requirements and the required efficiency, the MPCR will set up special financial management arrangements
as reflected in an agreed time bound action plan which will be implemented by no later than June 30, 2001.
Financial management arrangements are detailed in Annex 6.
Accounting and fmancial reporting. Upon implementation of the action plan, the Project Manager will
maintain, with the assistance of the financial management specialist, acceptable project accounts. This team
will ensure the issuing of annual project financial statements and quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMR) acceptable to the Bank and their submission to the Bank and to the auditors. Procedures for
accounts and financial reporting, as well as internal control mechanisms specific to the project which aim to
World Bank requirements, will be developed by the financial management specialist.
Audit. MPCR will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry out an annual audit
according to the International Auditing Standards, as issued by the International Federation of Accountants,
the Bank's Guidelines (Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, [FARAAHI), and specific
Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the
annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit report within 6 months
after the end of each government fiscal year.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the PIU. Items procured under the project are almost exclusively
consultant services. One of the first steps of project implementation will be the recruitment of the Deputy
Project Manager for the PIU. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be issued in Development
Business in June 2000.
Disbursements from the Bank loan would initially be made on the traditional system (reimbursements upon
presentation of complete documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), and direct
payments). The Government could opt for the PMR-based disbursement once the financial management
system has been assessed to ensure the system is operating satisfactorily. This assessment will take place
by no later than October 30, 2001. To facilitate disbursement, a special account for an amount equivalent
to US$ 500,000 will be established in the Bank of Algeria. Financial services to access the account will be
provided by the "Banque Algerienne de Developpement" (BAD). Disbursements will be based on SOEs
prepared by the PIU and processed by BAD. Direct payment procedures can be used for expenditures
- 8 -



exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent. Procurement and disbursement arrangements are summarized in Annex
6.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Performance Monitoring.  The PIU will issue quarterly project management reports (PMR), with
quarterly project progress notes, including an assessment of progress made toward the objectives of the
project.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Not applicable
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Not applicable
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Participation and Coordination of Economic Reforms
4.2 Project management:
The PIU is housed within MPCR. Financial management arrangements are set out in the agreed time-bound
action plan attached to the PIP.
4.3 Procurement issues:
(see section C.2 above)
4.4 Financial management issues:
(see section C.2 above)
9-



5. Environmental:                    Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Core environmental legislation is in place in Algeria.  The public enterprises selected for the pilot
transactions supported by this project will be chosen among the group of enterprises with no or minimal
environmental liabilities. The environmental capacity of the MPCR and the PA will be strengthened under
follow-up privatization assistance from the European Union and/or the World Bank. Prior to a bid launch,
potential liabilities will be identified through a due diligence process to fully alert prospective buyers of
such liabilities before they submit tenders. Those environmental aspects will be duly taken into
consideration in the price and other terms of the transaction, and specified in the purchase contract. Terms
of reference for the investment banks hired under the project xvill specify that they assist the Conseil de
Privatisation in taking environmental aspects duly into account in the preparation and negotiations of the
transactions. In particular, there will be a clear delineation of responsibilities for assuming past
environmental liabilities and a commitment by the private investor to comply wvith all current environmental
regulations with a view to approaching international standards over the medium term.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As described above, the public enterprise sector has already undergone a massive restructuring effort,
resulting in the closing of 935 out of a total of 1,324 local public enterprises and of 76 out of a total of 411
national public enterprises. In the context of this restructuring, some 320,000 employees were laid off
between 1996-98 alone.
The enterprises to be privatized under this pilot operation have already undergone labor restructuring and
are chosen on the basis of their growth potential, thus minimizing any negative social impact of this project.
In addition, the MPCR is setting up a division in charge of addressing the issues of labor redundancies in
coordination with other ministries and agencies concerned. Specifically, the mandate of this division is to
design and implement plans mitigating the social impact of privatization. These plans will complement an
already comprehensive social safety net in Algeria which has been enacted in parallel with the beginning of
the macroeconomic program in 1994, including broad legislation pertaining to retrenchment benefits, early
retirement schemes and social security compensation. In total, public expenditures for the social sector
amount to nine percent of GDP, far above the average for comparable countries.
-10-



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project was jointly developed with the Minister and staff of MPCR, as well as with the Conseil de
Privatisation.
Discussions held %vithin the "tripartite" (Government, unions, employers), and between unions and
employers' association and the industries, are intended to improve the social climate and create an
environment favorable to the privatization process. In addition, the information campaign launched to
explain the process to the general public will also help build a broad consensus on privatization.
Discussions were also held with the management of most of the sector holding companies of selected public
enterprises expected to be the subject of the reforms implemented under the project. There is a clear
understanding of the advantages of having multiple instruments but only one track for privatization
transactions.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As part of the project, funds are being provided for communications services which will contribute to the
Government's ongoing efforts to reach out to civil society at large. Also, as described above, there has been
an ongoing dialogue with concerned trade unions.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Please see Section 6.1
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The division of MPCR in charge of preparing social plans (see section 6.1) wrill also monitor and report on
the social impact of privatization transactions.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do anv of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                      Applicabili.y
E Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              O Yes Z No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    FO Yes 1 No
El Forestr) (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      L Yes    No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        El Yes Z No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    El Yes 1z No
El Indigenous Peoples (0D 4.20)                                     E Yes 1 No
E Involuntary Resettlement (0D 4.30)                                El Yes Z No
E Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 El Yes 1 No
E Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      E Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)           El Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
- 11 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LL PAD.
2. Possible Controversial Aspects:
One controversial aspect in any privatization operation is typically related to the concerns of public
enterprise staff regarding significant redundancies following the transfer of ownership to private
investors. Fortunately, many Algerian public enterprises have already undertaken major staff reduction
programs, and the enterprises selected as pilots under the Project are expected to have already undergone
a labor rationalization program. Also, as mentioned above, with respect to possible environmental
concerns, while the MPCR is building up its environmental supervision capacity, the pilot transactions
will be targeted at enterprises with no or limited expected environmental liabilities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower has adopted and issued all appropriate regulations detailing missions and attributions
of MPCR, including those necessary for the project execution;
*   The Borrower has appointed in BAD a financial management specialist in charge of payment
procedures for contracts financed under the project;
*   The Borrower has appointed in the PIJ an accountant whose TORs and qualifications are acceptable
to the Bank;
*   The Borrower has prepared and adopted a financial management manual for the project acceptable to
the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The following additional events could trigger the application of Section 6.02(p) of the General
Conditions:
*   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action with a view to,
or resulting in, the suspension of the Borrower's privatization process;
*   A legislation of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the project.
- 12 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
L I . a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of projectimplementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
12 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A general procurement notice and the tenns of reference for the key advisors have already been prepared
and agreed upon. Further procurement will be the responsibility of the Project Manager (already
appointed), assisted by his deputy.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Fl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Axel R. Peuker                    Wafik Grais                       Christian Delvoie
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-13-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Redefined role of the public  Increased share of private  Country statistics      Reorientation of public sector
sector                     enterprises in GDP                                     and release of public funds for
social services will help
alleviate poverty
Resumption of private      Increased private sector    Country statistics         Increased private sector
sector-led growth          investment                                             growth will contribute to
sustainable employment
creation and poverty
alleviation
Opening of Algeria to global  Increased foreign direct  Country statistics
economy                    investment as share of GDP
Follow-on Development
Objective
Scaled-up privatization
program
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Create the basis for an    Pilot transactions completed   Privatization statistics  Continued political stability
accelerated implementation of in transparent manner, and
a credible privatization   creation of an institutional
program                    set-up that clearly delineates
responsibilities between
MPCR, PA, and public
enterprise holding companies
Assessment of privatization   Complementary reforms in
program as reflected in    support of private sector
relevant local and         development
international publications
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. MPCR                                                                           For I and 2
(a) Increased capacity to refine Improved medium-term  Supervision Report, including Govermnent commitment to
medium-term privatization    privatization strategy    annexed strategy and       privatization program
strategy and design detailed   document and detailed  short-term program
short-term privatization   short-term privatization                               Improved perception of
program                    program                                                stakeholders and population of
privatization
-14 -



(b) Experience gained for    Detailed medium-term    Supervision Report, including Change of risk perception of
articulating medium-term  privatization program      annexed medium-term        domestic and foreign private
privatization program                                privatization program      investors
2. Conseil de Privatisation
(a) Increased capacity of  Minimum of 5 sets of      Supervision Report, including Mobilization of additional
Conseil de Privatisation to   transactions launched in line  fact sheets on ongoing  resources for implementation
implement initial complex    with international best  transactions              of privatization program
privatization transactions  practice
Demonstration effect of
transactions supported by
Project
(b) Experience gained for    Improved procedures,    Supervision Report, including
implementation of future large organization and skills of PA  fact sheets on PA organization
scale privatization program   reflected, inter alia, in  and transaction pipeline
reduced time spent in
preparing and completing
transactions and increased
number of transactions
handled concurrently
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. MPCR Capacity Building  US$1.61 million           For I - 3                  For] - 3
PMRs                       Strong local counterpart team
to absorb technial assistance
and draw lessons for future
work
2. Transaction Assistance to  US$3.03 million        Supervision Reports
the PA
3. Project Implementation    US$0.32 million                                    Cooperation of public
Unit                                                                            enterprise groups
-15 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.76 million
Capacity Building of MPCR
1. One high-level policy advisor to Minister. US$200,000 (foreign cost - base cost estimate without
contingencies) for short-term missions over a two-year period.
2. Two resident technical advisors to MPCR's Directioni generale des prises de participations et de la
privatisation: US$800,000 (foreign cost - base cost) for two-year assignments of two persons.
3. Legal advisor to MPCR: US$400,000 (foreign cost - base cost) for short-term missions over a
two-year period.
4. Short-term consultants and study tours for MPCR staff: US$60,000 (base cost estimate).
Project Component 2 - US$3.36 million
Transaction Support to the PA
i. One resident senior transaction advisor: US$200,000 (foreign cost - base cost estimate) for one-year
assigrunent.
2. Investment Banks to assist the PA in implementing about 5 complex transactions: US$2.5 million
(foreign cost - base cost estimate) in fixed fees.
3. Advisory services to design specific information actions: US$50,000 (base cost estimate).
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.33 million
Project Implementation Unit
I. One project manager with procurement skills, deputy to the project manager/coordinator: US$200,000
(base cost estimate) for two-year assignrment.
2. One financial management specialisvaccountant: US$40,000 (base cost estimate) for two-year
assignment.
- 16 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
T   ~ ~ ~~~Loa                Foreign E       ota
.~~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  Y                    " 
Capacity Building of MPCR                                 0.14          1.46         1.60
Transaction Support to PA                                 0.28          2.77         3.05
Project Implementation Unit                               0.03          0.27         0.30
Front-end fee                                             0.00          0.05         0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.45          4.55         5.00
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.05          0.45         0.50
Total Project Costs              0.50          5.00         5.50
Total Financing Required               0.50         5.00          5.50
Project Cost By Cat;gory               U$ d    4S         f milio    U   on
Goods                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    0.50          4.92          5.42
Training and study tours                                    0.00          0.03          0.03
Front-end fee                                               0.00          0.05          0.05
Total Project Costs     0.50           5.00         5.50
Total Financing Required      0.50          5.00          5.50
- 17 -



Annex 4
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Cost Benefit Analysis
Not applicable to Learning and Innovation Loans
- 18-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Years Ending
| Year 1  Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6          Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.5        3.0       2.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.5        3.0        2.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               0.5        3.0        2.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.5        2.7        1.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.1        0.3        0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.5        2.7        1.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Project Financing Plan (2000 - 2003) in US$ millions
-19 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Procurement
Procurement under the Project will be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, revised in January 1999, using standard bid documents and contract forms agreed
with the Bank. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants, revised in January 1999, using standard contract forms agreed with the Bank. Items procured
under the project are almost exclusively consultant services. With the exception of contracts below
US$50,000, the QCBS method will be used. Consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 per
contract may, with the Bank's prior approval, be procured through single source.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the new PIU in MPCR. The person currently proposed as PIU
manager, a high-level civil servant, only has procurement experience under the standard rules of the
Algerian administration, and he will thus need support from the PIU assistant manager, a position to be
financed under the loan. Therefore, the early recruitment of this consultant will be of utmost importance,
and wvill be one of the first steps of project implementation. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be
issued in Development Business in June 2000.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Not applicable
- 20 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           5.09      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      5.09
.(4.63)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.63)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.36       0.00      0.36
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (0.00)    (0.32)
Total   5.09     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.36      0.00      5.45
_  (4.63)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (0.00)    (4.95)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-21-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Thresholt              Procurement             Prior Review- 
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)-
1. Works
2. Goods
3. ServicesFirms                >100                   QCBS                      All
<100                QCBS, other                 none
Individuals                     >50            See Section V of Guidelines       All
<50           See Section V of Guidelines       none
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 22 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
<<- >sExpenditeCategor        Arn&sn in: US$mlion00 t Financing Percetage^zi0
Services                                   4.92                         100%
Other (Study tour)                         0.03                         100%
Front-end Fee                              0.05
Total Project Costs                        5.00
Total                                      5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be based on statement of expenditures prepared by the PIU and processed by the"
Banque Algerienne de Developpement" (BAD). Direct payment procedures can be used for expenditures
exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement, a special account for an amount equivalent to US$ 500,000 will be established
in the Bank of Algeria. Financial services to access the account will be provided by the BAD.
Financial management:
Background
1.    The Financial Management System (FMS) of the Ministry of Participation and Coordination of
Reforms (MPCR) is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
public sector and, more specifically, to governmental institutions.
2.    Budgeting system. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken, the MPCR issues an
annual budget for commitments related to planned expenditures. The annual budget is finalized with the
Ministry of Finance. The budget execution is also subject to authorization for payment on a transaction
level. This specific authorization process aims to ensure that the expense to be paid has been budgeted,
and to issue the official instruction to make the payment.
3.    Disbursements. Payments through the governmental budget are centralized and processed by
the public accountant of the MPCR. Furthermore each payment is submitted to the financial controller
(Contr6leurfinancier).
4.    Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility for budget execution and
monitoring is assigned to the Ministry of Finance through a specialized audit department, Inspection
Generale des Finances (IGF) and the Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) which has a judiciary role of
supervision of public finances. The Audit Court is the authority which issues the final approval (quitus
) for the management and accounts of public funds.
- 23 -



General Assessment and Scope for Improvement
5.    General Assessment. MPCR has been created in December 1999 and is in the process of
setting up a comprehensive management information system for its operational activity. This includes:
appointment of the needed staff, computerization of the accounting system, and implementation of a
reporting system.
6.    Financial Management System for the Project. Since the implementation of MPCR's
management information system will require several months of concerted effort and mobilization of
funds, special arrangements for the financial management of the proposed project have to be taken. The
main actions to be implemented during a period of 12 months, and by no later than June 2001, are the
following:
* Designation of the Project Implementation Team headed by the Project Manager and including a
financial management specialist.
*  Job descriptions and responsibilities issued in writing and included in the Financial Management
Procedures Manual.
*  Finalization of a Financial Management Procedures Manualfor the project acceptable to the
Bank. This manual will define the flows of funds, the intemal control rules, the finance and
disbursement procedures, the relationship between the project implementation team, MPCR and
extemal entities involved in the project implementation, the chart of accounts, and the reporting
procedures and rules.
*  Acquisition of the needed hardware and software for the project team in order to allow the
implementation of adequate communication tools and the computerization of the accounting and
reporting systems.
* Definition of the reporting procedures to be followed by the Project Implementation Unit in order
to issue quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) acceptable to the World Bank.
Financial Management Characteristics
7.    Oryanization of the PIU. The head of this structure has been designated officially as Project
Manager (PM). The PM will be responsible for monitoring and coordination as well as for overall
procurement, finance, budgeting, accounting and reporting functions. The PM will be assisted by a
financial management specialist.
8.    Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are
crucial for ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various
stakeholders, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies cover, inter alia, the
following aspects: (i) expenditures, project expenditures, and their classification; (ii) expenditures
eligible for reimbursement from the World Bank loan; and (iii) project accounting policies.
9.    Project Accounting System. The PM will act on behalf of the MPCR and would be responsible
for the project financial management and accounting duties, supported by the financial management
specialist. He would maintain accounting records for the issuing of the annual Project Financial
Statements (PFSs) and the quarterly PMRs, and would be responsible for the submission of these
documents on a timely basis to the World Bank and to the auditors.
- 24 -



10.    The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project will be maintained on cash basis principles. Project accounts
would be maintained using-the application developed for this purpose, which will be in place
no later than March 2001. The implementation of a database specific to the project will be
used by the project team to reflect all the transaction flows and to issue quarterly PMRs and
the annual PFSs.
(ii)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds and all utilization of project funds.
This would include payments made and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions
(whether involving cash or not) would be taken into account in the reporting system.
Disbursements made by the World Bank and the transaction processed through the Special
Account maintained by BAD would also be included in the project accounting system.
(iii)   Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This
distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the
project capturing all projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project
would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project will be developed. The Chart of
Accounts should conform to the classification of expendiures and sources of funds as
indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document,
COSTAB). The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be captured so as to facilitate
financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure
categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
iv)    A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /Financial Reports and the
Legal records will be defined.
(v)    Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system. These items will be
identified and indicated in the Internal Control Guidelines.
11.    The accounting procedures manual for the project will be issued, and will outline at a
minimum: (a) job responsibilities within the PIU; (b) monthly and annual accounting ledger closing and
reconciliation procedures, including centralization and consolidation of data; (c) accounting policies;
and (d) banking and cash procedures. It is important that this manual be in writing so that it can be
distributed to all project staff.
12.   Information Flow for Accounting Purposes. The inforrnation flow will be as follows:
(i)    The PIU will generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures
on activities directly managed.
(ii)    Expenditures incurred by MPCR would be reviewed by the project auditors following the
International Auditing Standards as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the
World Bank's Guidelines (Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing handbook [FARAH]
and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the World Bank.
(iii)   This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified as
necessary.
- 25 -



13.   Internal Controls. The project financial management system should include the following
internal control mechanisms:
(i)    Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets.
(ii)    Adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which would
govern financial management of and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures
will be included in the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
(iii)   Establishment at the transaction level of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring
acceptable internal control mechanisms such as checking of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical
verification, easy access to supporting documents, etc. These policies and procedures would be
reviewed and updated periodically.
(iv)   Implementation of a comprehensive system which aims at issuing the annual project financial
statements and quarterly PMRs.
Financial Management Reports
14.    Quarterly Proiect Management Reports (PMRs) for the project would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e.,
providing summaries rather than transactional details) and would be used for project monitoring and
implementation. The PMR should include the following three parts:
(i)    Financial statements that include:
*   Summary of sources and uses of funds
*   Uses of funds by project activity
*   Cash withdrawal
* Cash forecast
- Special account statement
(ii)    An (output) monitoring report using contract management information, and
(iii)   A procurement management report that includes:
*   Contract expenditure report - consultants
*   Procurement management report - consultants
Formats of the reports will be part of the Financial Management Manual.
15.   Annual Audited Project Financial Statements (PFSs) would be submitted to the World Bank.
The PFS would include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or balance sheet, indicating
funds received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii)
schedules classifying project expenditures by components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special
Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to the World Bank not later than
6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
- 26 -



Audit Arrangements
16.    The Borrower will appoint an auditor acceptable to the World Bank, to carry out the annual
audit of the project in accordance with International Auditing Standards as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants, the World Bank's Guidelines (Financial, Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook [FARAH]) and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the World
Bank. The auditor will express his professional opinion on the project accounts and statements. The
annual audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year.
- 27 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      3                            3
First Bank mission (identification)             02/29/2000                   02/29/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     04/21/2000                   04/21/2000
Negotiations                                    05/15/2000                   05/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/2000        -
Prepared by:
Ministry of Participation and Coordination of Economic Reforms
Preparation assistance:
Not applicable
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Lajos Bokros                      Policy Advice
Yves Duvivier                     Privatization
Tarek Kharrat (Consultant)        Financial Management
Samia Msadek                      Financial Management
Axel Peuker                       Task Team Leader
Marie Ange Saraka-Yao             Privatization
Liliane Vert                      Project Documentation
- 28 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan dated May 23, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Algeria Private Sector Strategy Note, Main Report, Volume I, Draft, February 2000
* Algeria Private Sector Strategy Note, Volume II, Chapter 3: Restructuring and Privatization of Public
Enterprises, Draft, October 1999
* Note on Financial Management Arrangements for the Privatization Assistance Project in view of World
Bank experience in Algeria, Draft, March 2000
C. Other
* Draft Terms of Reference for: (i) the international strategic advisor to the Minister; (ii) the
international resident advisors to the Department in charge of preparing enterprises for Privatization
and the Ministry; (iii) the international transaction advisor to the Conseil de Privatization; (iv) the
deputy project manager for the PIU; and (v) the financial management specialist
* Transparency guidelines for privatization (Annex to PIP)
* Tentative list of enterprises to be privatized under the project (Annex to PIP)
* Cost Estimates (Annex to PIP)
*   Project Implementation timetable (Annex to PIP)
*Including electronic files
- 29 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements
Project ID     FY    Borrower                        Purpose                                         IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P004964        1992 Algera                       ALG-CADASTRE                                          33.00       0.00        2.27       5.93        B.20       3.39
P004954        1993 Algena                       BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI                                 40.00        0 00        0 00      11.92        9.58       0.00
P042940        1998 Algefia                      DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                                150.00       0.00        0.00     140.00       37.50       0.00
P004974        1994 Algeria                      DZ-WATERSUPPLYANDSEWERAGE                            110.00       0.00        0.00      9542        75.09       2.17
P004907        1995 Algeria                      HIGHWAYS VI                                          130.00       0.00        0.00      82.94       61 81       0.00
P004960        1996 Algeria                     IND POLLUTION CTRL                                     78.00       0.00        0.00      71 09       2563        4.09
P043724        1997 Algeria                      RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                      89.00       0.00        0.00      70 79       6219        3.46
P004978        1996 Algeria                      SOCIAL SAFETY I                                       50 00       0.00        0.00       8.70        6 37       7.04
Total       680.00         0 00         2.27       486.79    286 37      20.15
- 30 -



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                ABCA                            0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    1.88     0.00    0.00
1992                Helios                          4.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                SGA                             0,00     1.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:          4.00     3.00    0.00     0.00     4.00     2.07     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
- 31 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: Privatization Assistance
I'. East   ' Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North   middle-
-  ' -  - -   Algeria  Africa   tncome    Development dlamond*
1998
Population, rnid-Year ?mi/lions)                       29.3        285       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    1,550.    2,050      1,710    .                              .p.ac
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)-                 .    45.4        586     1,557
Avorage annual growth, 1992-98.
Population (1). :                                        1.8       2.2        11
Labor force %                                           4.1        3.0        1.      GNP                               Gross
Most recent eastimatf (latest year available, 1992.98)                                 p                               primary
capita                        enrollment--
Poverty (% of population bslow national poverty ine)     23
Urban PopWlationit% oftotalpopulation)                   Se         58se      58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         7D         67      - 68
Infant mortalitY (Per 1,000 live births)                 30         49        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               10         14 -                         Access to safe water
Access to sefe_water l% ofpjopulation)                              a ..  81  75
lttiteracy (%of population-age 15+)' -                    ..        38        14
Gross primary enrollment (SB of sch9o0-age population)  1 107       96       103         -A gena
Male        '                                         113        103       105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 D 101      89       '100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                                  -
-   '   . ..1978  19J8  1997  1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (iUSS billina)                            26.4     58 S       47.9      47.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 52.1      27.2      23.8      272                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             25.5      14,4      30.6       23.0T
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    37,5      27,0      32.2       27.1.
Gross national savings/GDP                    36.1     32.1       29.8      25.2
Current account balancelGDP  '                -13.4     -3.2.      7.2       .2.0     Domestc                       inet        .
Interest:Pavments/GOP                          2.3       2.9       4.1        4.0     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                59-5      44-3      64.5      64.8a
Total debt sarvicelexports                    23.6      74.8    - 27.2       41.7
Present-value of debtlGDP                       1..        ..     6.3
Present vilue of debt/exports                    .         .     180.9  .                           ndbne
Indebtedness.
1978-88  1988-98     1i99       1998   1998-02
(averaae annuat growth)
GOP                                   3,6      0,9:      1.1       5.1        3.9         -A lgeria
GNP per capita                       .0.4  -  -1.3       0.'  6.     1        2.0            Lower-middle-income group
ExPorts of goods and services       .2.9       1.9      8.3        3.S        5.1     . :r-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997      1998      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(1Y cf GDPJ                                                                           20
Agriculture                                   10.3      13.6      10.3       13.4       . 
Industry                                      49.8     41.5       52.3      52.4      10
Manufacturing                               10.4      13.6        9.3      11.3
Services                                      39.9     44.8       37.4       34.2      0     4           9
, _3f  94   ~~95   95   97   98
Private consumDtion                           48.6     54.2       51.0      62.0    -10
General government consumPtion                13.9     18.7       16.7      11.0             '      GO        --GDP
Imports of goods and services                 40.1      14.5      22.2      23.1
1978-88  1998-98       1997      1998      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    4.3       2.8     -13.5       11.4      0
Industry                                       3.0     -0.5        4.3        8.4 
Manufacturing                                9.1    -10.7        -3.8       9.8      o
Services                                       4.7       2.6       2.6        0.1                                    97 sa
Private consumption                            4.1     -1.4       -2.6        0.3   .10                               s
General government consumption                 5.7       4.0       2.0        2.6
Gross domestic investment                     -1.5      -2.0      -0.4       16.0   '1
Imports of goods and services                 -2.1      -2.3       2.4        5.8            -Exports          0*Imports
Gross national product                         3.5       0.9       2.7        5.8
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-OrouD averaae. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 32 -



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1978    1988        1997     1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         o;
Consumer prices                              17.2      5.9       5.7       5.0    30
Implicit GDP deflator                        10.0    13.3        6.5     -4.2    20
Govemment finance                                                                                                    C
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 -    27.6       33.5     27.8    .10      93   94   95  9g   97
Current budget balance                         ..      5.5      10.2      4.0             -     GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..   -12.4        2.4      -3.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1978    1988        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   7,822    13,820    10,126      so000
Natural gas                                  ..    831       1,991     1,700    14,000
Refined product                              ..   1,792      2,272     1,487    12,000
Manufactures                                  ..    26          4         2      10.050
Total imports (cif)                            .    8,307      8130     8,629
Food                                          ..   1,808     2,166     2,481     400
Fuel and energy                                ~0
Capital goods                                ..   1,967      1,927    2,492         0
Export price index (1987=100)                 70       93        111       78            92  93  94  95  go  97  98
Import price index (1987= 100)                85       94        96        88                  1O Exports     * Imports
Terrnsoftrade(1987=100)                       82       99        116       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978    1988       1997      1998     CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services              6,804    8,347    14,890    10,890      8
Imports of goods and services              9,958    9,767    10,280    10,940       -
Resourcebalance                            -3,153   -1,419     4,610      -50      4-.
Net income                                  -593   -2,010    -2,220    -1,964      2
Net current transfers                        205    1,527      1,060     1,088    -                         98  .7
Current account balance                    -3,541   -1,903     3,450     -926
Financing items (net)                      3,731    1,107       260      -295      -
Changes in net reserves                     -190      796    -3,710      1,221    -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)      1,981    3,189    10,190     8,988
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)             4.0      5.9      57.7      58.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978    1988       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill,)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       15,735   26,027    30,890    30,665                   G. 186
IBRD                                       187      895      1,795    1,676                    G    A 1,e76
IDA                                          0        0         0         0                                 C: 2,011
Total debt service                          1,690    6,541     4,420    5,136         F: 9,024
IBRD                                        20      184       353       33         FD9,05413
IDA                                          0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official creditors                         604     -218       162      -213
Private creditors                        3,604    1,798       -537   -1,328
Foreign direct investment                  136      -48       260       500
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..         ..       ..                            E: 15.025
World Bank program
Commitments                                172       20        89       150      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               53      170       250        56      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                          4      112       234       208      C-IMF                      G - Short-te. n
Netfiows                                    50       58        17      -152
Interest payments                           16       72       120       124
Net transfers                               33      -14       -103     -276
Development Economics                                                                                                6/5/00
- 33 -



Xl                                             !,.-
e g; A >,  3 @ j j~~~~~~~C
_1 D             .Vy                       3    
_  ,     @,-Sf .. ..  . ',    p   _  
EJA                        >0L
~~~~~~~~~~~~v-  '2_ZtzQUX0   3OI 



