                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 29330

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (FSLT-70290)

                                              ON A

                             LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                             FOR A

                                 PRIVATIZATION ASSISTANCE




                                           June 30, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 5, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
                                        DA 1 = US$ 0.013
                                       US$ 1 = DA 75

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAD     Banque Algérienne de Développement
CNPE    Conseil National des Participations de l'Etat
FMS     Financial Management System
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MPPI    Ministry of Participation and of Investment Promotion
PA      Privatization Agency
PCD     Project Concept Document
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMR     Project Management Report
PSD     Private Sector Development
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SOE     State Owned Enterprise

                              Vice President:     Christiaan Poortman
                           Country Director       Theodore Ahlers
                             Sector Director      Emmanuel Forestier
                            Sector Manager         Zoubida Allaoua
                              Task Manager:       Christian Schmidt

                                 REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                              DZ-Privatization Assistance (LIL)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21

                                   Implementation Completion Report
                                           Republic of Algeria
                                           Loan No. 70290-AL

                                                  Preface

This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization Assistance Learning and
Innovation Loan to the Republic of Algeria. The Project was approved on June 26, 2000 and made
effective on February 6, 2001. The Project closed on December 31, 2003.

The ICR was prepared by Mr. Christian Schmidt. The report is based on a final supervision and ICR
mission in December 2003, material in the project files, and information received from Project counterparts
at the Ministry of Participation and Investment Promotion.

Project ID: P070123                                                  Project Name: DZ-Privatization Assistance (LIL)
Team Leader: Christian A. Schmidt                                    TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: DZ-Privatization Assistance (LIL)                        L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70290
   Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/03/2000                                     Effective: 02/06/2001                02/06/2001
     Appraisal: 04/21/2000                                         MTR:                             07/10/2002
      Approval: 06/26/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA/MINISTRY OF PARTICIPATION &
                                           COORDINATION OF ECONOMIC REFORMS (MPCR) ; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           ALGERIA/renamed MINISTRY OF PARTICIPATION AND INVESTMENT
                                           PROMOTION (MPPI)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Zoubida Allaoua                                Wafik Grais
Team Leader at ICR:             Christian Schmidt                              Axel Peuker
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Schmidt


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Following an intensive dialogue with the Algerian authorities at both the technical and political level
following President Bouteflika's election in 1999, the development objective of the proposed project was to
create the basis for an accelerated implementation of a credible privatization program to support Algeria's
transition to a market economy. One of the key recommendations of the private sector development
strategy that was issued at the time was the reduction of the state in the management and ownership of state
enterprises. The project was to provide capacity-building support to the Ministry of Participation and
Coordination of Reforms (MPCR), under whose authority the privatization process was to take place.
Transaction assistance was also to be provided to the institution in charge of executing transactions. At
appraisal, this function of transaction execution belonged to the "Conseil National de Privatisation". The
assistance to be provided under the project was to help implement the country's privatization strategy and
complete a set of pilot transactions following a competitive and transparent process, as was spelled out in
the project implementation plan.        It was thus to provide an important learning experience and
demonstration effect for future scaling-up of the privatization program. It was also meant to help Algeria
rebuild investor confidence.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had 3 components corresponding to the Project's development objective.

1. Capacity Building of MPCR

This component aimed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MPCR, by providing financial
resources and expertise, and aimed to streamline privatization procedures. Specifically, the component
allowed for hiring of: (i) one visiting high level international policy advisor to the minister; (ii) legal
advisory services from a reputable international legal firm; and (iii) two resident technical advisors to
MPCR's department in charge of preparing enterprises for privatization. The component also included
funds for hiring short-term specialists and/or organizing study tours for MPCR staff. Furthermore, the
advisors were to provide training to ministry staff.

2. Transaction support to Privatization Agency

This component aimed to strengthen the transaction capacity of the privatization agency -- the "Conseil
National de Privatisation" -- which was however abolished and merged into the ministry soon after project
effectiveness. The component allowed for hiring of (i) one resident senior transaction advisor to the
Conseil, (ii) investment banks to assist in the implementation of about five complex transactions (the
successful launch of which served as an outcome indicator), and (iii) advisory services to design specific
outreach and information activities. As a consequence of the merger, the above 3 activities transferred to
the ministry at an early implementation stage of the project.

3. Project Implementation Unit

This component aimed at ensuring adequate general and financial management of the project. Specifically,
the component allowed for hiring, by the then newly created project management unit (PIU) in the MPCR,
a deputy project manager with strong procurement skills. The PIU was also to be provided with a financial



                                                     - 2 -

management specialist. Finally, funds were to be provided for a financial management module compliant
with World Bank standards as an integral part of the contract for the financial management specialist.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This ICR rates the Project's quality at entry as satisfactory.
While the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) did not assess the Project's quality at entry, it rated it
satisfactory following a Quality of Supervision Assessment that was conducted in November 2002. At the
time, the project fitted well with stated commitments in the sector and with Government's overarching
reform goals, which included reducing the role of the public sector in commercial activities and ensuring a
competitive, level playing field for the private sector. Privatization was outlined in the CAS as part of
Government's strategy to reduce the size of the public sector in the economy as Algeria was moving from a
centrally planned to a market based economic system. Furthermore, the readiness of the PIU was given, as
the appropriate staff was hired, and the project was ready for implementation.

The project's design fitted particularly well with Government's 2000 policy announcements to accelerate
privatization as part of its governance reform program that was to improve transparency and efficiency of
the privatization process itself as a means to improve governance and economic efficiency. Possibly, the
potential opposition from the trade unions and thus the assessment of the resulting risk could have been
spelled out slightly stronger.

Algeria had thought to introduce privatization as early as 1994, and it had considerable success in spinning
off small units to workers. Despite these early successes, the Government did not push privatization. The
main emphasis of efforts had been rather on public enterprise reform, i.e. on corporatization, not on
privatization. In the late nineties, further changes were made with more concrete steps towards paving the
way for privatization, namely through the "Loi de Finance" in May 1994, which authorized the so-called
"partial" privatization of public enterprises, after years of inaction on public enterprise reform. The terms
and conditions for partial privatization specified that up to 49 percent of the equity of a public enterprise
could be acquired by private persons either through the Stock Exchange or negotiated agreements.
Subsequent legislation for privatization allowed for case-by-case, so-called "total" privatization of up to
100 percent of equity and assets in selected sectors. But despite an estimated public enterprise restructuring
cost of US$ 21 billion equivalent and a loss of 450,000 jobs, Algeria's privatization program had not
resulted in a single complete divestiture of shares of corporatized public enterprises to outside private
interests prior to the turn of the century.

In addition to the above, the "Conseil National de privatization", in charge of executing total privatization
was established. This Conseil had been asked to prepare the total privatization of 88 enterprises through
international competitive bidding. However, due to a political transition in 1998/1999, the incoming
presidency preferred to first review the process before carrying it forward.

The new leadership that followed had however expressed its commitment to accelerate privatization. A new
ministry, the Ministry of Privatization and Coordination of Reforms (MPCR), was created, and had
received a mandate encompassing privatization, investment promotion, and coordination of economic
reform. The ministry was to articulate the privatization strategy, elaborate and manage the privatization
program and supervise privatization transactions, while the "Conseil National de Privatisation" was to act
as a privatization agency (PA) in charge of executing transactions.




                                                      - 3 -

Hence the above mentioned "fit" of the project, as a strong emphasis was to be put on privatization
transactions with strategic foreign partners and investors, which required the extensive use of investment
banks, auditing firms, consultants and legal advisers. As such, the three project categories adequately
reflected the design needs of the project.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a Quality of Supervision Assessment (November 19,
2002), as mentioned above, in which it stated that the project design was sound but that the project was not
yet ready for implementation at approval without further elaboration thereof. Supervision was rated
satisfactory.

The design of the project per se was adequate. There was a small window of opportunity for privatization
in 2000. A small operation such as a LIL was the right response to such an opportunity and offered the
flexibility to adequately respond to the client effectively. However, the project risk was probably not
sufficiently articulated and an exit strategy might have been mentioned and been built in.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This ICR rates the achievement of Project objectives as highly unsatisfactory.

This rating is based on the fact that not a single privatization transaction occurred under the project, and
that no lasting capacity building actually took place. This unimpressive achievement is tempered somewhat
by the knowledge gained, in principle, in the Project Implementation Unit within the privatization ministry
on how to select, work with, and monitor investment banks and privatization advisors in general. While
initially, there was adequate preparation of the general legal framework and of some institutional and
technical aspects for potential privatization transactions, including the hiring of specialized outside
advisors, there occurred a 180 degree reversal of support at the most crucial stage of the project, when
actual sales transactions were beginning to happen in the form of bid prices being received. In the case
which reached the most advanced stage, the bids were rejected by Government as being too low. In two
other cases, the already signed investment bank assistance contracts to support specific transactions of
other sets companies slated for privatization under the project were voided by the ministry. For the
remainder of the companies to be privatized, the advisory seeking process of signing up investment banks
was halted during the bid proposal preparation phase, after the first bid for the cement company
privatization was considered by the government to have been too low .

Altogether, the expected output of increased capacity to implement initial complex privatization
transactions, based on which experience was to be gained for a future large scale privatization program
was not achieved.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Capacity Building of the ministry MPCR (US$ 1,760,000): The capacity building component is rated
unsatisfactory.

It was to provide two resident advisors to the Ministry's "direction générale des prises de participation et
de la privatization" for two years each. In addition, a legal advisor was foreseen for short-term missions,
as needed, over a two year period. The advisory of both of these sub-components was carried out as per the
original plan. A third sub-component, namely a high level advisor to the minister was substituted by several
local advisors with Bank approval. The fourth and final sub-component, namely hiring, as needed, of
additional, highly specialized short-term consultants and of carrying out study tours for ministry staff was



                                                      - 4 -

only partially implemented. Short-term consultants were not hired at all, even though an IFC proposal for
short-term advisory services for privatization was discussed with the authorities, but never approved by the
independent national procurement commission (commission de marché). Only one study tour was carried
out, and the program was later halted.

Initially, two separate bodies were to receive capacity building assistance. Those were (i) the MPCR itself
through the above mentioned sub-components with the aim to refine the medium-term privatization strategy
and to design a short-term privatization program and (ii) the formerly separate privatization council (
"Conseil National de Privatisation") to implement an initial set of five complex privatization transactions.
The council was also to receive capacity building assistance through a senior transaction advisor. This
position however moved to the ministry when the council was merged into the ministry soon after the
advisor had taken up his position. Through this "move", the overall de facto capacity building volume at
the ministry expanded, while the "Conseil National de Privatisation" ceased to exist. Considering that the
above mentioned capacity was to be built based on, and in conjunction with, actual transactions, it is
unfortunate that the outcome and output indicators were not achieved, since no transactions took place.

Considering the aim of this component, namely to refine the medium-term privatization strategy and to
design a short-term privatization program, it did not result in either a detailed short term privatization
program nor in a fact sheet on a transaction pipeline nor improved procedures, organization and skills. The
latter was to be reflected, inter alia, in reduced time spent in preparing and completing transactions, and in
increasing the number of transactions handled concurrently as per the originally stated project objectives.

All of the above listed positions were filled by separate consultant companies providing the various experts
(except for the local advisors to the ministry, who were directly contracted on an individual base between
the minister and consultants, which was approved by the Bank although it was not foreseen at appraisal).
However, while the advisors provided plenty of technical guidelines and reports, a true application and
internalization of these methods did not occur, as mentioned above, since only through the supposed actual
transaction experience were these otherwise theoretical practices to become "implementation proof".
Furthermore, the experts were not adequately placed to bring their knowledge to full fruition since initially,
they were not integrated into the departments which were assigned the transactions, and later, when they
were integrated, the assistance on actual privatization cases did not become a necessity for lack thereof.

The elaboration of a medium term strategy did not materialize as the leadership of the ministry changed
four times throughout the life of the project. The launch of five sets of transactions proved equally difficult
as the list kept changing during project implementation. While they were all launched in the course of the
project, tangible results did not occur.

Transaction Support to the Privatization agency (US$ 3,330,000): This key component of the project is
rated highly unsatisfactory.

The transaction support component was not managed by the "Conseil National de Privatization", the de
facto privatization agency (an executing arm of the privatization council), as originally foreseen, but by the
MPCR ministry itself, given the above mentioned merger/dissolution. In addition to the above mentioned
senior advisory position, which "moved" along with the overall transfer of the component to the ministry,
two more sub-components made up for this central part of the project (50 percent of total estimated project
funds): (i) the coverage of the fixed fees for investment banks to assist with 5 complex sets of transactions
and, (ii) a communication/information campaign. In view of the zero output in terms of achieved
transactions, this component is rated as highly unsatisfactory by the ICR. Given that it was the center piece
of the learning and innovation loan, it weighs heavily on the overall effectiveness and achievements of the


                                                      - 5 -

project and hence contributes substantially to, and is the root cause of the overall highly unsatisfactory
rating. The communication campaign however did not take place. Even though grant EU funds were
allocated for that purpose, based on which the ministry justified that Bank financing was no longer needed
for this purpose, the ministry did not implement it in the end.

The list of five complex sets of transactions was a moving target. At the outset of the project, two of the
five transaction sets were defined, namely one as a group of cement companies, the so-called "lot
cimentier" (3 out of a total of twelve existing State-owned enterprises (SoEs) in the country's cement
industry), and another one as the "lot chimique", consisting of three chemical/pharmaceutical firms (paints,
fertilizer and glass maker). Additional sets were proposed, but frequently dropped and replaced. Whenever
ministers changed, resistance was met by the companies to be privatized, or there were differences of views
regarding the shares to be sold to the private sector, the list was modified. For example, one of the public
sector banks, a flagship for the privatization program in the financial sector, was dropped following the
Bank's objections to the change of the initial terms of reference approved by both the Government and the
Bank that envisaged a privatization of more than the 49 percent retained following a meeting of the CPE
(Conseil des Participations de l'Etat).

In the end, five complex sets of transactions were agreed upon to be undertaken under the project. They
were the above mentioned cement and chemical sets, plus a set consisting of three hotels, a large,
loss-making bus & truck manufacturer (SNVI - société nationale des vehicules industriels) and a
refrigerator/air conditioning manufacturer (ENIEM - entreprise nationale d' industrie électrique et
mécanique). For the first four sets, advisory assignments for investment banks had been prepared and
completed, and for the fifth, the request for proposals was about to be launched. Only for one set (for the
sale of three cement plants) had the entire cycle been completed from start to finish, including the
successful search for final buyers, albeit without a positive sale outcome, as Government rejected the final
bid price (see below). For three other transaction sets, advisory bids for investment banks had been
awarded and contracts signed, only to be cancelled later on, once Government halted the program (see
section 5). For one of these three, namely the set of chemical companies, the preparatory work of the
investment bank was far advanced, whereas the other two (hotels and the truck/bus manufacturer) contracts
had been signed but were not yet effective. The final candidate (ENIEM) never got to the stage where bids
were requested.

The investment banks' advisory in the above mentioned case of the cement privatization was experiencing
difficulties. A particular issue arose when the ministry was insisting on setting certain preconditions for the
sale ­ stipulated in the bidding documents (cahier de charge) which the advisor did not believe were
merited as they were too restrictive and hence, in their view reduced the investors' expected willingness to
pay. The investment bank's concern was validated by the low bid price which was subsequently rejected by
government.

Project Implementation Unit (US$ 360,000): The project management unit, in isolation, is rated
satisfactory.

This component was to ensure adequate general and financial management of the project. The unit that
received support through this component did provide adequate management throughout project duration.
Hence, the satisfactory rating, even though this rating and the work of the unit could unfortunately not
prevent the overall highly unsatisfactory outcome of the project.

A project manager with procurement skills was to be hired as a deputy to the management coordinator, as
was an accountant, each with a two year assignment. While the locally hired staff for the latter position


                                                     - 6 -

served out the full term, and did so in a very satisfactory manner, the internationally filled position for the
deputy remained filled only for 6 months and was not renewed. Performance of the international consultant
did not meet expectations, and the PIU argued that a new internationally hired staff would take too much
time before becoming effective. It was also deemed that the expenses for such a position to be filled again
internationally would not justify the results. In hindsight, this proved to be correct.

The project implementation unit was the only stable element providing continuity in a project that otherwise
experienced continuous changes, both at the top ministry level, but also at the executive divisional level
further down the administrative line, particularly at the earlier stages of project implementation. The unit
assured the efficient and effective handling of financial management, accounting and financial reporting.
As such the elaboration of a financial management manual was procured and adequately implemented. The
unit furthermore assured that annual audit reports were always received by the Bank within the prescribed
6 months following each Government fiscal year. The only flaw, albeit temporary, was the late submission
of the procurement implementation plan for the investment bank advisers to be hired under the loan, which
had, however, no project performance related consequences, as even without the written plan, the actual
bidding and hiring process was smooth .

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is negligible.

Unfortunately, the project did not contribute significantly to institutional development. Following the
merger of the "Conseil National de Privatisation" with the ministry MPCR, there was but one institution
left to potentially benefit from the advisors and from the learning effect foreseen through the actual
transactions to be carried out. This ICR rates the institutional development as negligible. The capacity of
the staff in MPCR was to be built on the job with the assistance of the advisors. Given the delay in
finalizing the list of the sets of companies to be privatized, and the fact that only one set (the cement firms)
was fully implemented, albeit without a final sale success, this initially intended learning on the job had
therefore no chance to occur. Even the in-house courses that the advisors gave at the ministry were having a
very low attendance. Finally, the fact that the advisors were not working with transaction teams (for the
lack thereof) made them initially work in complete isolation from the rest of the ministry, reporting only to
the PIU, and later becoming highly paid assistants to the chiefs of the three major units in the ministry,
each of which dealt with a specific subsector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One factor outside the control of government is the international buyers' appetite for assets on offer for
sale in Algeria. This appetite depends in part on the world economic situation in general, and hence has
repercussions on the financial means available to firms and is therefore outside government's control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Key elements under the project, for which the government could have been clearly in control but was not
were: the management of its dialogue with the trade unions, the firm and definite selection of the set of five
transactions to be undertaken, the selection of a strong and high level privatization champion, and



                                                      - 7 -

developing and maintaining a clear privatization strategy.

Sustained political commitment would have been very important, as even an effective institutional
framework cannot substitute for it. However, in view of only a semi-effective institutional framework
having been achieved in the end, for lack of having in place an effective privatization agency, it was very
difficult to translate into action whatever political commitment there might have been initially.
Furthermore, establishing an effective institutional framework would also have provided the confidence
required for increased commitment. Thus, effective institutions and political commitments should have gone
hand in hand, but did not. The government decided to abolish the "Conseil National de privatisation"
which was effectively the privatization agency, and decided to move its functions over to the MPCR
ministry instead, which was then mandated to carry out the entire privatization implementation program.
Thus, the ministry also became the de facto privatization implementation agency, which is/was not
necessarily conducive. However, this result became only clear over time, which is why the Bank did not
oppose these changes. In addition, and as a reviewing body, the "Conseil d'Etat de participation" was
created, comprising the entire cabinet. This council was to vet any privatization decision, including bid
offers. Any minister could veto a decision as unanimity was required. Given all of the above, the
government failed to create the conducive environment for privatization success.

In addition, a leading person should have been installed by the government and been present and able to
command respect both within government and with the public at large. He/she should have had excellent
managerial skills, and good experience in successful project implementation and commercial negotiations,
but critically, also would have needed to be a public advocate of change and committed to the success of
the process. Unfortunately, several changes at the helm of the ministry occurred and provided neither the
required leadership nor the continuity required for a politically charged process such as privatization.

Establishing who is responsible for what and who has authority to do what in the privatization program
would have been of particular importance in Algeria. Despite the fact that a semi-effective institutional
framework for the decision making was in place, several attempts that were undoubtedly made to move the
privatization agenda forward were subject to negotiation between the ministry and the influential trade
unions.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A weak executive body (the ministry) failed to overcome opposition from vested interests. One of the
revolving ministers in charge was did not manage the dialogue with the unions in an effective manner. The
trade unions were reportedly not against privatization in principle, but were against the way the ministry
managed the process. In addition, a more effective body would have needed the following attributes, which
neither the ministry nor its in-house PMU had:

l The administrative authority to require state enterprises to comply with its requirements for information
    and other items such as creating a data room, receiving potential investors etc. This is important as it is
    to be expected that initially SOEs and other political interests tend to resist privatization. Neither the
    ministry nor its PMU as the executive bodies had the power to obtain information and instruct actions
    to be taken, and progress was frustrated. Both lacked the necessary gravity and the sufficient amount
    of technically skilled manpower to be effective, despite the fact that they had three advisors.

l The necessary amount of professional skills to implement the program would thus have been key.
    Privatization would have required additional special skills and experiences ­ over and above the few
    consultants hired under the loan. These skills (such as financial, accounting, legal and communications
    skills) are not usually found in the public sector, let alone the experience to utilize these skills in the



                                                     - 8 -

    context of a privatization transaction. For this reason a ministry staffed merely by civil servants was
    unlikely to be effective, particularly as it was constrained by civil service pay scales, which in turn had
    implications on staff motivation and commitment.

5.4 Costs and financing:
No cost overruns occurred. Loan proceeds allocated to fund the various activities under the three categories
mentioned above were used as planned, but did not reach the full volume. The borrower had at one point
requested an extension about one year prior to the closing date when it was not yet clear that the political
turn around to halt all privatization foreseen under the project would occur later on. Once that decision
was made, though, the extension was no longer an option. Consequently, a cancellation of US$ 1.3 million,
representing 22 percent of the loan took place based on the request of the borrower just two months prior
to the closing date. Total utilization of the loan amounted to 52 percent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
While a sustainability section is not completed for LIL PADs, the quality of supervision assessment that
was undertaken by the Bank's quality assurance group (QAG) shortly after the mid-term review noted in its
sustainability section that the institutional framework for privatization was still weak and that the
momentum for privatization, while it existed at the time, was in danger to slow down because of weak
institutional capacity and uncertain political commitment, as is further explained in section 7. The project
was appraised when a new government had taken office and relations with the Bank were improving.
However, the reality encountered at project implementation was not as anticipated.                There was,
temporarily, one important reform champion but support for reforms was not broad-based. There was a
power struggle among potential winners and losers from reforms, with the latter gaining ascendancy,
particularly during the second half of the implementation period, when the first bids were arriving at the
time of a presidential election campaign. The agreed privatization program itself was questioned and
debate about it was reopened.

 Based on the above, sustainability was not achieved, and if needed to be rated, would receive an
unsuccessful rating, even though free financing from EU sources might possibly provide for some
continuation of a privatization program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition arrangements foreseen.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during Project preparation is rated satisfactory.

This rating is given despite the fact that the project was appraised on somewhat optimistic assumptions
about the government's political commitment to privatization and the institutional capacity on the ground
for project implementation.        To ensure transparency, the Bank rightly insisted on high financial
management standards for the project which caused loan effectiveness to be delayed by 4 months beyond
the standard 3 months. While the quality of supervision assessment remarked that the project was probably
not ready for implementation for this very reason, this ICR does not deem this comment to be sufficient to
rate the lending performance of the bank below satisfactory. Both, quantity and quality of Bank staff were
satisfactory. The Bank project furthermore benefitted from both, a private sector development strategy note



                                                      - 9 -

which had just been completed prior to project design, and from the Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS), both of which emphasized the need for and intention of the government to make inroads towards
reducing the weight of the public sector.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated unsatisfactory.

This rating is given despite active and regular supervision of the project. The most serious weakness in
project supervision was the frequent turnover of task team leaders - 5 over the course of implementation,
some of whom were not experienced enough for the task or lacked the required expertise. Given issues
related to borrower commitment and their need for expert advice and closer support, it was vital to have
consistent interaction with the Bank. In addition, despite the efforts to keep the process going, the overall
quality of supervision was not adequate; issues were too complex and numerous to be handled by a single
staff member.

Despite these serious weaknesses, the project team pro-actively tried to turn around the situation that led to
the above-mentioned delays, using visits by special advisors to help rebuild political commitment at high
levels of government. Regular supervision visits to strengthen the institutional capacity of the concerned
government agencies, especially the PIU, also took place.

Concerning the procurement process in the context of selecting investment bank advisors for the five
individual sets of complex transactions, two issues are worth pointing out. First, there were some delays
pertaining to the Bank's review of draft contracts submitted by the borrower for non objection, due to
temporary staff shortage. Second, the establishment of the long list of investment banks could have been
screened better, as it allowed in one particular case for a firm without a proven track record to be included
on the short list; and to winning the subsequent bid. It turned out later on that the firm did not carry out the
assignment to the full satisfaction of the borrower. A payment dispute is pending.

Prior to the point of Government's overall reversal of supporting the project (following the rejection by the
"Conseil de Participation d'Etat" of the bids for the sale of the cement company for reasons of insufficient
bid amount), the Bank pointed out its position regarding the problems that it foresaw in connection with
this particular cement company sale, such as the Government restrictions stipulated in the bidding
documents (cahier des charges) or the restrictions of marketing the product, the latter still to be exclusively
channeled through the remaining Government minority shareholder. These restrictions were discussed as
part of the active supervision process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

While the Government and Bank project teams tried to build support for privatization through (i)
strengthening the privatization implementation agencies; and (ii) reaching agreement on a revised list of
companies to be privatized, overall Bank performance is still rated unsatisfactory for the reasons cited
above and due to its weak assessment of government commitment during preparation and frequent task
team leader turnover.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in preparing the project is rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 10 -

An intensive dialogue with the Algerian authorities at both technical and political level regarding Bank
support to the country's privatization program existed prior to and during project preparation, and close
collaboration with an Algerian counterpart team had been established as a result.

Also, many concrete privatization related tasks had been accomplished prior to and during the preparation
that demonstrated courageous steps that served as indicators as to a readiness for further privatization
action. These steps should be considered as indirect preparation for the project and had consisted of the
passing of legislation that allowed public enterprises and public holding companies to dispose of their
assets as per the commercial code, including divesting them following a simple procedure under the
stipulations for partial privatization. Holding companies, as a consequence, did not shy away from
downsizing large conglomerates and liquidating distressed public enterprises.         In addition,   massive
liquidation efforts resulted in the closing of 935 out of a total of 1,324 so-called local public enterprises,
and of 78 out of a total of 411 national public enterprises, resulting in a lay-off of some 320,000
employees. Finally, under the partial privatization scheme, the holding companies also had arranged for 3
public offerings at the then newly created Algiers Stock Exchange, involving 20 percent of shares each in 3
public enterprises. All of these actions were strong indicators of commitment during the preparation phase.

Finally, the new leadership at the time, through the new Government, had expressed their commitment to
further accelerate privatization and address its most pressing constraints. A new ministry (MPCR) had
been created, and its mandate included privatization in addition to investment promotion and coordination
of economic reform. The fact that there were effectiveness delays that exceeded by 4 months the usual time
span should not be allowed to tilt the otherwise satisfactory preparatory performance of the borrower,
despite the fact that effectiveness delays are sometimes - not here, though- the result of insufficient
preparation. In the case of the project, they were not substantial, but merely administrative delays.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation is rated unsatisfactory.

Performance was experiencing ups and downs throughout the course of project implementation until the
time of the mid-term review. On the one hand, the necessary legal changes had been implemented, but on
the other hand, leadership at the helm of the implementing ministry had been changed 3 times, resulting in
an unstable, albeit still acceptable course of action during the first phase of the project, when most of the
preparatory work was completed to hire the individual advisors and the investment bank advisory services
pertaining to the 5 sets of complex transactions to be undertaken under the project. Following the mid-term
review, Government performance was on a consistently declining slope from then on during the second,
but more crucial phase of the project, which was to lead to actual transactions. A forth change of
ministerial leadership took place at that stage, even though this time no new minister was named, but rather
a deputy minister reporting to the prime minister, pointing to a reduced importance of the ministry by
moving decision making to the prime minister's office. A full circle change of support to the project
occurred and all pending transactions and activities were halted, despite the fact that not long before, an
extension of the project had been requested. Acceptance of this request by the bank had been made
contingent on certain benchmarks being reached first, most of which were met. However, the extension
process was overtaken by events, when the Government informed the Bank that all activities were halted.
The resulting lack of implementation can only be rated unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency, the ministry, is rated as unsatisfactory.

Originally, 2 implementing agencies were foreseen, namely the ministry MPCR and the privatization



                                                     - 11 -

agency. The latter was abolished and its functions merged into the ministry, as mentioned earlier. The
performance of the implementing agency that resulted, namely the ministry, was closely linked to that of
the Government overall, as the actions of the former had direct implications for the latter. Regarding
management and staffing, the recruitment of good "cadres" in a new privatization agency and strong
advisers around the ministers was hoped from the very beginning but seemed never to have really
happened. Weakness at the top of the MPCR revealed limited political clout and lack of strong backing by
the President. Only a very strong signal from the Presidency and the appointment of a politically strong
and managerially competent privatization minister, could have reversed the situation.

Within the ministry, the PIU consistently tried to discharge its duties under the project in a timely and
professional manner, and often even without the necessary support from within the ministry. Procurement
functions, financial management and timely reporting, communication and coordination with the Bank and
with the various consultant companies hired under the project were, if viewed in isolation, very satisfactory.
However, these functions alone were "only" necessary but unfortunately not sufficient to bring about an
overall acceptable performance of the ministry, and as a consequence, of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

The rating of this performance is based on the above assessment, and on the lack of a clear commitment to
the privatization strategy. The fact that no privatization took place, not even the less controversial ones,
during the life of the project, lead the Bank to rate as highly unsatisfactory the results of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

A fundamental lesson which may differentiate Algeria from other former socialist countries can be
summarized as follows: because of the country's relative wealth (oil & gas revenues) and its history of
building State Owned Enterprises (SoEs) after independence, most of the Algerian officials/politicians and
part of the population may still have been convinced that, after all, the country can afford to have poorly
performing SoEs and does not need to privatize. The rejection of the only bid for the cement plant can be
seen as an indicator of that.

Hence, the failure of the project stems not so much from the usual difficulties of privatization (many
entrenched interests against privatization per se, plus ambivalent if not hostile perception of foreign
investment from part of the population), but from:

(i) very difficult political circumstances and interactions between political events & privatization (four
successive ministers); and

(ii) poor managerial set-up (limited managerial capabilities of the first minister, poor relation between the
PIU and the ministry's departments, limited capability motivation of the "cadres").

The failure of the first (and third) minister to pass the necessary legislation upfront (essential to clarify a
very convoluted institutional set-up that the Bank had already pointed at in the 1996-7 structural
adjustment loan missions) dealt a serious blow to the credibility of the privatization process and gave
strong hopes to opponents to privatization that the process could be brought to a halt, even before it took
some speed. Weakness at the top of the MPCR revealed limited political clout and lack of strong backing
by the President. Only a very strong signal from the Presidency and the appointment of a politically strong
and managerially competent privatization minister, could have reversed the situation. During its final



                                                      - 12 -

phase, the project itself had essentially lost the "little steam" that was left and the authorities were not
ready to pay the political price needed to "re-dynamize" privatization.

Regarding management and staffing, the recruitment of good "cadres" in a new privatization agency and
strong advisers around the ministers was hoped from the very beginning but seemed never to have really
happened.

Resulting from the above, the remaining lessons can be summarized as follows:

l Intensive supervision can fix a project that may have design flaws. In view of this, some regions invest
    more resources in project supervision than in project appraisal, given resource constraints. It is,
    however, better to assess risk and anticipate problems at appraisal to improve the chances of
    smoother project implementation and ensure achievement of project development objectives. Realistic
    risk assessment is important so that the supervision strategy can be focused on project elements with
    higher risks.

l Since political support for privatization was still fragile in Algeria, it might have been better to distill
    quickly the benefits of privatization achieved in transactions that occurred prior to the Bank's
    loan and communicate these strategically to all stake holders, including the trade unions, using all
    effective channels of communication. There was such a case (a steel mill), where three things occurred
    simultaneously, and were conducive to the sale: a drop in oil prices, no more budgetary resources as a
    result to pay the large number of employees of the loss making enterprise and the presence of a buyer.
    The importance of the communication campaign cannot be emphasized enough and should not have
    been left to another donor (even though its funding was cost free), as the Bank lost control of that
    important tool.

l For institutional sustainability, a PIU set-up is not necessarily ideal. The PIU often times has a
    somewhat isolated role inside the implementing ministry, and moreover, once its staff leave all
    institutional memory is lost.

l The role of the Bank in supervising and/or in re-emphasizing in detail the work of the investment banks
    in a project in which investment banks are hired to advise the borrower on specific transactions to be
    undertaken (hands-off vs. micro management) should be clear. The ambivalence of respective roles
    needs to be clarified ahead of time. This would avoid the question as to what extent the Bank should
    take a position in a specific proposed transaction if there is a difference of opinion between what an
    investment bank recommends and what the Government is willing to accept in the course of preparing
    bidding documents, particularly if they are deemed as being to restrictive. In the case of the path
    breaking cement privatization, this difference of opinion occurred, when Government was setting
    certain preconditions which the investment bank advisor did not believe were merited and in their view
    reduced the investors' willingness to offer a price that would meet Government's expectations. In the
    end, the resulting low bid price was the deal breaker and had implications for bringing to a halt all
    further privatization intended under the project.

Finally, the design of the project per se was adequate. There was a small window of opportunity for
privatization in 2000. A small operation such as a LIL was the right response to such an opportunity and
offered the flexibility to adequately respond to the client effectively. However, the project risk was
probably not sufficiently articulated and an exit strategy should have been mentioned and built in.




                                                     - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments were received from the Borrower on the ICR itself on June 30, 2004, consisting of 5 main
sections.

The first section informs about a Government decision of June 29, 2004 regarding a new orientation of the
privatization policy.

The second section revisits the reasons from the Borrower's stand point as to why the operation failed to
achieve its objective, namely because (i) the Bank did not sufficiently review the work of the investment
banks that were hired as advisors under the project, (ii) the investment bank, in the case of the cement
privatization preparation, did not propose a more appropriate sales strategy, and (iii) the Borrower suffered
from institutional insufficiencies, the weaknesses of which however are overemphasized in the Bank's ICR
and could have been reduced through a more active Bank intervention, particularly since it was a LIL
operation.

The third section deals with the ICR's notion that the failure of the cement privatization was primarily due
to the lack of political will to carry through with the sales transaction and claims it was not, and moreover
states that all along the Government policy towards privatization remained a supportive one, as evidenced,
e.g. through the opening of the capital base ("ouverture de capital") of some 20 companies. The section
makes suggestions as to rephrasing certain paragraphs of the ICR that question the general privatization
support policy of the Government.

The fifth section points out a few factual errors in the document, all of which have been taken into account.

The last section rejects the Bank's view point stipulated in the ICR that there was a conflict of
responsibility pertaining to the privatization concerning one of the public sector commercial banks between
the ministry of finance and the ministry of privatization.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

The project ended before a single privatization transaction was implemented. However, one of the flagship
sales that was to occur under the project was a batch of 3 cement companies. While the contract that had
been signed with an investment bank has expired following a one time extension thereof, a privatization of
at least one if not all three cement companies through the ministry could still be forthcoming, even though
the first round of bids were rejected for reasons of bid price being insufficient. As a result, it is not
inconceivable that eventually, the project will lead to at least one successful privatization transaction, even
if long after project closure, if indeed Government realizes that its restrictions as per the charge book of the
cement flagship privatization were too stringent and its expectations too unrealistic, and is willing to
prepared a new bidding round.




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Pilot transactions completed in transparent      Decree issued on Feb. 1, 2003, by the Prime Despite new decree, no pilot transactions
manner, and creation of an institutional        Minister further clarifying (the expanded)     completed.
set-up that clearly delineates responsibilities specific role of the privatization ministry
between MPCR, PA, and public enterprise         MPCR following the dismantlement of the
holding companies                               '"Conseil National de Privatisation" and that
                                                of the holding companies.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved medium-term privatization strategy Revised strategy issued in April 2002. Short       Neither the revised strategy nor the short
document and detailed short-term                term privatization program in place. (annexed term program (bundled privatization)
privatization program                           to BTO of 8/19/2002 in form of table).         implemented
Detailed medium-term privatization program      New program, which was published and           No implementation.
                                                discussed with the trade unions.
Minimum of 5 sets of transactions launched      Of the 5 sets of transactions, one is close to While the "launch" stage was reached in all 5
in line with international best practice        being concluded, for the 2nd, the advisory     sets of transactions, a final sale did not
                                                contract is being negotiated with the winner,  occur, following the reversal of Government
                                                for the remaining 3, the preselection has      decision to move forward.
                                                been approved.
Improved procedures, organization and skills - Creation of a privatization agency (PA) still PA was never created in the end. All
of PA reflected, inter alia, in reduced time    under discussion. in view of recent minister   implementation procedures bundled in the
spent in preparing and completing               change, no final decision yet.                 MPCR ministry. No visible reduction of time
transactions and increased number of                                                           spent in preparing/completing transactions
transactions handled concurrently                                                              for lack of transaction(s).

1End of project




                                                                    - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Capacity Building of MPCR                                                1.60                 1.41                   32
Transaction Support to PA                                                3.03                 0.86                 60.6
Project Implementation Unit                                              0.32                 0.19                  6.4

Total Baseline Cost                                                      4.95                 2.46
                            Total Project Costs                          4.95                 2.46
                                              Front-end fee              0.05                 0.05
                    Total Financing Required                             5.00                 2.51




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.83             0.00              2.83
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.16)            (0.00)           (2.16)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                0.00               0.00              2.83             0.00              2.83
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.16)            (0.00)           (2.16)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               2/15/2000                 3    TASK MANAGER, PSD (1);                S               S
                                              PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                              LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                              (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               4/21/2000                 7    TASK MANAGER, PSD                     S               S
                                              (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                              SPEC.

 Supervision
               6/29/2000                  5   TASK MANAGER, PSD                     S               S
                                              (1);
                                              PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC.
                                              (2);
                                              PRIVATE SECTOR ADV.
                                              (1);
                                              LEAD FINAN. ANALYST
                                              (1)
               11/22/2000                 3   TASK MANAGER, PSD (1);                S               S
                                              PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                              LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                              (1)
               04/12/2001                 2   PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. (1);             S               S
                                              LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                              (1)
               11/16/2001                 2   SR. PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1);           S               S
                                              PSD SPECIALIST (1)
               05/23/2002                 1   SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1)                 S               S
               07/ 12/2002                2   SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1)                 S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                              (1)
               01/28/2003                 1   SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1)                 U               U
               06/15/2003                 1   SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1);                S               S
               09/13/2003                 1   SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1);                U             HU

 ICR
               01/07/2004                1     SR. PSD SPEC./TTL (1)                U             HU



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                86
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    111



                                               - 18 -

Supervision              165
ICR                       15
Total                    377




               - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Algeria, Privatization Assistance Project. World Bank Report No.
20157-AL. June 5, 2000.

2. Loan Agreement, Republic of Algeria, October 23, 2000.

3. Terms of Reference for the elaboration for a project financial management manual, Republic of
Algeria, MPCR, June 28, 2000.

4. Project supervision files, including Aide-memoires and their associated Project Supervision reports:

        June 2000
        November 2000
        April 2001
        November 2001
        May 2002
        July 2002 (mid term review)
        January 2003
        June 2003
        September 2003

5. MPCR (MPPI) Quarterly progress reports 2000 ­ 2003

6. Consultants' bi-monthly, annual and final reports 2000-2003

7. Government annual project audit reports 2000 - 2003




                                                 - 22 -

Additional Annex 8.




                       - 23 -

- 24 -

