Report No. PID8866
Project Name                     Algeria-Privatization Assistance (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       DZPE70123
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PARTICIPATION &
COORDINATION OF REFORMS (MPCR)
11 rue Ibn Baddis El Mouaiz, El Biar, Algiers, Algeria
Contact Person: His Excellency Hamid
Temmar, Minister of Participation and
Coordination of Reforms
Tel: (213-2) 92-62-82
Fax: (213-2) 92-60-98
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 4, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 21,2000
Projected Board Date             Not applicable for LIL
1. Country and Sector Background
Privatization remains a key challenge for private sector development in
Algeria. Algeria had sought to introduce privatization as early as 1994,
and has had considerable success in spinning off small units to workers.
However, the main emphasis of past efforts has been on public enterprise
reform. As a result, after a decade of restructuring public enterprises,
at an estimated cumulative cost of some DA840 billion (US$21 billion
equivalent) and some 450,000 jobs, Algeria's privatization program has not
yet resulted in a single sale of corporatized public enterprises to
outside private interests. The current Government is aware of the
shortcomings of the past approach, and in its Government Program has
expressed its commitment to accelerate privatization in a transparent
manner under a new institutional set up geared towards improving
transparency and efficiency of the privatization process.Current Status of
PrivatizationA first step towards paving the way for privatization was
made in the Loi de Finance Complementaire in May 1994. Its articles 24/25
authorized so-called "partial" privatization of public enterprises. The
terms and conditions for partial privatization specified that (i) up to 49
percent of the equity of an enterprise could be acquired by private
persons either through the Stock Exchange or negotiated agreements; (ii)
assets and activities including entire production units of a public
enterprise could be sold or divested to private interests; and (iii) the
management of an enterprise could be transferred to a private entity.
These modalities also allowed the creation of private-public joint
ventures.Subsequent legislation for privatization issued in August 1995,
Ordonnance 95-22, allowed for case-by-case "total" privatization of up to
100 percent of equity and assets of public enterprises in specified
economic sectors (building and construction, hotels and tourism, commerce
and distribution, textiles and agribusiness, various processing



industries, roads, port and airport services, and "local" small-medium
sized enterprises). It also provided for the establishment of a Conseil
National de Privatisation, in charge of executing total privatization, and
following cumbersome administrative procedures (only some of which were
removed through Ordonnance 97-12 in March 1997) under close control of the
Government. This legislation was complemented in September 1995 by the
Ordonnance 95-25 relative a la gestion de capitaux marchands d'etat, which
created initially eleven (today twelve) sectoral and five regional public
holding companies, entrusting them with the management and administration
of all the public enterprises in their respective portfolios. These
holdings in turn were placed under the control of the Conseil National des
Participations de l'Etat (CNPE), composed of eleven key Ministers and
presided by the Prime Minister and assisted by a small technical
secretariat. Under this legislation, public enterprises and public
holding, as joint stock companies, have the right to dispose of their
assets as per the commercial code, including divesting them following a
simple procedure under the stipulations for partial privatization. Public
enterprises can thus sell their assets (including complete operating
units) to private buyers or contribute them to new joint ventures with
private partners; and public holding can sell full sub-units or large
equity stakes of public enterprises in their portfolio. In principle,
these transactions need the consent of the CNPE, which however has given
large leeway to public holdings. Until recently, the cash proceeds of such
sales have stayed with the holdings, while on the contrary proceeds of
total privatization total were deemed to go to the budget. The holdings
have certainly played a positive role in introducing some accountability
in enterprises where managers had previously acted without any oversight
by the State, and in preparing the ground for the eventual privatization
of enterprises of their portfolio. They have caused these enterprises to
introduce accounting systems and submit more reliable financial
statements, regularize ownership titles on their property, implement
financial restructuring (with massive debt write-offs by the State) and
reduce staffing. They also have not shied away from downsizing large
conglomerates and liquidating distressed enterprises. Their massive
liquidation effort resulted in the closing of 935 out of a total of 1324
local public enterprises, and of 76 out of a total of 411 national public
enterprises. The costs of financial restructuring under the holding
regime amounted to Dinar 327 billion (in addition to prior restructuring
costs of Dinar 513 billion). In the context of this restructuring, some
320,000 employees were laid off between 1996-98 alone. At the same time,
the holdings facilitated the creation of some 1050 new private enterprises
through spin-off or sale of assets to employees and managers, resulting in
an estimated 25,000 jobs. Under the partial privatization regime, the
holdings also arranged for three public offerings at the Algers Stock
Exchange, involving 20 percent of shares each for a pharmaceutical
enterprise, a food-processing firm and a hotel, as well as for eight joint
ventures, six of which originated with the holding for chemistry and
pharmacy. However, holdings have had no incentives to support any effort
at total privatization (implying transfer of revenues to the Treasury), or
at transfer of strategic control (implying loss of management positions)
of existing enterprises in their portfolio. Partial privatization also
has followed simpler procedures by allowing gre-a-gre and not requiring
any competitive bidding procedures -- at expense of transparency.
Notwithstanding this incentive structure, the Conseil de Privatisation was
asked to prepare the total privatization of 89 production units through
-2 -



international competitive bidding. A first batch of 35 units was offered
for sale in fall 1989, followed by a second batch of 26 units in February
1999. However, due to the political transition, the previous Government
eventually aborted the process, even though 36 tenders (half of them from
international investors) met the technical qualifications and exceeded the
stipulated minimum price. As a result, Algeria's privatization program has
not yet resulted in a single sale of majority interests or transfer of
control to outside private interests. Problems and IssuesThe new Algerian
Government established in December 1999 is well aware of the shortcomings
of the existing privatization arrangements and of the limitations of the
privatization program inherited from the previous Government. These
include: (i) lack of a privatization strategy, with clear time-bound
objectives underpinned by a detailed implementation plan and supported by
a broad-based information campaign; (ii) an overall lack of financial and
human resources devoted to the privatization process and its supporting
institutions, particularly in the Conseil de Privatisation; (iii) unclear
legal and institutional arrangements, with confusion between two parallel
tracks (partial versus total privatization) and overlapping roles and
responsibilities of the Conseil de Privatisation and the holdings; and
(iv) a bias towards partial privatization, often without addressing issues
of enterprise governance (in the case of public offerings) or management
expertise (in the case of sale to employees), and with only limited
transparency. An important obstacle in the recent past, lack of investor
interest, may be gradually disappearing as: (i) perceptions of investors
from abroad (strategic partners as well as expatriate Algerians), of the
country's security situation and its investment climate, is improving; and
(ii) as there is a potential to offer more attractive enterprises (with
better financials, reporting, and profitability) for privatization than in
the past. Government strategyAlgeria's new leadership, both President and
Government, have expressed early on their commitment to accelerate
privatization and address its most pressing constraints, and have
emphasized the urgent need for Algeria to attract foreign investment. A
new ministry, the Ministry of Participation and Coordination of Reforms
(MPCR) has been created, and is likely to receive a broad mandate
comprising: the exercise of ownership rights over state-owned equity in
enterprises; privatization; investment promotion; and coordination of
economic reforms.   This Ministry will among other tasks, articulate the
privatization strategy, elaborate and control the privatization program,
supervise a new privatization agency, and take on the responsibilities of
the former technical secretariat of the CNPE, with expanded control over
the holdings.   The Conseil de Privatisation will be transformed into a
full-fledged Privatization Agency (PA) with adequate resources, primarily
staffing and funds to hire badly needed external advisers.A strong
emphasis will be placed on privatization transactions with strategic
partners and foreign investors, with extensive use of investments banks,
auditing firms, consultants and legal advisers. Growing numbers of foreign
firms are expressing interest in investing in Algerian public enterprises
in a number of sectors and public holdings are currently pursuing
discussions with diverse foreign partners. The authorities thus realize
how urgent it is to acquire high level professional expertise and build
the capacity to handle complex privatization transactions with foreign
investors in a transparent manner. The existing public holdings will be
dissolved and about 40 new industrial/financial sub-holdings or "groups"
will be created to take over the public enterprises currently under the
holdings. The role of these new groups with respect to the upcoming
-3 -



privatization of the enterprises in their portfolio, and thus vis-a-vis
the Privatization Agency, will need to be further clarified. However, it
is envisioned that execution of most privatization transactions, whether
partial or total, will be concentrated in the Privatization Agency. As
mentioned above, exercise of ownership rights and overall responsibility
for the privatization process will rest with MPCR.     Thus, a strong
capacity will also need to be built in this Ministry. The immediate
objective for the next 18 to 24 months will be to launch and complete
about 50 significant privatization operations - targeted mainly at
strategic investors who will bring know-how, improved management
techniques and corporate governance, and financing. The major concern is
not to generate cash proceeds from privatization, but to develop and
improve the performance the enterprise sector. To this end, strategic
investors can acquire a stake in an public enterprises by either buying
existing shares or by subscribing to new shares through a major capital
increase, if it is deemed that the enterprise is in need of significant
funding. Further, the Government is aware that the legislative framework
for privatization will need to be revamped - unifying in particular the
partial privatization and total privatization tracks.     It is also
expected that most sectoral restrictions to privatization will be lifted,
and that the scope of privatization will be expanded to most of the
economy. Even for the hydrocarbons sector, there is an ongoing debate
about the scope of privatization. However, for most infrastructure
services, private sector participation will only be engaged in the context
of regulatory reforms which will take some time to develop.
2. Objectives
Over the last two years, there has been an intensive dialogue with the
Algerian authorities on both the technical and political level regarding
the formulation of a private sector development (PSD) strategy. In the
context of this dialogue, a broad private enterprise survey was conducted
and a PSD Strategy Note was prepared in close collaboration with an
Algerian counterpart team. Furthermore, initial discussions were held with
the current Government to identify potential Bank Group interventions to
support implementation of this strategy. The proposed Privatization
Assistance Project (PAP) grew out of this dialogue, and would be a first
element of a broader effort to support the proposed PSD strategy (see Box
1, Section B below).The project development objective of the proposed
project, which would address a key issue identified in the PSD strategy
note, is to create the basis for an accelerated implementation of a
credible privatization program under a new institutional set-up. To this
end, the project provides capacity building support to the Ministry of
Participation and Coordination of Reforms (MPCR) under whose authority the
privatization process will be streamlined and centralized. Transaction
assistance will also be provided to the Conseil de Privatisation, which
will be converted into a Privatization Agency reporting to MPCR in charge
of executing transactions. The assistance provided under the project
should enable the Government to close a set of pilot transactions
following a competitive and transparent process, thus providing an
important learning experience and demonstration effect for future
scaling-up of the privatization program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Not applicable for LIL
-4-



4. Description
Component 1: Capacity Building of MPCRThis component aims to strengthen
the institutional capacity of the MPCR, by providing financial resources
and expertise, and to streamline privatization procedures. Specifically,
the component allows for hiring of: (i) one visiting high level
international policy advisor to the Minister; (ii) legal advisory services
from an international reputable legal firm; and (iii) two resident
technical advisors to MPCR's department in charge of oversight of
enterprise groups. The component also includes funds for hiring
short-term specialists and/or organizing a study tour for MPCR staff.
Component 2: Transaction Support to Privatization Agency
This component aims to strengthen the transaction capacity of the
Privatization Agency. Specifically, the component allows for hiring of:
(i) one resident senior transaction advisor to the Privatization Agency;
(ii) investment banks to assist in the implementation of about five
complex transactions; and (iii) advisory services to design specific
outreach and information activities.
Component 3: Project Implementation Unit
This component aims to ensure adequate general and financial management of
the Project. Specifically, the component allows for hiring of: (i) a
project sub-manager with procurement skills; and (ii) a financial
management specialist.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 0.5
IBRD 5
IDA
Total Project Cost 5.5
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be ensured by the project implementation unit
described above, supported by a dedicated senior staff of the MPCR.
Following the successful example of the Bank's cooperation with the Social
Development Agency (ADS), the unit will be housed in the MPCR, but be set
up as a legal entity with financial and administrative autonomy under the
commercial code. Through the dedicated senior staff, the unit will report
directly to the Minister. The capabilities of the PIU will be assessed
before effectiveness with respect to financial management and reporting
systems, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal and
other control procedures. An accounting firm is being engaged to help
design a proper accounting system which, when implemented, will ensure
that the project accounting meets "International Accounting Standards" as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee. Draft
templates for the Financial Management Reports will be attached to the
Project Implementation Plan.
7. Sustainability
Not applicable for LIL
-5-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Not applicable for LIL
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Core environmental legislation is in place in
Algeria. The public enterprises selected for the pilot transactions
supported by this Project will be chosen among the group of enterprise
with no or minimal environmental liabilities. At the same time, the
environmental capacity of the MPCR and the Privatization Agency will be
strengthened under follow-up privatization assistance from the European
Union and/or the World Bank. Terms of reference for the investment banks
hired under the Project will include the obligation to ensure that
environmental aspects are duly taken into account in the preparation and
negotiations of the transactions.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Axel R. Peuker
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-8676
Fax:   (202) 522-2151
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 21, 2000.
- 6 -



