Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7029-AL
Loan Agreement
(Privatization Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 23, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7029-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2000, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions), with the modification set forth below, 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Page  2
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation 
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BAD" means the Borrower’s Algerian Development Bank (Banque 
Algérienne de Développement), established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Ordinance No. 71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(b)
"Banque d'Algérie" means the Borrower’s central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in said Interest Period;
(d)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
date on which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is 
established, such date being the first day of the Interest Period next 
following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn;
(e)
"MPCR" means the Ministry of Participation and Coordination 
of Reforms of the Borrower;
(f)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be 
established within MPCR in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Privatization Council" means Conseil de Privatisation, the 
privatization council established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Ordinance No. 95-22, dated August 26, 1995, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and any successor thereto;
(h)
"Privatization Legislation" means, collectively, the 
Borrower’s Ordinance No. 95-22, dated August 26, 1995, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; the Borrower’s Ordinance No. 95-25, dated 
September 25, 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time; the 
Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 95-404, dated December 2, 1995, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and the Borrower’s Executive 
Decree No. 96-104 dated March 11, 1996, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; each "a Privatization Legislation";
(i)
"Privatization Transaction" means a transaction to privatize 
a Public Enterprise (as this term is hereinafter defined) to be carried 
out using the technical assistance provided to the Borrower under Part B 
of the Project;
(j)
"Procedure Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01(d) of this Agreement, prepared by the Borrower in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as this term 
is hereinafter defined), and detailing the auditing, accounting and 
financial reporting arrangements for the Project;
(k)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the 
Project which, inter alia: (i) specifies the criteria for the eligibility 
and carrying out of Privatization Transactions, including detailed 
procedures and guidelines for the award, in a transparent manner, of 
privatization contracts; (ii) identifies targets and indicators to be 
used in evaluating progress toward the achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; (iii) sets out the social and environmental standards to 
Page  3
govern the carrying out of the Privatization Transactions; (iv) defines 
the content of the Procedure Manual; and all other relevant provisions, 
as reviewed periodically between the Borrower and the Bank;
(l)
"Public Enterprise" means a legally autonomous enterprise or 
entity producing goods and services, a majority or all of the outstanding 
voting stock, or other proprietary interest, of which is owned by the 
Borrower or by an agency thereof, and this term shall include a division 
of a Public Enterprise, and/or a commercial activity or service 
undertaken by a Public Enterprise; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to five million Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Banque d’Algérie on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to fifty thousand Dollars ($50,000). The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan 
in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, the 
first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest 
Page  4
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal 
to one-twenty-fourth (1/24) of said Disbursed Amount. The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said 
Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, if any one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed 
Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be 
payable after April 15, 2018, the Borrower shall also pay on such date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization 
schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing 
Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) 
of this Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so 
converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate 
for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical, administrative and privatization practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Page  5
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action with a view to, or resulting in, the 
suspension of the Borrower’s privatization process.
(b)
A legislation of the Borrower shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the 
Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that 
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 shall have 
occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has adopted and issued suitable 
regulations detailing the functions and responsibilities of MPCR for the 
purposes, namely, of the achievement of the Project;
Page  7
(b)
that the Borrower has designated, within BAD, a financial 
management specialist in charge of payments for contracts financed under 
the Project;
(c)
that the Borrower has appointed, within PIU, an accountant 
under terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
that the Borrower has adopted a Procedure Manual acceptable 
to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Place de Pérou
Algiers 16000
Democratic and Popular Republic
  of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINPLAN
67073
(213) 
2-736440
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
  OF ALGERIA 
By /s/ Idriss Jazairy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  8
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   4,950,000
100%
services, training and
study tours
(2)
Fee
      50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 
of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms; (ii) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iii) training and study 
tours, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to create the basis for an 
accelerated implementation of a sustainable privatization program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building of MPCR
Strengthening of MPCR’s institutional capacity, through the 
provision of legal and privatization technical assistance, to enable it 
to coordinate and supervise the Borrower’s privatization process.
Page  9
Part B:
Privatization Transaction Support
Provision of legal, financial and economic technical assistance to 
the Privatization Council to assist with the design of outreach and 
information activities, and strengthen the Privatization Council’s 
capacity to carry out Privatization Transactions.
Part C:
Support for Project Implementation
Support to PIU, through the provision of training and expert 
services, to strengthen the PIU’s capabilities to implement the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
Page  10
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
The Borrower shall, not later than November 1, 2000, establish, and 
thereafter maintain, PIU with qualified staff in adequate numbers whose 
experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, and 
with adequate equipment to enable PIU to function properly. PIU shall be 
managed by a coordinator who shall operate under the auspices of the 
Borrower’s MPCR. PIU shall be responsible for the procurement and 
disbursement processes under the Project.
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 31, 2001, or such later date 
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2002 or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report, 
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have Requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in 
the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  12
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
