_ j.     S 9D; -ke 
Dowment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL uS ONLY
Report No. P-6150--E
IMEORANDUM AND RECOMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIOIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 ILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
MICRO AND SMALIS ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1994
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6150 KE
Type: MOP
This document has a estricted distribuon and may be ased by recipients only in the perfonmance of
teir official duties. lts contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIV4LENTS
Currency Unit =Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
US$ 1.00=Ksh 71.25 (August 25, 1993)
Ksh l.00=US$ 0.014
SDR 1.00=US$ 1.389 (December 15, 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCkL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATU         Applied Technology Unit
CBS         Central bureau of Statistics
CRT         Center for Research and Technology
DAT         Directorate f.or Applied Technology
DIT         Directorate of Industrial Training
DRD         Directorate of Research and Development
DIT         Directorate of Technical Training
FAD         Finance and Accounts Department
FKE         Federation of Kenyan Employers
IT          Institute of Technology
rrc         Industrial Trainig Center
JKA         Jua Kali Association
JKF         Jua Kali Federation
KIRDI       Kenya Industrial Research Development Institute
KIBT        Kenya Institute of Business Training
KREP        Kenya Rural Enterprise Program
MRTT&T   Ministry of Research, Technical Training & Technology
NITC        National Industrial Training Council
NP          National Polytechnic
NYS         National Youth Service
PDU         Planning and Development Unit
PSD         Private Sector Development
PSC         Project Steering Committee
TGU         Training and Gender Unit
TTI         Technical Trainimg Institute
VET         Vocational Education and Traniing
YP          Youth Polytechnic



FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Kenya
Beneficiaries:       The nain beneficiaries are micro- and small
enterprises/entrepreneurs, many of wvhom are in the
informal sector and/or poor urban workers
Executing Agencies:  Ministry of Research, Technical Training and 1echnology
(MRTT&T) and Jua Kali Federation and Associations
Amount:              SDR 15.7 million (US$ 21.83 million)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:    Not Applicable
Financial Plan (US$ million)          GOK/JKA                IDA                To.al
A. Training Fund                       0.9                12.6                13.5
B. Technology & Infrastuctre           0.8                 5.5                 6.3
C. Institutional Development           0.3                 2.1                 2.4
D. Implementation                      0.4                 1.6                 2.0
Total                    2.4                21.8                24.2
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 12275-KE
Map               IBRD No. 24134
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA)
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING
AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for SDR 15.7 million, the equivalent of US$21.8
million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a Micro- and Small
enterprise Training and Technology Project. The Government and Jua Kali Associations would
finance approximately 10 percent costs or about US$2.4 million.
PART I:
COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. BACKGROUIND AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Background
1.   Kenya is a low-income country with a per capita income of $330 in 1992. Its population
growth rate in the period 1987-91 has averaged 3.4 percent, but the trend is a declining one with
provisional data suggesting that the rate may have fallen to 3 percent by 1992. About three
quarters of the country's land area is classified as arid or semi-arid. The economy is heavily
dependent on agricultuie, which employs about 80 percent of the labor force and contributes more
than one quarter of GDP. Coffee and tea account for about 43 percent of merchandise exports.
The service sector, including tourism, accounts for about 50 percent of GDP, is an important
source of employment and is Kenya's leading foreign exchange earner. The manufacturing sector
is relatively developed and diversified, contributes about 13 percent of GDP and employs close to
8 percent of the labor force.
2.   Independence Throueh the 1980s. Kenya's first decade after Independence in 1963 was one
of remarkable growth and structural change, with real GDP growing by more than 8 percent
annually. GDP growth (at market prices) decelerated after the 1973 oil crisis, averaging 5.4
perceuit during 1973-80. In addition to the effects of rising oil prices, this slowdown reflected the
emergence of structural constraints. Agricultural growth slowed as the margin of untapped
potential narrowed but also because of inappropriate government policies such as extensive and
inefficient public sector involvement in marketing. Industrial growth slowed' *cause the incentive
structure favored the domestic market over exports and led to an increasingly inward-looking
sector with declining opportunities for efficient import substitution. These factors were
exacerbated by the collapse of the East African Community.
3.   Annual GDP growth (at market prices) slowed to 2.2 percent during 1980-85, a period of
stabilization problems which also included political uncertainty (an attempted coup in 1982) and a
severe drought (1984). In the second half of the 1980s, economic growth recovered but, after a
small coffee boom in 1986, Kenya began to face renewed macroeconomic imbalances. During
1986-87, the Goverunent began implementing a major stabilization and adjustment program
supported by the IMF through a stand-by arrangement and e SAF (later converted into an ESAF).
Support from the Bank was provided through sector adjustment operations in agriculture (1986),



2
industry (1988) and the financial sector (1989). However, stabilization efforts were uneven and
produced mxixed results.
4.  [rhe Early 1990s. As part of IDA's continuing efforts to support policy reform in the
country, three new sectoral adjustment operations were approved: the Export Development Project
(EDP, in December 1990), an inte-grated package of policy reforms, investments, studies and
technical assistance aimed at stimulating a supply response for non-traditionml exports; the Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO II, in January 1991), which was intended to
broaden and deepen the policy reforms begun under the previous ASAO, including the elimination
of maize marketing controls; and the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EDSAC, in September
1991), which was aimed at reducing the rapid growth in public spending on education, expanding
access to education at the primary ard secondary levels, enhancing and improving the quality and
relevance of education at all levels, and strengthening sector management. However, the Gulf
crisis and the deteriorating terms of trade weakened the balance of payments in late 1990 and
early 1991. Meanwhile, efforts to control the fiscal deficit and credit expansion in FY91 were
inadequate. Instead of falling, the budget deficit rose sharply to 7.1 percent of GDP in FY91.
While the current account of the balance of payments improved in 1991, mostly because the
Government canceled or postponed non-essential imports, the net domestic assets of the banking
system increased by 23.3 percent during the year (compared with a prngrammed increase of 10
percent). Inflation increased from 15.7 percent in 1990 to 19.6 percent in 1991.
5.   Concern with deteriorating macroeconomic policy performance, increasingly poor
governance, and, in addition, in the case of bilateral donors, with lack of progress on political
reforms, led the Consultative Group (CG) meeting in November 1991 to postpone making new
aid pledges and to agree that there should be further consultations in about six months to review
progress in a number of areas. In December 1991, the IMF was unable to complete the mid-term
review of the third year of the ESAF because Kenya missed three of the four ESAF quantitative
performance criteria. However, the Government agreed with the IMF in April 1992 on a Shadow
Program of actions necessary to re-establish a sound macroeconomic framework. The program
set a fiscal deficit target of 3.5 percent for fiscal 1991/92 and 2 percent for 1992/93. The
monetary target was to restrain growth of the money supply to about 9 percent in 1992. On the
external side, the program required the introduction of a foreign exchange retention scheme to
improve export incentives and placed limits on nonconcessional foreign borrowing.
6.   IMF/IDA review missions in September 1992 and March 1993 found evidence of
significant violation of the monetary targets, but the fiscal objectives for 1991/92 were largely
achieved. Accordingly, with the macroeconomic program off track and a number of sector-
specific conditions unfulfilled, IDA was unable to release the second tranches of its ongoing EDP
and EDSAC adjustment operations. [Moreover, in October 1992, the Government reimposed a
ban on maize movement, thus reversing a previously implemented condition of ASAO II. IDA
responded to this reversal by first suspending the second tranche of ASAO II and then canceling it
in December 1992 when the ban was not lifted.] Broad money growth was 34 percent in 1992,
primarily because of abuse of the pre-shipment export financing scheme, and the provision by the
Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) of large overdrafts and rediscounts to some commercial banks.
The excessive growth in monetary aggregates fuelled inflation which accelerated sharply from
about 20 percent in 1991 to around 100 percent (on an annualized basis) during the second quarter
of 1993. As a consequence, external reforms announced by the Govermnent in February 1993-
measures such as 50 percent foreign exchange retention for traditional exports and services-
proved unsustainable. The shilling depreciated very rapidly, widening the spread between the
official rate and the interbank market rate. The March 9, 1993 devaluation of the official rate,
from KSh 36 per US$ to KSh 45 per US$, proved inadequate to restrain the growing spread. On
the fiscal side, election-related expenses and larger than anticipated export compensation payments



3
threatened to swell the 1992/93 deficit (including grants) to well over the 2 percent of GDP
target.
7.   For a brief period in March 1993, the Government abolished export retention and
contemplated other policy reversals. However, recognition of the inadequacy of such ad hoc
measures and the ultimate necessity of a stabilization program led to an accommodation with IDA
and the IMF in mid-April 1993. On the basis of the Government's willingness to take additional
actions, in close consultation with IDA and the Fund, as the evolving economic situation required,
IDA released the second tranche of th,e EDP on May 7, 1993. In May 1993, the Government
formally agreed to a new IMF monitored program covering the remainder of 1993. The program
sought to quickly stabilize the economy, achieve fiscal and monetary compression, improve the
financial performance of key strategic parastatals, eliminate most of the remaining price controls,
increase the role of markets in determining maize prices and movement, and liberalize further the
current account of the balance of payments. The CBK then began to mop up excess liquidity
through open market operations that raised drastically the weighted average nominal interest rates
on T-bills. Meanwhile, statutory cash ratios for banks were increased in a number of steps,
access to the rediscount wirndow was tightened, and commercial bank overdrafts with the CBK
were reduced. On the external front, two further devaluations of the Kenyan shilling took place
on April 20 and May 14, the first from KSh 45 per US$ to KSh 60 per US$, and the second to
KSh 64 per US$, narrowing the interbank premium to about 10 percent. At the same time,
export retention at a flat rate of 50 percent was reintroduced for all exporters and all import
controls (other than a short negative list) were lifted.
Recent Econonic Developments - Since June 1993
8. Following release of the second tranche of EDP, the subsequent abolition of import licenses
and the reintroduction of 50 percent foreign exchange retention, IDA was about to release the
second tranche of EDSAC in early June 1993. However, it came to light that major irregularities
in foreign exchange and interbank transactions were undermining the macroeconomic program
and weakening discipline in the financial sector. After these irregularities were discussed with the
Government in early August 1993, IDA communicated to the Government a list of corrective
actions necessary for tranche release.
9.   Consistent with its commitment to take additional actions as the evolving economic situation
required, the Government implemented additional measures intended to further tighten monetary
and financial sector policies: (i) the cash ratio for banks was raised in two further steps to 12
percent; (ii) the Clearing House arrangements, which allowed commercial banks to run overdrafts
with the CBK, were abolished. An institution which is unable to cover its obligations at
settlement now has to borrow from other commercial banks (up to a maximum of KSh 100
million), and will be allowed back into the Clearing House only after the advance has been
cleared in full; (iii) a series of illegal transactions between the CBK and four commercial banks,
which were confirmed by special investigations, were reversed. Appropriate interest costs and
penalties were levied on the banks involved. The licenses of three of the four banks implicated hi
the transactions were revoked. Separately, the license of another bank, which failed to meet
prudential regulations, was also revoked; and (iv) the foreign assets position of CBK was audited
and measures were put in place to ensure more accurate accounting for foreign exchange. CBK's
senior management, including the Governor, were replaced.
10.  The Government has continued its attempts to strengthen and enforce prudential regulations
in order to prevent a recurrence of the strutural problems which led to monetary
mismanagement. In particular: (i) it provided substantial equity injections to one of its
commercial banks in order to meet cash ratio, statutory capital adequacy and liquidity
requirements, and announced its intention to float its shares in this bank by June 1994, after



4
appropriate restructuring; (ii) another delinquent bank, which was under threat of losing its
license, improved loan recoveries, received substantial equity injections from its shareholders and
took actions to improve loan securitization, thus bringing it into compliance with the Banking Act
and prudential regulations. In addition, several directors of this institution were removed; (iii)
special audits of selected financial institutions to deternine their financial condition and
soundness, with particular emphasis on portfolio quality, were completed and made available to
IDA. These audits will form the basis for further remedial actions; and (iv) Section 53 of the
Banking Act was amended to eliminate most of the discretionary exemptions from prudential
regulations and all exemptions not consistent with the amendment were revoked.
11.  The tightening of monetary and financial sector policies helped to reverse the rapid
depreciation of the Kenya shilling: the market-determined interbank exchange rate appreciated
from around KSh 82 per US$ at end-June 1993 to about KSh 70 per US$ in late September 1993.
This paved the way for the unification of the official and market exchange rates on October 17,
1993; the official rate (of KSh 68 per US$ as end-1993) is now set at the p-evious day's average
market rate. Arrears on private trade credit were cleared while arrears on public and public
guaranteed debt tlgan to decline. The tighter monetary stance also contributed to the reduction
in inflation from around 100 percent (annualized rate) in the second quarter of 1993 to 55 percent
in the third quarter to around 15 percent in the fourth quarter. With this reduction in inflation,
nominal short-term interest rates on Treasury bills have begun to decline but they remain positive
in real tersn.
12. On the fiscal front, the crucial actions for EDSAC second tranche release were the
sibstantial upward adjustment of the consumer price of maize to reduce the budgetary subsidy,
and the issuance of circulars indicating that sanctions would be imposed on accounting officers
who are responsible for questionable procurement practices and unauthorized or extrabudgetary
expenditures. Both conditions were met in September 1993. Earlier, the Budget announced in
June 1993 featured significant expenditure compression, rationalization of the tariff and VAT
structures, and funding for downsizing the civil service, initially thiough voluntary early
retirement. Budgetary projections that anticipated curbing the fiscal deficit to 4 percent e GDP
(commitment basis, excluding grants) have, however, been undermined by: (a) additional
domestic interest payments (equal to 2.7 percent of GDP) resulting from interest rates that have
been kept at higher than projected levels for monetary policy purposes; (b) a higher than budgeted
maize subsidy; and (c) the fiscal costs of CBK's earlier failure to enforce financial sector
discipline. In September 1993, the Government reached agreement with the IMF on additional
revenue and expenditure measures to contain the deficit (excluding grants) to no more than 6.1
percent of GDP in 1993/94, compared to 10.4 percent in 1992/93.
13.  Other measures were taken inter alia to reduce the pressure on the fiscal deficit immediately
and in the longer run. In October 1993, all restrictions were removed on the importation of
maize and on the domestic movement of imported maize, thereby reducing the subsidy required
by the National Cereals and Produce Board; and all restrictions on the movement of domestically
produced maize in loads of up to eighty-eight 90 kilogram bags were also removed. Then, in late
December, the Government announced full liberalization of the domestic maize market. A
comprehensive civil service reform program, involving the retrenchment of civil servants in lower
grades and provision of a safety net for these retrenched workers, was launched officially. The
Government also replaced the top management of the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (KPTC) which is performing poorly and contributing to the fiscal deficit, and
announced its endorsement of the decision to separate the KPTC's postal and telecommunications
activities with a view to privatizing eventually the latter.



5
14.  Owing to strong policy actions taken in the recent past, particularly the substantial
tightening of the financial system, there are indications that economic stabilization is becoming
effective. Money supply growth, which had accelerated to an annualized rate of 35 percent and
48 percent in January and April 1993, respectively, declined to 26 percent in December. The
average Treasury Bill rate has gradually declined from a high of more than 70 percent at end-July
1993 to below 40 percent at end-December. During the last quarter of 1993, the rate of inflation
(annualized) had declined to 15 percent. Meanwhile, the fully market-based official exchange rate
remains stable.
15.  These improvements in the policy environment facilitated the successful negotiation of a
one-year ESAF arrangement with the IMF, which is cast in a three-year Folicy Framework Paper
(PFP) for 1994-96 agreed in October 1993. The CG on Kenva also met on November 22 and 23,
1993, and indicated new commitments for 1994 totalling $850 million, of which $170 million is
in the form of quick-disbursing balance of payments support. Thse amounts, along with the
refinancing of accumulated arrears (as of end-1993) that was approved by the Paris Club on
January 19, 1994, are largely sufficient to fund the residual external financing gap for 1994 as
envisioned under the ESAF arrangement. However, donors emphasized that the translation of
these commitments inte disbursements depended on the timely and decisive implementation by the
Govermnent of the economic reform agenda presented in the PFP.
B. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
16.  During 1991-93, Kenya accumulated arrears on its external debt service, for the first time
in its history. The build up of arrears reflected both the impact of exogenous developments and
those that were, hi principle, more controllable. Among :he exogenous factors, irregular rainfall
contributed to poor harvests, and unsettled conditions in neighboring countries added to a refugee
burden both of which increased the food import requirement. Tourism earnings declined and
further undermined Kenya's ability to service its debts in 1992 and the merchandise terms of trade
did not move to Kenya's advantage. However, the primary cause of the inability to service
foreign debt during this period was inconsistent macroeconomic management which contributed to
a steady buildup of inflationary pressure and eroded both donor and investor confidence in the
economy. Poor governance and ineffective macroeconomic management contributed to the
decision of donors at the Novemnber 1991 CG meeting to postpone new aid pledges. The
subsequent actions by the Bank to withhold release of tranche funds under a number of existing
BOP support operations and the decision of the IMF to not disburse the final tranche of the ESAF
also reduced anticipated capital inflows in 1992 and 1993. Net private foreign direct investment
fell from $101 million to zero between 1990 and 1992, reflecting both declining confidence in
economic management as well as concerns over growing political instability. By October 1993,
external payments arrears had ballooned to almost $700 million.
17.  Nevertheless, in the short period since the crisis of March 1993, the conditions for strong
medium term growth in Kenya have significantly improved. Sustained implementation of
stabilization policies over the past 7 months has sharply reduced runaway inflation. Important
steps toward structural reform, particularly in the area of external trade, have begun to gradually
restore confidence in Gevernment commitment to structural adjustment. By end-1993, foreign
exchange reserves had recovered to comfortable levels. These developments confirm that even
under adverse external circumstances, proper economic management can tap the natural resilience
of the Kenyan economy. The stage has been set for the export sector to lead the growth recovery
by the elimnination of all except a short list of import licenses and the introduction of a unified,
market-determined exchange rate. In November 1993, donors indicated their financial support for
the steps already taken and the promise of a sustained reform program as outlined ia the
Government's PFP. Finally, the problem of the stock of external debt service arrears has been
addressed by a rescheduling with the Paris Club of creditors on terms which should not constrain



6
Kenya's ability to finance the imports necessary for growth in the next few years. Meanwhile,
the Government is committed to strictly limiting the public sector's contraction or guarantee of
new non-concessional external borrowing.
C. KENYA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
18.  The Government's long-term development strategy is articulated in Sessional Paper No. 1
of 1986, Economic Management fior Renewed Growth, while its development objectives and
policies in the near term are set out in its recently prepared Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
1994-1996. The Sessional Paper No. 1 emphasizes the need to create productive employment
opportunities for a labor force that is now expected to increase annually by almost 500,000
entrants over the next six years. With the main sources of Kenya's existing malaise traced to the
burden of declining efficiency in the public sector and to an inadequately supportive environment
for efficient private-sector activity, the Govenunent's role increasingly is expected to be the
provision of an appropriate enabling enviromnent for private sector development rather than direct
participation in economic activity. In pursuit of its long-tenn overall goal of reducing poverty in
Kenya, the PFP outlines steps to be taken by the Government to substantially accelerate the pace
of implementation of reforms aimed at: accelerating export-led economic growth and employment
creation (the Government's recognition of the importance of promoting and developing the
country's informal sector was subsequently outlined in a comprehensive policy framework set out
in its Sessional Paper No. 2 of 192, Smal Enterprise and Jua KalH Development in Kenya),
which is essential for any sustained reduction in poverty; improving access by ordinary Kenyans
to basic education, training and health services; and, where Iiecessary, providing support to those
unable to fend for themselves. Given overall constraints on resource availability, this will require
a commitment to reorienting expenditures to poverty-reducing interventions, rather than enlarging
the overall budget.
19. Macroeconomic Policy. The immediate objective of macroeconomic policy is stabilization,
in particular, a rVpid deceleration in inflation (from an estimated anmnalized rate of almost 50
percent in 1993 to below 10 percent per year over the medium term) and strengthening of the
extemal payments position. Restrained monetary policy and a sound financial system will be
critical if price stability and a sustainable external position are to be achieved and growth through
efficient mobilization and allocation of savings to be promoted. Monetary policy will aim at
containing liquidity expansion at a pace consistent with targeted growth rates of GDP and
inflation, and maintag positive real interest rates.
20. External Policies. Recovery and sustained economic growth in Kenya depends on strong
export growth, which will be supported by the recent liberalization of the exchange and trade
system. Sound monetary and fiscal policies assisted by necessary interventions in the foreign
exchange market should result in a stable exchange rate. The Government will seek to further
liberalize trade and investment regulations. Increased economic integration with the Preferential
Trade Area (PTA) countries and enhanced export incentives will be achieved by actions that will
aim to move Kenya's tariff structure towards the lowest prevailing structure in the region. The
streamlining of Customs procedures is important for enhanced revenue collection and improved
trade flows.
21. Buduetary Policies, A major objective of fiscal policy over the PFP period is to sharply
reduce the level of domestic borrowing for deficit financing and to make net repayments on
domestic debt, thereby freeing resources for private sector activity. A substantial tightening of
fiscal policy in 1993/94 is aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit (commitment basis,
excluding grants) from 10.4 to 6.1 percent of GDP (to 2 percent by 1995/96). Fiscal policy will
remain tight, with emphasis on restraint of recurrent expenditures and further revenue
enhancement.



7
22. Public Expenditure Policies. In order to spur growth, development expenditure and
recurrent non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure will increase as a share of GDP over
the PFP period. A detailed review of public expenditures is underway with the assistance of IDA
and other donors. There will be significant progress over the PFP period, beginning with the
1994/95 budget, in shifting allocation of budget resources towards the core functions of
Government: the maintenance of law and order and the administration of justice; the provision of
broad-based basic education and health services; the provision of economic infrastructure; and the
protection of the environment.
23.  Civil Service Reform. The Government is committed to the comprehensive reform
(covering organization, financial and performance management, staffing levels, personnel
management, and pay and benefits) proposed in its rct,:ntly approved Civil Service Reform
Program and Action Plan. During the PFP period, 58,000 net civil service positions
(approximately 22 percent of the present staffing level) will be eliminated; in addition, actions
towards monetization of benefits will be initiated and a code of ethics will be developed.
24. Public Enterprises Reform. The intention of Government is to achieve significant and
irreversible public enterprise reform during the PFP period, with commercially viable operation
of strategic public enterprises and substantial divestituie of Governmr-t equity interest in non-
strategic enterprises (i.e., 190 of 207 to be brought to the point of -i.e or otherwise disposed) as
the immediate goals. Implementation of the new Corporate Governance system, expected to be
approved shortly, will, inter alia, formalize an arms-length, transparent, owner-manager
relationship between the Government and the management of strategic parastatals.
25. Agricultural Policies. In order for Kenya's agricultural sector to grow at its potential of 3-
4 percent per annum, actions are needed in policy formulation and delivery of basic service, and
to end the domination of the sector by public sector marketing and distribution organizations. In
the long term, the private sector will be expected to aggressively expand output while the role of
the Government will be largely confined to policy formulation and provision of infrastructure and
research and extension services. Over the medium term, the major aim of agricultural policies
will be the speedy recovery of agricultural production covering food crops, major commodities,
industrial raw materials, and export crops.
26.  Environment. Rising population pressures, migration and rapid urbanization have increased
the need for urgent actions to preserve and rehabilitate Kenya's fragile environment. In response
to Lhis challenge, the Gover.iment is preparing a comprehensive National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) by mid-1994. While recognizing the need to develop a comprehensive approach to
deal with Kenya's environmental problems, the Government's immediate priorities and actions
focus on forestry, wetlands, and and semi-arid lands (ASALs), the wildlife sector and the
incorporation of environmental concerns into the public investment program (in particular,
environmental impact assessments will be conducted for all energy projects).
27.  Infrastructure and Transport. Inproved infrastructure is critical to attract and enlarge
private domestic and foreign investment in Kenya. The Govermnent also recognizes that
inadequate maintenance over many years has had the effect of significantly reducing the quality of
infrastructure in a number of subsectors. During the PFP pe'ad, the Government will undertake
policies and actions essential to restoring the quality of its roads, water supply and transport
services (i.e., ports and railways).
28.  Energy Development. The implementation of a sound policy framework and an appropriate
investment program is critical to addressing the increasingly serious shortfalls in power supply
capacity. Policy reform and action in a number of areas need to accompany a five-year
investment program estimated at more than $1 billion: (i) reorganization of the power sector,



8
inclusive of providing for private sector involvement through contracting out services and inviting
bids for private investment in power development; (ii) adoption of appropriate electricity tariffs to
allow Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) to operate as a commercially viable enterprise
as well as to sustain a financially viable investment program; and (iii) fill liberalization of the
procurement, marketing and pricing of crude oil and petroleum products.
29. Human Resources Develonment. Although survey statistics indicate that population growth
rates may have peaked and entered a period of decline in Kenya, the population of Kenya will
continue to increase relatively rapidly because of the large nunber of women entering their
childbearing age. 'j o achieve an earlier population stabilization date, the Gevernment will
continue to implement appropriate and sensitive population policies-this will include increased
emphasis on family planning service delivery, including greater reliance on non-gover.nmental
organizations (NGOs) and the private sector that will result in broader coverage of the population.
The principle of cost recovery has been accepted as essential for the sustainable provision of
Government health services. Continued efforts will be devoted to improving cost recovery while
increasing enphasis on preventive/primary health care, ensuring that the poor are protected from
increased user charges. To maximize the use of scarce budgetary resolirces, the effort to improve
the nutritional status of school-age children will concentrate on children in disadvantaged districts.
Meanwhile, the HPV/AIDS epidemic is quickly assuming crisis proportions and sexually
transmitted diseases (STDS) are on the increase; the need is for interventions that bring about
behavioral change and to develop a cost-effective means of managing care for HIV positive and
AIDS patients.
30.  To address the pressing issue of growing unemployment resulting from the increased
numbers of youth entering the labor market and the fallout arising from civil service and
parastatal reform, a training and employment path focusing on enterprise-based training,
particularly in the growing informal sector, is being pursued. On thd education front, the
Government's objective during the PFP period will be to increase the access and quality of
education while continuing the process of controlling and rationalizing its own expenditures in the
sector. To this end, expenditures will be reallocated from university to basic education. In
general, the thrust of reforms to the funding arrangements and management of educational
institutions during the PFP period will seek to decentralize decision-making by gradually
enhancing the capacity, responsibility and accountability of local authorities and management
councils/boards/comnittees of educational institutions.
D. THE BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Objectives
31. The Bank shares the vision of the Sessional Paper No. 1. Accordingly, IDA's country
assistance strategy focuses on poverty reduction through accelerated growth and employment
generadon. The strategy, in its essence, remains unchanged from that discussed by the Board on
December 8, 1992. It has four main objectives: (a) encouraging the Government to provide and
sustain a stable macroeconomic environment; (b) supporting changes in the incentive framework
and infrastructure that would facilitate the development of an efficient and export-oriented private
sector; (c) significantly increasing the efficiency of the public sector, including the parastatals; and
(d) addressing longer-term human resource issues and arresting the deterioration of Kenya's
fragile environment. IDA is pursuing these objectives through policy-based sector investment
lending, and economic and sector work (ESW) in priority areas.
32. Kenya's main development challenge remains one of employment creation and poverty
reduction. Between now and the year 2000, the number of people entering the labor force each
year will average almost 500,000 (reflecting a projected labor force growth rate of around 4.1



9
percent a year - over 6 percent in the urban areas). In order to create enough jobs to gradually
reduce unemployment in the urban areas and increase incomes in the rural areas by an average of
1.5 percent per annum, the Kenyan economy needs to grow at an average annual rate of at least 7
percent between now and the year 2000. These are ambitious but achievable targets, provided
far-reaching structural reforms are implemented decisively by the Government.
Priorities
33.  The priority areas for IDA's country assistance, which are consistent with the
Government's development objectives set forth in its recently prepared PFP, are: (a) improving
public sector *ffliciency, by containing fiscal expansion, improving the efficiency of public
spending, rationalizing public sector employment, and limiting the scope and size of the parastatal
sector; (b) developing an export-oriented private sector to reduce dependence on foreigf;
savings; and (c) strengthening the basis for eqitable and sustainable development, by
addressing human resource, employment and environmental issues.
34. Public Sector Adjustment Ureentlv Needed. Stabilization and accelerated growth require
inter alia significant improvements in the efficiency of current and development expenditures, ard
parastatal reform. Improving the efficiency of current expenditures requires tackling the civil
service wage bill and the underlying structural factors which drive it-the complex organization
and functions of the central government, overstaffing and the deteriorating productivity of the
civil service. Over the medium and long term, comprehensive civil service refetr should aim to
improve organizational synergy, reduce vacancies at higher levels of the service, reverse wage
compression, and raise substantially expenditure on non-wage operations and maintenance
(O&M). The Government has accepted the need for civil service reform, and in early 1992
prepared a Civil Service Reform Program and Action Plan. In October 1993, the Government
announced the official launching of a comprehensive c!vil service reform program along the lines
proposed in early 1992.
35.  Other public expenditure issues also need to be tackled. At present, the Public Investnent
Program (PIP) is not prioritized an the basis of economic analysis or a sectoral strategy, and often
adequate provision is not made for counterpart funding and O&M. The challenge for the
Government is to reintroduce elements of financial planning and discipline into the budgetary
process, including the formulation of the PIP. This will require adherence to agreed investment
priorities and expenditure ceilings on the part of even the most politically powerful ministries, and
better monitoring of state-owned enterprises to avoid the unplanned %qsumption by the Central
Government of parastatal debt obligations. IDA's ongoing Public Expenditue Review (PER)
has the primary objective of assisting Government in its efforts to reassert fiscal control, and to
improve the composition and management of its expenditures. Being done collaboratively with a
government counterpart team, an immediate aim is to generate practical recommendations for the
1994/95 Annual Budget.
36.  Without substandal progress on parastatal reform, the medium- and longer-term prognosis
for the Kenyan economy remains bleak. In 1991, the Government announced its intention to
carry out a comprehensive parastatal reform program. Under the program, public enterprises
deemed to be vital to national seurity and those providing essential goods and services were
classified as strategic; all other public enterprises were classified as non-strategic. "Strategic"
enterprises are to be restructured with the objective of being made commercially viable, while
"non-strategic" parastatals are to be privatized. Progress to date in privatizing "non-strateg.
enterprises and restructuring "strategic" enterprises has been slow and needs to be acceleratr
37. Reducing the direct involvement of the Government in economic activity, reforming the
parastatal sector, the civil service and public expenditure in general, limiting Government



10
discretion, streamlining licensing requirements, and eliminating foreign exchange controls will
help to lessen corruption in Kenya. Other measures include the strict enforcement of agreed
conditionality, careful supervision implementation and raising the stakes for back-tracking.
38.  Actions Required to Promote Private Sector Development. IDA's recent economic and
sector work, including Conmtry Economic Memoranda (1992 and 1993) and the Private Sector
Development Strategy (1992, in collaboration with the IFC), indicate that a growth-oriented
strategy, relying on a potentially strong private sector, would serve Kenya well. The Private
Sector Development Strategy has identified several constraints to private sector development and
investment in Kenya. The main constraints include the destabilizing effects of macroeconomic
imbalances, excessive public sector involvement in the market place, and uncertainty arising from
the discretionary treatment of businesses by Government. These constraints ctit across all sectors.
39.  Another major impediment to private sector development is the fact that although Kenya's
physical infrastructure is relatively developed, it is inadequately maintained and inefficiently
operated. This is particularly noticeable in the transport sector, where sections of the highway
system need complete rehabilitation, and at Mombasa port, where efficiency is low. It is also
seen in the deteriorating physical infrastructure of Nairobi and other important commercial
centers, due to lack of resources and service delivery capac.ty. In energy, the problem is one of
inadequate investment which could become a binding constraint to natior' development if not
undertaken quickly and in the context of a restructured subsector. The rustructuring should
include the liberalization of petroleum prices and the economic pricing of electricity. Issues
related to cost recovery, the composition of expenditures, particularly inadequate allocations for
nonwage O&M, and procedures for allocating budgetary resources, are common to most
subsectors. Public sector, including parastatal, inefficiency is at the heart of many of these
problems. Therefore, the careful restructuring of public expenditures and enhanced financial
accountability of strategic state er.nerprises are crucial.
40. Strengthened Management of Environmental Degradation and Population Pressures.
Poverty and population pressures on limited land resources are the main contributors to
environmental degradation in Kenya. Depletion of forests and woodlands is a major cause of soil
erosion and land degradation, and lower water-holding capacity, a reduction of dry season water
resources, and the destruction of wildlife and natural habitats. Environmental problems are
particularly severe in the ASAL regions which are more susceptible to ecological damage
resulting from population pressures. Human encroachment is also exacerbating conflicts with
wildlife, particularly in dispersal areas around national parks where increased farming activities
are cutting off wildlife's migratory routes, and access to dry season water and pasture.
41. The Government has prepared a Development Policy and an environmental action plan for
the ASAL areas. These will feed into the development of the Government's NEAP, which is
expected to be completed by end-FY94. The success and impact of both initiatives will depend
entirely on strong Government commitment and the integral involvement of all affected ministries,
agencies, governmental and non-goverunental organizations, and local resource user groups.
42. Evidence form the 1989 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey points to a marked drop in
the fertility rate-from 7.7 in 1984 to 6.7 in 1989, and suggests that the demographic transition is
now on the way. The preliminary results from the 1993 survey art consistent with this
conclusion. However, Kenya's population will continue to grow rapidly because there are still
large numbers of women entering their childbearing years. Sustaining current efforts at
improving access to family planning services and at increasing school enrollment for girls is
essential.



11
43. Attention to Human Resource Issues is Crucial. There is a natural kinship among
employment creation, human resource development and poverty reduction. The employed and
unemployed need not only health and nutrition, but also information and skills that will enable
them to support and benefit from accelerated economic growth through outward-oriented private
sector development. The Government is taking measures: to reduce the rate of growth of the
education recurrent budget and introduce cost recovery at the university level; expand access to
education and increase retention at the primary and secondary levels; enhance the quality and
relevance of education and training, and strengthen sector management and planning. But these
actions are only a beginning.
44.  Ongoing efforts to improve the quality and relevance of primary, secondary and university
education should be broadened to include technical training. A further challenge now for the
education strategy is to move beyond enforcing crude quantity controls from the center, and
restructure key sectoral institutions and policies to: (a) create incentives for more efficient service
delivery in general; (b) shift public expenditure subsidies away from higher education and the
expansion of the teaching force, to improving access to quality basic education, especially in rural
areas; and (c) enhance public confidence in the educational effectiveness of time spent by children
in school, thus reducing the growing demand by households for private tutors to compensate for
shortcomings in the public school system.
45. The resurgence of old diseases such as malaria and the emergence and rapid spread of
AIDS require attention. Between 750,000 and one million Kenyans are now estimated to be HIV-
positive and around 2,500 new AIDS cases are diagnosed annually. By mid-1991, about 10,000
AIDS cases had been recorded. In addition, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are on the rise.
The der- lopment of prevention programs for STDs, including AIDS, should take place as a
matter of urgency. While the Government has mounted a concerted effort to increase public
awareness of AIDS, future interventions should seek to k ring about behavioral change.
46.  Separately, the medium-term objectives of health sector reform should be to: shift resources
from curative to efficient primary care; and clarify the respective roles of the private and public
sectors. Efforts to improve the orientation, access and quality of health care (and other social
serices) must come througn redirecting public expenditures and raising their efficiency.
47. The shift of emphasis from rapid expansion to quality and equity improvements must be
accompanied by a commensurate effort to build institutional capacity in the human resource
sectors. Sharper social targeting will impose new and more complex demands on Kenya's
institutional capacity for designing and implementing human resource policies and interventions.
And although the Government has a relatively good capacity for designing and implementing
surveys, there is a need to improve the processing and analysis of data. A permanent capability
should also be developed to monitor the impact of policies on the most vulnerable groups in
Kenya and, through regular feedback, to inform policy design.
48. Tarszeted Interventions Needed for the Poor. The Government needs to supplement its
growth-oriented policies with clearly defined initiatives to reduce poverty. In this context,
measures should be directed in part at increasing women's agricultural productivity and income.
The migration of men to the cities leaves many wvtnen with sole responsibility for sustaining their
families. These households are generally poorer than male-headed ones, and have less access to
land, credit and extension services. Efforts are underway to identify ways of assisting women,
reducing poverty among female-headed household, increasing agricultural productivity, and
improving nutrition. A primary focus is on reaching women throtigh agricultural extension.
However, greater attention should be placed also on expanding secondary school places for girls,
and improving community-based water supply schemes. Increases in women's incomes will also
have a direct bearing on attempts to reduce the population growth rate. Promoting skills training,



12
particularly in manufacturing, can also enhance opportunities for off-farm employment and
income enhancement. Findings and recormmendations emanating from IDA's ongoing Poverty
Assessment are expected to support efforts aimed at identifying groups that are particularly
vulnerable to poverty, analyze their plight, and design and implement appropriate corrective
measures.
Implemeoting the Country Assistace Strategy
49.  At the time of the Board's December 1992 discussion of the country assistance strategy, the
Bank was withholding the second tranche releases of the ASAO II, EDP and EDSAC because of
the Govermnent's poor macroeconomic management and failure to meet sector-specific conditions.
Calling for a resumption of tranche disbursements only if the country's macroeconomic
framework was back on track, the country assistance strategy specifically provided for a cutback
in the lending program by dropping adjustment lending and those investment projects which
would not be viable in such an environment. Consistent with this strategy, IDA approved in
FY93 only $62.7 million for three "core" projects (Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical
Assistance, Second Agricultural Sector Management, and Emergency Drought Recovery) and is
expected to commit only $21.8 million in FY94 (for the Micro- and Small Enterprise Training
atnd Technology Project). [In addition to these project approvals, IDA Reflows of $52.1 million
and $42.2 million were approved in FY93 and FY94, respectively.]
50. Future Operational Program. Subsequent to the Board's December 1992 discussion, five
short-term markers were established as critical to stabilizing the country's economy and
demonstrating the Government's commitment to reform in light of its unsatisfactory past
performance and policy back-tracking. These have now been met: (i) satisfactory implementation
of the Fund-monitored program agreed in May 1993; (ii) satisfying the macro-economic and
sector-specific conditions for release of the second tranches under the EDP and EDSAC; (iii)
agreement on a PFP and ESAF; (iii) the convening of a successful CG Meeting for Kenya; and
(v) the removal of maize movement controls. Now that the stabilization and reform programs are
beck on track, IDA would move back to a "base" lending program of $630 million in FY95-97,
with the important exception that any adjustment lending would only be considered if satisfactory
performance under the PFP is sustained through mid-1994. However, should the Government
falter in implementing the economic and reform agenda as set forth in the PFP or backtrack on
policy actions initiated during the past year, IDA would revert to a "core" lending program of not
more than $100 million per year. Moreover, for the Bank to consider adjustment operations in
the future, the Government needs to make progress on agreed sectoral reforms across-the-board,
demonstrating a strong commitment to much improved public sector management. Specifically,
this entails: (a) progress ir. implementing a strong and transparent parastatal reform program; (b)
commitment and initial steps toward a comprehensive civil service reform program; and (c)
improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures, especially a well-prioritized PIP. The
Government also needs to demonstrate commitment to private sector development by adopting
measures which improve macroecononic management, and the regulatory and incentive
framework.
51. To improve Kenya's neglected infrastructure, the FY95-97 lending program includes
investment projects for urban transport, highways, water supply and municipal infrastructure;
education, agricultural research, nutrition and STDS/AIDS project proposals focus on addressing
human resource development issues and/or targeting specific interventions for the most needy;
anotl *r project addresses enviromnental degradation and improvement of the quality of life in the
arid regions of Kenya; while an institutional development project would provide technical
assistance to the country's civil service reform effort. The translation of ongoing discussions in
the fields of energy, health and the environment into project investments depends upon progress



13
on the Kenyan side in completing ongoing preparatory work and/or resolving outstanding sector-
related policies and issues.
52.  Portfolio Implementation. As of December 31, 1993, the Bank Group had 26 projects
under implementation in Kenya, in the amount (less cancellations) of $967.3 million [investment
projects: $673.6 million; adjustment operations: $293.7 million], of which the undisbursed
amount totaled $494.2 million (investment projects: $429.9 million; adjustment operations: $64.3
million]. Forty-five loans and fifty-five credits have been fully disbursed in the amounts of
$928.4 million and $1,070.7 million, respectively (or, 100 loans and credits totaling $1,999.1
million).
53.  In early 1993, the Eastern Africa Department undertook a "Special Portfolio Review" in an
effort to clean up the department's portfolio through orderly closure of projects/components that
were no longer consistent with country and/or sector assistance strategies, to restructure others if
and where appropriate, and to identify any major implementation problems. One result of this
effort has been a net reduction of active projects from 31 at the beginning of FY93 to 26
currently; this number (after taking in consideration the addition of the Micro- and Small
Enterprise Training and Technology Project) is expected to be further reduced, with another four
(and possibly six) being closed by the end of FY94. Through the use of action plans, closer
project monitoring and intensive supervision follow-up by Bank staff with the concerned
implementing agencies, there has been a significant improvement since end-FY93 in reducing the
number of problem projects (i.e., "3" and "4"-rated): of the six active problem projects so rated
as of end-FY93, all have since been upgraded to "2". There currently is only one project rated
"3" (and none rated "4').
54. Insufficient counterpart funding continues to delay timely implementation of project
components, which is also reflected in low disbursement ratios. A specific goal of the ongoing
PER is to rationalize the existing portfolio of government projects (including IDA operations) as
well as establish an improved system for future project selection and implementation. The PER is
expected to have an immediate impact in FY95 on resolving the counterpart funding problem
which has continuously plagued the Kenyan portfolio. Project implementation has also been
hampered by procurement delays and weak project management. A major agenda item for the
Kenya Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) scheduled for June in Nairobi is a review
of all active projects, identifying and terminating in a timely manner, all nonpriority components.
In the meantime, close coordination during the past year between staff from LOAAF and the
Nairobi Office with staff from the individual project implementing agencies, Ministry of Finance
and CBK who are involved in the processing of disbursement applications has resulted in faster as
well as more frequent drawdowns from the Special Accounts and IDA Credits. To improve
project implementation, especially of new projects, IDA's dialogue with the Government will
center on generic problems (e.g., those related to project management, procurement, auditing),
and include efforts to reduce reliance on the public sector and increase private sector involvement.
55.  Creditworthiness and Expos. At the end of 1992, IBRD and IDA held 10.3 and 22.2
percent, respectively, of Kenya's stock of total debt outstanding and disbursed. If the FY95-97
"base" lending program is realized starting FY95, by 1996 IBRD's share of total debt is expected
to fall to 4.4 percent and IDA's share to rise to 31.8 percent. Correspondingly, net transfers
from IBRD would move from negative $158 million in 1992 to negative $112 million in 1996; the
respective figures for IDA are positive $75 million and positive $186 million. The debt service
ratio for the preferred creditor category, which includes IBRD/IDA, the IMF, the African
Development Bank and the European Investment Bank, was 14.4 percent in 1992, and is projected
to be 8.2 percent in 1996. IBRD and IDA's combined share in this debt service is expected to
remain at about 55 percent. Kenya's debt service ratio is expected to fall from 27.2 percent



14
(representing debt service paid) in 1992 to 25.6 perceht in 1996. IDA will account for a slightly
lower share of total commitments (including grants) to Kenya in 1996 (40 percent) than in 1992
(44 percent). IDA lending will continue to be interdependent with assistance from other official
creditors, particularly under the auspices of the SPA. At the same tine, the trend towards a
greater share of bilateral grants and concessionary funds (as opposed to loans on commercial
terms) in official development assistance to Kenya is expected to continue.
56.  Apart from the ongoing dialogue between the Government and IDA, two other factors
impact positively on the Bank Group's exposure and risks. One, no IBRD lending has taken
place since 1986, when the debt service ratio began to exceed 20 percent; instead, highly
concessionary IDA credits have been used, and these have been supplemented by IDA reflows,
which have helped to offset the debt service burden of previous IBRD 14oans. Two, the bulk of
additional Bank Group lending to Kenya is based on the implementation of measures that will
strengthen growth and balance of payments viability.
57. IFC and MIGA Activities. To date, IFC has invested directly in 17 enterprises in the
industrial, financial and tourism sectors. IFC has also broadened its involvement with another
four enterprises in the private sector in Kenya through the African Enterprise Fund (AEF),
established in its Nairobi office in 1989; the AEF allows IFC to make loan and equity investments
in smaller projects than those through IFC's mainline business. Total commitments to date
exceed $160 million, and IFC's own-account portfolio (including undisbursed balances) is in
excess of $30 million. Recent approvals and investments currently being processed are expected
to add a fuirther $7 million in 1994. In addition, the African Project Development Facility, based
in Nairobi, continues to find a demand for its services in assisting entrepreneuiL to prepare project
proposals and obtain financing. IFC's Foreign Invesument Advisory Services (FIAS) is providing
assistance to the Ministry of Finance and the Investment Promotion Center on investment
incentives.
58. With the positive economic measures taken in Kenya over the last year, IFC anticipates an
increased demand for its services in the next few years. In addition to further support for private
sector initiatives, this could also encompass the rehabilitation and privatization of some parastatal
companies. Preliminary discussions concerning a possible advisory assignment for IFC in one
such case have already begun.
59. Kenya has been a full member of MIGA since November 1988. Although three
preliminary applications have been registered, a necessary precondition for securing guarartees,
no guarantees have been issued to date.
60. Cooperation with Other Institutions. Effective donor coordination will remain an
important element of the country assistance strategy. At the November 1991 CG, all participants
agreed that new commitments should only be made after the Government had demonstrated its
commitment to decisive action to correct macroeconomic imbalances; to rationalize public
enterprises and improve their financial discipline, accountability and transparency; to launch a
substantial civil service reform effort; to improve the efficiency of public expenditure as a vehicle
for providing basic economic and social infrastructure to the people of Kenya; and to provide an
environment which is consistently supportive of private investment and initiative. Bilateral donors
also wish to see progress on political reforms which would reinforce the benefits of economic
structural change. This position was reiterated in subsequently convened informal donor meetings
in July 1992, March 1993 and May 1993. The result of these meetings and regular consultation
between donors, e.g., through monthly meetings of donor representatives in Nairobi, was
reflected in the consensus among donors at the November 1993 CG that while recent efforts of
the Goverunent to reestablish an appropriate macroeconomic framework and initiate structural
reforms were warmly welcomed, the translation of new commitments in 1994 of around $850



15
million depended on progress in implemnenting the economic reform agenda outlined in the PFP as
well as strong positive steps in addressing governance and corruption issues. Donors will be kept
informed of progress through their regular monthly meetings in Nairobi, and through an informal
donors meeting which is tentatively scheduled in July 1994. The Bank and the IMF in particular
have worked closely together with the Kenyan authorities in getting the macro-economic program
back on track and restarting the reform process.
E. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
61.  The experience of the past few years shows that the pace of reform in Kenya has been
insufficient for the desired rate of economic growth, employment creation and poverty reduction.
Kenya's economic development and the availability of external finance from both public and
private sources depend critically on the Government's ability to move aggressively and decisively
to create an enviroment that is conducive to private sector development. The constraining factor
is Government commitment, not implementation capacity. Recent efforts by the Government to
get the macroeconomic program back on track must now be followed by a track record of
sustained econonic performance and of demonstrated commitment, through actions, to implement
further reform. The country assistance strategy focuses on the maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic framework, improved governance and economic management, and satisfactory
progress in implementing an agreed reform agenda. Benchmarks on all these fronts have been
defined, on which progress can be evaluated and an appropriate level of IDA lending support can
be justified.
62.  Clearly, there are a number of risks associated with this strategy. First, the extent of the
Govermnent's continued commitment to the reform agenda set forth in the PFP is still to be
tested; furthermore, there always looms the possibility of reform back-tracking (as experienced in
the past) and/or a breakdown in the country dialogue. However, recent economic performance
and reform initiatives have been encouraging. Moreover, the proposed country strategy has built-
in flexibility to deal with such developments, in that the Bank's lending program would be
downsized to "core" investments only. A second risk is that parastatal and civil service reforms
initially could make unemployment worse before it declines. The impact of such could be
addressed through appropriate phasing and safety nets (in which a number of donors have
expressed an interest and willingness to help fund). Of course, the sooner the Government
implements growth-oriented reforms, the quicker the employment benefits are likely to accrue.
Third, there is the risk of Kenya's access to quick-disbursing balance of payments support being
reduced, even if the required progress is made on economic and social reforms. Accordingly, the
country assistance strategy has been designed to significantly reduce Kenya's dependence on such
funds. A fourth risk is that envirownentally unsustainable economic development will proceed
headlong in the absence of a consensus on appropriate strategies to protect Kenya's diverse
ecosystems and natural resources for the benefit of current and future generations. This could
foreclose options for more appropriate and sustainable development, threaten long-term economic
stability, lead to further degradation of the resource base, and increase the severity of
desertification and droughts. The country assistance strategy seeks to forestall such occurrences
through the country dialogue, and by supporting efforts to alleviate population pressures and
develop the ASAL areas as part of the core country assistance program.
63. The Board is invited to consider the benefits and risks associated with this country
assistance strategy.



16
PART 11
THE PROJECT
Sector Background
64. The Kenyan economy now faces a formidable employment challenge as a result of slow
economic growth cobmined with the rapid expansion of population. The economic growth, which
was hailed as a success story in Sub-Saharan Africa for many years, was not sustained in the
1980s, and more recently declined to below the population growth rate. The poor economic
performance in recent years is attributed mainly to policy failures rather than strucural
impediments or lack of resources. Meanwhile, recent provisional data suggest that the population
of 24 million is growing at about 3 percent, still among the highest growth rates in the world.
The total labor force is expected to grow at an average rate of about 4.1 percent per annum
between 1991 to 2000 and over 6 percent in urban areas.
65. There is little doubt that if present trends continue, the economy will be unable to absorb
the estimated 500,000 new entrants per year to the labor market with a considerable backlog of
unemployed and underemployed workers. While most new entrants, who have longer years of
formal education, would be aspiring to employment outside smallholder agriculture, especially in
the modem sector, it is clearly not possible. For example, if non-smallholding employment were
to grow at its trend growth rate, then the new jobs created would be able to absorb only about a
quarter of new labor market entrants between 1992 and the year 2000. Given the sponge effect of
the informal sector in employment, a large part of the labor force will inevitably end up falling
within the informal sector. The challenge therefore becomes not only to facilitate employment in
this sector but to create the conditions for graduation into the formal sector and ensure quality
jobs which are sustainable.
66. The above facts have serious implications for poverty. In urban areas, for example,
unemployment increased to 23 percent in 1991 from 16 percent in 1986 and the average real wage
today is only 45 percent of its level in 1980. Considering the persistent high dependency ratio,
which is the highest in the world, this may imply that a larger proportion of the population lives
at or below the poverty line.
67. To reduce unemployment and poverty, rapid growth of the economy is the most urgent
need. At the same time, adequate policies to harness population growth should be given a high
priority for a long term effect. Given the relatively low elasticity of employment to production in
the economy, Kenya must not only raise the growth rate of GDP but also adopt a labor intensive
growth path. To achieve this goal, a comprehensive strategy should be pursued to promote larger
labor absorption in the private sector and to enhance the transition of the informal sector into the
formal sector. This strategy is well reflected in Kenyan Government policy statements.
68. The Government recognizes the importance of the informal sector in employment creation,
income distribution, and rural-urban balance as spelled out in several key sectoral policy papers.
Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, Economic Management for Renewed Growth highlighted informal
and small-scale enterprises as a primary vehicle for social and economic development. The
importance of informal sector enterprises was further emphasized in the Sixth National
Development Plan. 1989-93 and Development and Employment in Kenya: A Strategy for the
Transformation of the Economy (the "Ndegwa Report") prepared by the Presidential Committee
on Employment. Sessional Paper No. 2 of 1992, Small Enterprise and Jua Kali Development in
Kenya sets a comprehensive policy framework which would: (a) provide an enabling environment
through eliminating licensing, tax, and other regulatory restrictions on informal sector activities;



17
(b) facilitate the transition of micro and small scale enterprises into medium size enterprises; (c)
increase access to credit for the informal sector; and (d) improve access to information on market
and appropriate technologies. It recommended that the Government act as a catalyst and
facilitator to promote the informal sector, leaving a major role for private sect,or intervention.
While these policies are basically sound, their implementation lags behind.
69. The informal sector is an ambiguous and comprehensive term embracing a wide range of
activities by small and micro-enterprises. This heterogeneity raises a serious definitional question.
While the informal sector can be distinguished by the avoidance of government regulations,
illegality of activities, amount of assets, or energy use etc., using size of establishment measured
by number of employees as a criterion appears useful to identify the beneficiaries of the proposed
project. A working definition is therefore adopted to cover micro- and small enterprises defined
as 1-19 and 20-49 employees, respectively. Further, the term "Jua Kali' is used colloquially to
refer to enterprises specializing in the manufacture of products and providing productive services,
rather than traders per se.
70. The 1993 CEM estimated that informal employment in 1991 comprised 598,513 workers in
350,066 establishments. The informal sector constitutes 98 percent of all businesses in the
country and contnbutes 37 percent of total urban employment, about 1.6 million in 1991. The
informal sector recently has made a substantial contribution to the expansion of employment in
Kenya. Its employment grew at 14 percent per annum in the last three years as corapared to 2.3
percent in the modem wage sector. Urban centers accounted for nearly two thirds of total
employment, while Nairobi makes up 25 percent of all employment in the sector. About 60% of
informal operators are involved in trade with the remainder divided equally between
manufacturing and other services. Manulfacturing, however, is the most pmmising sector in the
creation of stable employment considering its share of paid employees and its high employment
growth rate.
71. The informal sector is closely tied to other parts of the economy. For example, it provides
the rural and urban lower income groups with consumer goods and services. It also provides
domestic inputs and services used by medium and large-scale firms, besides being a customer for
many goods produced in the modem sector. These two sectors are expected to have closer
linkages in the future through sub-contracting. Therefore, the growth of the informal sector will
contribute to the enhancement of the whole economy.
72. The recent Bank Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS) report showed that the
private sector, as a whole, suffers from the Government's policy failures -lack of macroeconomic
discipline, poor and uneven enforcement of laws and excessive regulations. The informal swector
shares these obstacles, and is further constrained by: lack of worksite security and basic
infrastructure; limited access to formal credit; low skill levels, and inability to acquire information
on marketing and technology opportmities. These factors are again mutually reinforcing. For
example, insecurity of worksites restricts access to credit, leads to local authorities' harassment,
and creates disincentives for developing and investing in the worksites, thereby hampering
improvements in technology and productivity.
73.  In order to realize the potental for employment creation in the informal sector, these
obstacles should be addressed. Yet, the private sector alone may fail to provide the required
services related to skills training, technology advancement, and infrastructure provision due to the
following factors: insufficient information, the inability of small enterprises to provide training
and to develop technology and infrastructure, economies of scale, etc.. Public sector intervention
is therefore required and justified in these areas to correct market failures. To this end, the
Govermnent intends to remove the obstacles identified above and to formulate and implement



18
appropriate policies for the informal sector, and facilitate investments in related areas as part of a
commitment to private sector development.
Project Objectives and Outcomes
74.  As summarized in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy and Action Plan, the
Government intends to pursue its long-term objectives concerning the informal sector as part of
the private sector economy. Within this framework, the proposed project seeks to assist the
Government in: (a) developing and implementing policies liberalizing the entrepreneurial
environment and establishing a National Training Strategy; (b) providing access to skills training
and appropriate technology for micro- and small enterprises and facilitating technological
innovation in the sector; and, (c) improving the operational and managerial capacity of institutions
and programs that support the sector's development. The project would use private sector
contractors, trL.ning and research institutions, Jua Kali Federation/Associations and employers as
the primary agents to promote and implement the proposed project. Expected key outcomes by
project's end include: (i) training of some 60,000 informal sector ranufacturers; (ii) provision of
infrastructure for about 4,000 entrepreneurs; (iii) exposure of some 80,000 Jua Kali to marketing
and production technology information; and (iv) an improved enabling policy environment.
Project Description
75.  Micro- and Small Enterprise Trining Fund (US$11.5 million) would enhance skill
upgrading and technology development for mnicro- and small enterprises by providing incentives to
diversify and improve public and private sector training capacity, including enterprise-based
training. About 50 percent of the entrepreneurs and employees in the micro- and small scale
manufacturing sector would benefit from the services provided under the Project Training Fund.
By combining two approaches to funding training - a voucher progam and a contract training
scheme -- the training system would be reoriented from a supply-driven to a demand-driven
approach. The voucher program would place training vouchers directly in the hands of micro-
and small entrepeneurs and operators, introducing consumer choice to purchase the training which
they require from a range of public and private sector providers. The contract training scheme
would encourage public and private training providers to compete on a matching grant basis for
financing to improve the quality and r elevance of training which they offer to informal sector
clients.
76.  Technology and Pilot Infrastructure Development (US$5.6 million) would (a) stimulate
information exchange and innovation in product development through assistance to a technology
information clearing function, technology study tours, and marketing exhibitions; and a small pilot
program of adaptive technology research grants, awarded on a competitive basis, to promote the
indigenous capacity for the research, design, and commercialization of new products and
production technologies for the informal sector. These programs would be implemented by the
Jua Kali Federation/Associations and other privately contracted organizations; and (b) supply Jua
Kalis with secure worksites and access to appropriate infrastructure, e.g. power, water, sanitation,
refuse collection and roads. Development would take place on an experimental/pilot basis on sites
in Kisumu and Mombasa where land has already been secured for Jua Kali from local authorities.
77.  Institutional Strengthening (US$2.1 million) would help develop a new partnership
between the public and private sector guaranteeing the full participation for Jua Kali entrepreneurs
and workers (as individuals and through their associations) in training and technology policy and
program decisions and subsequent implementation - by establishing (a) a staff development
program for MRTT&T (based upon an organizational review and staff redeployment plan) and Jua
Kali Federation/Associations; and (b) a policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation system to make
the training system more quality conscious, responsive to the needs of the export sector, and



19
financially sustainable. This sub-component would assist in the development of a long-term
National Training Strategy more responsive to productive sector training needs, based on (i) an
assessment of the Industrial Training Levy scheme, (ii) an evaluation of the trade test and
certification system, and (iii) a policy review process for skills training. The National Training
Strategy would be crucial for project sustainability and longer term sectoral development.
Project Financing
78. Total project cost is US$24.2 million, including US$1.7 for project implementation and
US$ 3.3 for contingencies. The IDA Credit of US$21.83 million (SDR 15.7 million) would
cover about 90 percent of total project cost or 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 85
percent of the local cost net of duties and taxes. The Government and Jua Kali
Federation/Associations contribution of US$2.4 million equivalent would finance about 10 percent
of the total project cost. About US$ 0.5 million equivalent, or 2 percent of total project cost,
would be contributed by JKA and private individuals towards the construction (materials and
labor) of storage and distribution facilities at the Jua Kali development locations in Mombasa and
Kisumu. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursements schedule, are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in
Kenya are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. More detailed information is provided in
the Staff Appraisal Report No. 12275-KE.
Project lmplementation
79.  Organ_ation and Management. The institutional arrangements for implementing the
project are designed to strengthen and develop a government-private sector partnership between
the MRfT&T and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations, the chief executing agents for the project.
In the early years of the project, while the staff and management capacity of these institutions is
being developed through a comprehensive staff development program, the main project activities
(training fund management, infrastructure and technological information program development,
policy analysis, and program monitoring and evaluation) would be implemented with assistance
from private sector consultant contract services.
80. The lead agency for the project would be the MRTT&T. Day to day project coordination
would be the responsibility of the Directorate of Applied Technology (DAT), MRTT&T under the
direct management of the Permanent Secretary, MRTT&T (the chief accounting officer of the
Ministry) and guided by a multi-sector (public and private) Project Steering Committee (PSC)
chaired by the Permanent Secretary with representation from the Jua Kali Federation and
Associations. The Training Fund would primarily be managed by the Training and Gender Unit
(TGU) of the Directorate of Applied Technology (DAT), MRTT&T. Tnis unit would coordinate
the voucher program brokering (match-making between trainees and skill-upgrading pr- i';ers)
and sub-project appraisal of the contract training proposals from the public and privat seetor
providers with the assistance of training contract support services and the local Jua Kai.
Associations. The Technology sub-component would also be implemented on a contract basis and
managed by the Center for Research and Technology (CRT) and the Directorate of Research
Development (DRD). The pilot infrastructure component would be implemented by engineering
and management contract consultants under the management of the Applied Technology Unit
(ATU-infrastructure and worksite).
81. The Planning and Development Unit (PDU), MRTT&T would oversee contract
implementation of the staff development (capacity building of the Ministry and Federation/
Association) programs, manage the contractors undertaking the various policy studies (assessment
of the Training Levy Scheme and National Trade Testing Program) and National Training



20
Strategy development, performance monitoring of policy and program implementation, and the
project imnpact evaluation. This activity would include the development of a data base on the
informal sector coordinating with overlapping data bases from the National Economic Survey and
the Household Monitoring Program. At the grassroots enterprise level, the project activities
would be implemented directly by the Jua Kali Federation/Associations with support from the
relevant MRTT&T units (described above) and related private sector consultant contract services.
It is envisaged that the Federation/Associations would be capable of implementing and sustaining
the training, technology and infrastructure programs upon cmpletion of the project. See Annex
4 of the SAR for implemnentation organizational Charts of the key executing bodies, MRTT&T
and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations (national and district levels).
Project Sustnabiility
82. Long-term sustainability of the project investments, following project completion, should be
enhanced by fostering an enabling policy environment and institutional development proposed
under the project. By removing or simplifying various barriers to entry, operation and exit, e.g.,
registration, licensing, building standards, and other outdated business regulatory laws, informal
sector growth is possible. The Vagrancy, Nuisance and Chiefs Authority Acts are already under
review by various Task Forces. Policies, which especially affect the broader economy has been
addressed through the PFP (Policy Framework Paper) and may continue to be addressed in future
private sector reform and financial sector adjustment operations. As for the patent system, the
Industrial Property Act was already enacted in December, 1989 to make it more relevant to the
Jua Kali sector by introducing utility models, a type of "petty patents".
83.  By focusing on the Jua Kali Associations and the MRTT&T, as well as management and
planning skills of entrepreneurs, one significant outcome would be enhancement of the capacity to
sustain policy and project interventions. Cost recovery measures through an infrastructure
revolving fund managed by the Associations should contribute to sustainability of physical
investments. With the inclusion of partal cost recovery through training fees, a modernized
Industrial Training Levy, and the development of a long-term National Training Strategy the
financial sustainability of training investments would also be strengthened. Both policy analysis
capacity and the implementation of the Project Trainig Fund would facilitate project
sustainability and longer term sectoral development. For instance, the Project Training Fund
would develop financing mechanisms (i.e., a Jua Kali training fund) as well as experience and
lessons to be incorporated in the modernization of the Industrial Training Levy scheme and thus
enable project sustainability. This process is likely to involve consolidation and privatization of
training, facilitating a larger role for the private sector and enterprises in skills training,
especially regarding training facilities and cost sharing, and improving mechanisms linking the
Government, industry and workers.
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement and linkage with Sector Polcy
84. Since 1966, IDA's Kenya portfolio in Human Resources comprised six Education Projects,
four of which involved expansion of vocational and technical education in the formal system.
Informal sector training was never the main focus, although it derived some benefits from these
investments. The main focus of these investments was pre-employment training through the
establishment of new technical schools and institutes. Although vocational investments have been
high, they have not been part of a broader strategy to address such important issues as relevance,
cost efficiency, self-financing and sustainability. This has resulted in a mismatch between training
supply and skill demand, especially by infonnal sector operators, underutilization of training
capacity and an overall weak financial position of the vocational education and technical training
(VET) sector. Other countries also faced similar constraints in their training systems which has
led to the preparation of a new Bank VET policy paper and which calls for more training in the



21
private sector, measures to improve the responsiveness and efficiency of public training, and the
development of a longer-term strategy for the evolution of the Government's role in training.
These themes are taken up in the Bank's Country Economic Memorandum on Increasing
Employment Growth in Kenya (1993) and are addressed under the proposed project. The CEM
puts a particular emphasis on the capability and flexibility of the training system which can
respond to the skill needs of employers, including the informal sector workers. To this end, more
involvement of employers is suggested in determining the content and provision of training and
share in the costs. Its specific recommendations are completely aligned with this project.
85.  IDA has provided two credits relevant to the proposed infrastructure component: Nairobi
Site and Service Project (Credit 543-KE) and Small-Scale Industry Project (Credit 750-KE).
Implementation of the first Credit suffered from disputes over building and infrastructure
standards, i.e., too rigid by-laws which caused long delays. Cost recovery fell short of its
objectives. The second Credit faced more severe problems. Kenya Industrial Estates failed to
implement the project due to the lack of appropriate staff. They failed to collect bad debts and
establish proper cooperation with its field operators. Thus, only 50% of the Credit was utilized;
only one of the eight sites suggested for development was used, feas:ility studies on these sites
being rejected by the Bank. To ensure that the defects of the above mentioned Credits not be
repeated, the proposed infrastructure component would be experimental in terms of the methoa
for construction and ownership. It would be implemented on a pilot basis, ensuring proper
supervision and evaluation. In addition, cost recovery measures through the infrastructure
revolving fund managed by the Associations with oversight from the MRTT&T should contribute
to the sustainability of physical investments. Finally, evidence of steps towards amending the
Registration of Business Names Act, Trade Licensing Act, Local Government Adoptive By-Laws
(building standards), and the Electric Power Act, as well as the Vagrancy, Nuisance, and Chief's
Authority Acts, would be conditions of disbursement on the civil works and building materials
procurement categories of the infrastructure component.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
86. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Kenya focuses on poverty reduction through
accelerated growth and employment generation. This strategy would entail bolder implementation
of an appropriate policy agenda given the prospects of large-scale unemployment and substantial
increases in the numbers of Kenyans living in absolute poverty. Within this Bank/lDA
framework of poverty reduction, the current dialogue with the GOK also reinforces the
Govermnent's plans to promote training and employment opportunities in the informal sector,
especially for the poor and marginal segments of society. In tius context, the proposed project
responds directly to the Ndegwa report recommendation for enhancing technology transfer and
strengthening skills upgrading in the informal sector as a means to improve the overall efficiency
and productivity of Jua Kali operations at the enterprise level. The "demand driven" approach,
linking in-service/on-the-job training for existing entrepreneurs and apprentices more closely to
employment opportunities and improved productivity, is a central feature of the proposed project.
This approach also corresponds to the new Bank Policy on Vocational and Technical Education.
In fact, the proposed project would provide an early opportunity to implement this new policy.
Last but not least, this project corresponds directly to the Bank's strategy for the Africa region,
which emphasizes the dynamism and importance the informal sector plays in African economies.
It aims at developing the informal sector by promoting access to technology related training and
institutional support within the framework of a more favorable enabling policy environment.



22
Actions and Main Assurances
87.  The Government fulfilled the following conditions prior to negotiations: (a) prepared a
Draft Letter of Informal Sector Policy and Time-bound Action Plan to improve the enabling
environment; (b) prepared a detailed Draft Project Implementation Plan and Procedures Manual,
including specific organizational arrangements, actions (activities and procedures), responsible
agents and annual budget estimates, at least for the first year's implementation; (c) prepared draft
terms of reference for external auditors for the FY 93 Training Levy Funds; (d) prepared terms of
reference for prospective implementation contracts; (e) prepared draft terms of reference for trade
test and individual levy studies and policy review process for skills training; and (f) presented
evidences of bonafide membership (registration list) in the Jua Klai Association, clear individual
or Association ownership (copies of letter of allotment purchase receipt and leasehold title) of
sites (Kisumu and Mombasa) designated for infrastructure provision under the project. As
conditions of Board presentation: (a) the Letter of Informal Sector Policy(LISP) and Action Plan
has been signed; (b) the Project Inplementation Plan and Procedures Manual has been agreed
upon; (c) the external auditor for the Training Levy Funds has been advertized; and (d) draft
tender documents for implementation contracts and a detailed procurement schedule has been
prepared.
88. The following assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations: (a) an
assessment of the National Industrial Training Levy system which now finances employee training
through an enterprise wage-based taxation scheme, and the trade testing and certification system
would be undertaken and a detailed Action Plan for modernizing these, including amendment of
relevant acts, if necessary, would be completed by August 30, 1995. A policy review process for
skills training and a draft National Training Strategy would be prepared by December 31, 1995;
(b) an organizational review of MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation would be completed by
December 31, 1994. A subsequent staff redeployment and development required for successful
project implementation would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1995; (c) annual audits of special
account and SOEs as well as of two financial accounts for the infrastructure component by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be carried out. All audited accounts would be
made available to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year; (d) MRTT&T would
prepare semi-annual progress reports and forward them to the Bank by April, 30 and October 31
of each year; (e) MRTT&T would prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the
implementation experience and project outcomes for submission to IDA not later than six months
after the closing date; (f) Beginning in 1994, MRTT&T would submit to the Bank, for review and
comment, no later than April 30 of each year, a statement of project achievements and actual
expenditures for the on-going year, and a work plan and proposed expenditure for the coming
year; and (g) MRTT&T would carry out with IDA and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations, a
tripartite Mid-Term review (based upon agreed policy and program performance indicators) in
1998.
89. As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government would have: (a) fully staffed the
relevant MRTT&T implementing units required to assist in contract management; (b) obtained
Cabinet authorization of the Project Training FUPd; and (c) employed external auditors and
completed the FY 93 Training Levy Funds. It would provide the completed audited report with
recommended remedies of the PY 93 Training Levy Funds.
90. As a condition of disbursement on the civil works and building materials procurement
categories of the infrastructure component, the GOK would submit the following draft bills to
Parliament by July 1994 according to the LISP and Action Plan: the Registration of Business
Names Act, the Trade Licensing Act, the Local Government Adoptive By-Laws (building
standards), and the Electric Power Act, as well as the Vagrancy, Nuisance, and Chief's Authority
Acts.



23
Environment Assessment
91.  The proiect is classified as category C, with no adverse impact on the environment.
Program Objectives Categories
92.  The project would increase government financing of the training sector through the review
and reform of the pattern of resource mobilization and allocation. The project would make
provision for increasing women's representation in manufacturing through skills training and
technology development suitable for upgrading their enterprises or bringing them into the sector.
MRTT&T would use private sector contractors, training and research institutions, Jua Kali
Federation and Associations and employers as the primary agents to promote and implement thi
project. The enhancement of the informal sector should also have a positive effect on poverty
reduction by reducing constraints to employment promotion and income enhancement in the
micro- and small enterprise (informal) sector in Kenya.
Benefits
93.  The project would assist the Government to initiate a process of development leading to:
(a) improved skills and an expanded informal sector - including female-owned manufacturing
enterprises - with increased employment opportunities and earnings through product quality
enhancement and diversification, secure worksite and improved infrastructitve for about 4,000 Jua
Kali entrepreneurs, better marketing and increased access to technology choice; (b) a down-sized
and more focused Ministry of Research, Technical Training, and Technology capable of policy
analysis, setting training standards, facilitating technical and managerial training and related
technology information and innovation; (c) the progressive empowerment of Jua Kali
entrepreneurs and artisans (about 400 Associations and 80,000 members) which would enhance
their participation in the economic development process; and (d) gradual inclusion (graduation) of
the informal sector into the modern sector by establishing a legal and contractual basis for its
unfettered development.
Risks
94.  The possible risks relate to: (a) the ability of the Government to specify and implement
training and private sector development policies to enable informal sector entrepreneurs to operate
more effectively; (b) administrative and over-sight capacity of MRTT&T and Jua Kali
Federation/Associations, including decision-making about Training Fund allocation and
management; (c) beneficiary response exemplified by their willingness to avail vouchers and to
recover user costs for training, technology information and infrastructure; and (d) the capacity to
sustain policy and project interventions. To overcome these risks, the project would be
conditioned on a policy letter and time-bound action plan ensuring key enabling policies for the
Jua Kali sector. Project Training Fund replenishments would be allocated on an annual basis,
once agreed and acceptable levels of performance in administration, award allocation, and
utilization criteria are met. A monitoring process (including annual and mid-term reviews) would
facilitate the implementation of this comprehensive training and technology development program,
including critical changes in the legal, regulatory, and policy framework. A final impact
evaluation is also financed under the project to draw broader lessons for future development of
the sector.



24
Recommendation
95.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1994



25
SCHEDULE A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Project Cost Suary CUSS milon)
Project Component & Sub-Component                Foreign    Local    Total
FE      Total
Base
Costs
1.  Training Fund                                                  2.2       9.3      11.5      19         55
Voucher System                                                1.2       4.9       6.1       1         29
Training Contract Scheme                                      1.0       4.4       5.4       19        26
H.  Technology Delopuent and Pilot n_rasbwtr r                     33_       2.4        5.6      57        27
Technology Information and Innovation Program                 1.6       1.2       2.8       57        13
Infrastructure Development                                    1.6       1.2       2.8       57        14
m. InttorAl DevelOpMent                                            1.4       0.7        2.1      67        10
Staff Development                                             _.5       0.2       0.9      71          3
Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.9       0.5        1.4     64          7
TV.    ementat                                                     0.7       1.0        1.7      41         8
MRTT&T and lua Kali Association                               0.7       1.0        1.7     41          8
Baseline Costs                                                7.5      13.4      20.9      36        100.0
Physical Contngencies                                         0.3       0.7        1.0      30         5
Price Contingencies                                           0.8       1.5       2.3       35        11
Total Project Costs                                           8.6       15.6      24.2      36        116
* net of taxes and duties
* Figures may not add up due to rounding.



26
SCHEDULE A
Page 2 of 2
Project F ng Pla by Category of Goods and Services
(In US$ million)
ImT                 Govt./JKA       IDA         Total      IDA %
INESTMENT                                   _
A. Sites and Services             0.50         2,28         2.78         82
B. Equipment
Vehicles                       0.00          0.12        0.12         100
Information Technology         0.00          0.07        0.07         100
Machinery                      0.00          0.13        0.13         100
Equipment                      0.00          0.05        0.05         100
C. Training
Vouchers (Management)          0.30          1.90        2.20         86
Vouchers (Technical Skills)    0.30          3.70        4.00         92
Training Contracts             0.30          5.10        5.40         94
Foreign                        0.00          0.22        0.22         100
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign                        0.00          0.74        0.74         100
. Loca                         0.20          2.41        2.61         92
E. Applied Research
Publications                   0.00          0.10        0.10         100
Research Overheads             0.10          0.30        0.40         75
Honoraria                      0.00          0.34        0.34         100
INCREM. OPERATING COSIS            _
F. Maintenance
Buildings                      0.01          0.02        0.03         67
Equipment & Funiture           0.00          0.03        0.03         100
Other                          0.05          0.10        0.15         67
G. Materials and Supplies
Office Supplies                0.09          0.09        0.18         50
Materials Supplies             0.06          0.06        0.12         50
H. Travel
Foreign                        0.00          0.38        0.38         100
Local                          0.05          0.00        0.05          0
Per Diem                       0.11          0.69        0.80         87
I. Salaries
Salaries                       0.03          0.00        0.03          0
Total Base Costs               2.10          18.83       20.93        90
Contingencies                  0.30          3.00        3.30         90
Total Project Costs            2.40         21.83        24.23        90



27
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
US$o00o
(Amount of IDA rimuncing is in brackets)
Project Element        Procurement Method         Other            NBF            Total
ICB             LCB
I. workm
1.1 Construction                          2.01                                         2.01
(-)   ~(2.01)          -               )(.1
2. Goods
2.1 Construction Materials    1.00                                                     1.00
l                        (1.00)       (-)          (_)             (-).0()        (1.0%     I
2.2 Equipme                   0.27                                       -             0.27
(0.27)       (-)          (-)             (-)           (0.27)
2.3 Vehicles                  0.13                                                     0.13
(0.13)                                    0 )   -)(       .13)
3. Co. lt. ls
3.1 Training                                           13.71             -             13.71
( )   ( )        ~~~(12.71                (      1)(2.71
3.2 Technical Assistn                                   3.88               .           3.88
)   (_)         ~~~~(3.15)        -             (3.15)
3.3 Sties & Research                                    0.81                           0.81
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(O  .,61). ,. .t61
4.  iscella_e
4.1 O&M. Vehicles,                                      0.24                           0.24
Equipmenlt, Buildings      (-)        (-)          (0.1)-)                        (0.18)
4.2 Salaries, TrAvel &                                  1.66                           1.66
Per Diem                    (-)        (-)          (1.46)           (             (1.46)
4.3 Mateials & Supplies                                 0.47                           0.47
(-4        (*)         (0.27)            (-)          (0.27)
S. PPF                            -          -           (0.43)                         (0.43)
TOTAL                     1.40        2.01         20.77            2_4.18
(IA0)      (2.01)       (18.37)        .-               (I.
Note: Figures in p t       are the reective amounts    cd by  A
NBF - Not Bank Fianced



28
SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 2
Disbursement Categories and Perentages
Amount of Credit
Category                          Allocated               % of Expenditures
US$ Million               to be fianced
I. Civil Works/Construction             2.5            100% of foreign expenditure
Materials                                            82% of local expenditure
2. Equipment and                        0.3            100% of foreign expenditure
Fumiture
3. Vehicles                             0.1            100% of foreign expditue
4. Technical Assistance                 3.5            100% of fordign expenditure
90% of local expenditure
5. Traiing and Studies                 13.1            100% of foreign exediture
95% of local expenditure
6. Incremental Recurrent                1.9            100% of foreign expenditure
Expenditures (salaries)
7. Project Preparation Facility         0.4            Amount due pursuant to
section 2.05 (c) of the
.___________    Credt Agreement
Total Credit Amount                 21.8
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
________ ____  ____(UJS million)____ _                               Us$_Mull"
I DA F1scal Year    1994195   1995196   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   00101
Amual                1.0       2.6       3.9        4.2       3.6-      3.6       2.9
Cumulative           1.0       3.6       7.5       11.7      15.3      18.9      21.8



29
SCHEDULE C
Page I of 1
TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
Time Taken to Prepare:             30 months
Task Manager:                      Nat J. Colletta
Team Members:                      Yang-Ro Yoon (Human Resources Economist)
Pat Walker (Implementation Specialist)
Bettina Moll-Druecker (Training and Education Specialist)
Stephano Migliorisi (PSD Specialist)
Lem Miravalles (Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist)
Charles Byrahuanga (Statistician/Economist)
James Kamunge (Educator)
First IDA Mission:                February 1991
Appraisal Mission:                June 1993
Post-Appraisal Mission:           October 1993
Negotiations:                     January 1994
Planned Date of Effectiveness:    July 1994
Relevant PCRs:                     CR 1107-KE
CR 750-KE
Relevant PPARs:                    CR 93-KE
CR 185-KE
CR 797-KE
CR 543-KE



30
SCHEDULE E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA                   Page I of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDffS
(as of December 30 1993)
Forty-five (45) Loans and fifty five (55) credits fully disbur  928.41  1070.70
Of whieh SECALs, SALs amd Program Loans/Credits: at
Cr.0990-0    1980   Struct. Adj. Credit                         55.00
Cr.1276-0    1983   Struct. Adj. Credit II                      70.00
Cr.A021-0    1986   Agriculture Sector                          40.00
Cr.1717-0    1986   Agriculture Sector                          20.00
Cr.A036-0    1988   Industrial Sector Operation                  10.00
Cr. 1927-0    1988   Industrial Sector Operation                102.00
Cr.1927-1    1988   Industrial Sector Operation                 53.70
Cr.2049-0    1989   Financial Sector Operation                  120.00
Cr.2049-1    1990   Financial Sector Operation                  44.00
Cr.2049-2    1991    Financl Sect. Oper.                        67.30
Ln.2190-0    1983   Structural Adj. Credit U       60.90
Cr.F0170     1984   Second Highway Sector                       40.00        2.79
Cr.16730     1986   Sixth Education                             37.50       12.44
Cr.17580     1987   Animal Health Services                       15.00       9.44
Cr.18200     1987   Second Railway                              28.00        4.84
Cr. 18490    1988   Nat. Agriculture Research                   19.60        8.61
Cr. 19040    1988   Population II                               12.20        8.00
Cr. 19730    1989   GeOthermal Development                      40.70        9.21
Cr. 19740    1989   Rural Services Design                       20.80       10.71
Cr.20580     1990   TA                                           5.00        4.15
Cr.20600     1990   Third Nairobi Water Suppl. Proj             64.80       35.25
Cr.20620     1990   Coffee 1                                    46.80       28.37
Cr.21 110    1990   Population IV                               35.00       31.14
Cr.21470     1990   TA-DFI Res/Exp. Prom                         6.00        3.52
Cr.21970 b/   1991   Export Development                         100.00       2.32
Cr.21980     1991   Forestry Development                         19.90      16.39
Cr.21990     1991    Agr. Natl. Ext. n                          24.90       19.18
Cr.22040 b/   1991    Agric. Sector Adjust. 11                  41.52        6.26
Cr.22950 b/   1992   Education Sect. Adj. Cr.                   100.00      50.44
Cr.23090     1992   Universities                                55.00       51.35
Cr.23100     1992   Health Rehabilitation                       31.00       26.18
Cr.23330     1992   Mombasa Water 1I Eng.                       43.20       38.76
Cr.23340     1992   Wildlife Services Pr.                       60.50       47.84
Cr.22951 b/   1993   Education Sector Adj. Cr.                  52.14        5.30
Cr.24400     1993   Parastatal Reform TA                        23.32       22.24
Cr.24450     1993   Agric. Sect. Mngt. 1                         19.40      18.53
Cr.24600     1993   Drought Recovery                            20.00       17.66
Ln.24090     1984   Second Highway Sector           5.00                     3.31
Total                        933.41      2032.98        23
of which repaid             560.50        39.09
Total held by Bank & IDA     372.91      1993.89
Amount sold    11.74
of which repaid 11.74
Total undisbursed                                     494.23
a/ Approved after k- YSU 
bl SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit



31                                           SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA
(as of December 30, 1993)
1993              AEF-Future Hotel     Restaurants & Hotels              0.50         0.00         0.50
1991              AEF-MALAA            Agric. Wholesaule&Retail          0.53         0.16         0.69
1994              AEF-SAWA FLORA   Agric. & Live-stock Products          0.32         0.16         0.48
1992              AEF-Wood Complex   Mfg. of Wood & Cork Product         0.40         0.00         0.40
1982              Bambuti Cement       Cement Lime & Plaster             4.43         0.00         4.43
1984, 1980        DFCK                 DFC, Mfg Pupi Paper & Paperboar    5.07        1.31         6.38
1982              DTK                  Merchant Banks                    0.00         0.80         0.80
1986              EBP                  Restaurants and Hotcls            3.67         0.00         3.67
1982             IPS (K)               Venture Capital Companies         0.00         0.55         0.55
1987, 1987, 1993   IPS (K)-ALLPACK     Venture Capial Companies          0.00         2.36         2.36
1990             IPS(K)-FRIGOKEN                                         0.00         0.06        0.06
1991             IPS(K)-NOVASKINS                                        0.00         0.14        0.14
1989             IPS(K)-PREM FOOD                                        0.00         0.11        0.11
1989             IPS(K)-PREM REFR                                        0.00         0.14        0.14
1988, 1992        IPS(K)-UKULIMA                                         0.00         0.06         0.06
1981             KDFC                  Sm. & Med. Scale Enterpris        S.00         0.00         S.00
1967,1968, 1973    Kenya Hot           Restaurants and Hotels            5.16         0.72         5.88
992              LIK                                                     0.00         0.03         0.03
1984                                   Tanneries & Leather FinishIng     2.12         0.60         2.72
1986              Madhupaper           Mfg. Pulp Paper & Paperboard     37.16         1.97        39.13
1986              Oil Crop             Mfg. Vegetables & Animal Oil      9.65         2.14        11.79
1970, 1974,       Pan African          Mfg. Pulp Paper & Paperboard     40.74         6.27        47.01
1977, 1979,
1981, 1988, 1990
1976, 1985        Rivatex              Spinning, Weaving & Finshing      8.16         3.35        11.51
1977              SMSIE - KE           Small & Med. Scale Enterprises    2.00         0.00         2.00
1983              TETRA PAK            Mfg. Connrs & Boxes               2.17         0.37         2.54
1972              TPS (Kenya)          Tourism Services                  2.42         0.05         2.47
Total Gross Commitments                              129.50        21.35       150.85
Less: repayments, canellations,
exchangc adjustments, wrteoffs,
terminations and sales                            110.22       11.70       121.92
Total Commitments now held by IFC                     19.28         9.65       28.93
Total Undisbursed                                      0.72         0.78         1.50
Totd Outstanding IFC                                  18.56         8.87       27.43
01-24-94
ken2edl.wkl



32
SCHEDULE D
Page 3 of 3
DISBURSEMENT ISSUES
1.    The portfolio of disbursing projects for Kenya at the end of December 1993 comprised
one loan, one special facility and 25 credits for a total commitment of US$967.3 million, with
US$494.2 million undisbursed. This included 22 investment projects for a total of US$673.6
million committed and US$429.9 million undisbursed. FY93 disbursements of US$70.6 million
on the investment portfolio improved over FY92's level of US$57.2 million, and compared
favorably to the average over the last five years of US$63.7 million. This corresponds to a
disbursement factor (ratio of disbursements to cumulative net undisbursed balance at the beginning
of the fiscal year) of 13.8 percent for FY93.
2.    The portfolio's modest disbursement perfornance is due in part to its relatively young age
structure (average of 4.3 years). However, as suggested by the increasing number of problem
projects (26 percent at the time of the FY93 ARRP), there are also other issues which have
undermined progress. These include: (a) inadequate budget and counterpart fund availability and
release of funds already approved for project activities, particularly for operational expenses; (b)
delays with procurement; (c) weakness in project management.
3.    To overcome these problems the Department undertook a Special Portfolio review which
resulted in a reduction in the portfolio, elimination of non-performing projects and components,
and restructuring of several projects. Counterpart funding is being tackled under a Public
Expenditure Review intended to rationalize the existing portfolio of Government projects.
Additional measures include provision of assistance by the Resident Mission in overcoming
bottlenecks with disbursements and procurement. A CPPR scheduled for mid-1994 will deepen
these actions.



33
SCHEDULE E
Annex 1
KENYA
Selected Indicators of Portfolio Perfonnance and Management
Indicator                         E_          .  .24 I/
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation                     31      32      31       26
Average Implementation Period (years)                    4.5     4.4     4.5      4.6
Percent of Projects Rated 3" or *4"
Development Objectives                                  19      12      13        8 *
OvMl Status                                             25      15      22       19 *
Average R ai&gs
Development Objectives                                 1.71    1.59    1.68     1.58
Overall Status                                         2.00    2.06    2.16     2.08
Disbursement Rado (%) 2/                                19.0    16.5    13.8      8.6
Memorandum Item: % Completed Projects Rated Unsatisfactory               44
Portfolio Manaeent
Supervision Resources (total sws)                       386.0   505.3  501.0   239.1
Average Supervision sws/prcject                         12.5    15.8    16.2      9.2
Supervision Resources by Location (in %)
Percent Headquarters                                   79.2    68.3   59.6      63.1
Percent Resident Mission                               20.7    31.7   40.4      36.8
Supervision Resources by Rating Category
(staffweeks/project)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                  13.5    16.1    16.7      9.5
Projects rated 3 or 4                                  9.5    14.6    14.4       7.8
Memorandum item: date of next CPPR                                              6/94
11 As of December 31, 1993.
2/ Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio
at the beginning of the year: investment projects only.
* Note: as of End-February 1994, only 1 of the 26 projects (or 4 percent) was rated "3" or "4".



34
SCHEl,JLE E
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
Bank Group Fact Sheet
IBRD/IDA Lending Program, FY91 - 97
Past                    Current             Planned
CateOorv                  FY91    FY92    FY93               FY94             FY9S-FY97
Commitments (US$m)                      287.2   38.9    114.8                   0              (300-6308
(of which IDA Reflows)                   (.)    (49.2)   (52.1)               (42.2)
Sector (%)
Economic Mana ement                                                                              10
Public Sector Management          35        -         -                  -
Poverty Reduction & Human Res. Dev.                                                              30
Human Resources                     -      55       45                 100
Private Sector Development                                                                       30
Industry and Fuiance              23       14       21                   -
Environmentally Sustainable Dev.                                                                 30
Agriculture                      42       18       34
Infrtucture                        -      13        -
TOTAL                          100     100       100                100                   100
Lending Instrument (%)
Adjustment 11                      84       44       45                 66
Specific Inv.Loans & Others      __6       56       55                 34                    100
TOTAL                          100      100      100                 100                   100
Disbursements (US$m)                     247     123       168                113     P
Adjustment Credits               103       65       45                 24
IDA Reflows                       70        -       52                 48
Specific Inv. Loans & Others      74       58       71                 41
Principal Repayments (US$m)               92      93       96                  49
Inerest Payments (US$m)                   77      71        68                 31     Y
i1 Includes IDA Reflows.
Y' As of December 31, 1993.



35
SCHEDULE E
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
IFC PROGRAM, FY91-FY93
Category              FY91        FY92         FY93
IFC Approvals (US$m)               0.83        0.44         0.55
Sector (%)
HotelsRestauants                             7.0         91.0
Agribusiness                     83.0         -           9.0
Capital Markets                  17.0        2.0
tg-       91.0          -
Total                         100.0       100.0       100.0
Investment (%)
Loans                           64.0        91.0        91.0
Equity                           36.0        9.0         9.0
Total                         100.0       100.0       100.0



36
SCHEDULE E
Annex 3
Page 1 o 2
Kenya: Priority Poverty Indicators
Mew SNd
253,0       13S-0   S        ,o
Uik Of            jM          YM            n       SAtha          Lau-       ble"f.fir
Indicaet                                                        d"te        fat        f(w _                 u             gwp
POVERTY
Upper povaty line                         l.c.. .. ..         ..           ..           ..
Hedoit idx                                %ofp..                 ..          ..          ...
Lowe~ povety line                         lol   .                 ..          ..                       .
Head       index                          %ofpp.                 ..                ..
GNPpercaa                                    USS                100         230         340          350         350        1.610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilledwbuww                              lcalr.                ..          ..          ..low
UnkiDed nmtl waes                             *                   *-          *          136
Rur t ofurde                                  '                   ..          ..          ....
Cotauaer pice index                        987-100               14          26          174
Lower inoome                                 *                   ...
Food                                         '                   ..          .          12.
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Publka e              se oda ewvicm       %*fGDP                  ..          ..          ..
Pir2sy                                 %atdalrppai               54          95          94           70         113         100
Primary                                                         69          103         96           76         122         106
Fale                                         *                  40          87          92           60         106          98
Mortality
Inhrtmortlity                          am  liwbil              112          92          67          104          70          40
Under 5 mortalY                              *.                               ..        105         177          9           53
M en.                                   %       up                            _         60           40          73          70
DP*                                                              ..                     72           35          81          74
Cblldmalnuine (undw-5)
Lufe,opedanc                                                                                                       36
Total                                      yew                  47           52          59          51          63          67
FemalMsal                                   awio               1.09        1.08        1.07        1.06        0.95         1.08
Tol fatiltyru                           birt SpawAm              8.0         81          6.5         6.4          3.7         3.5
MoanalaitY ra                          100.000 li b               ..          ..          .._...
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rate                       Primary enrollment
-                                       (bo      * c(Uw) b)lo
6+.                                       250                                          120' .
a                                       200                                         100
2                                                                                      40         A
O                                                                                    20
_0 
0   iid60s   fmid 70o       ins                mid 609    mid 7Oa      an                   mid 60s    mid 70s     nat
-lAYW inoxn



37
SCHEDULE E
Annex 3
Kenya: Resource Ad Expenditure                                Page 2 of 2
Megt S~!qVTnvemP     W
isi.        13*  . r                   _
UNt,of   _                    jwt    d.-   -Sdk'                             hugh.
lad ieab3?                        -~~~~~~~twd                             (we)        AJie         ga.         ema
tl'MA'4N SRESOURCES
poquladon (mve-9911)                     dwmkt    )          9.749      13.741      25.006     488S932   3.127.265     773.803
.Age, dependency 9U )                       aio               1.06        1.12        1.10        0.97        0.66        0.71
Urb#an                                   %o(pop.               S.6        129         24.0        28.7        40.1        53.9
PopualOatio rowth                        sm                    3.2         3.7         3.4         3.0         1.9         1.7
LVrbaa                                                        6.0         7.1         5.1         5.0         5.2         3.1
Labor fomr (15-64)                        tuiian                 4           6          10         204       1,448         302
ARrtcu% of labo fa                                            6          83          ..
Snu                                          *                   5           6           ..
falc                                                            43          42          40          37          33          32
female per 100 maiS
Urban                                    mtber                  ..          ..          ...
Rur                                         '
NATURAL RESOURCES
Ales                                    thou. sq. kma580                   Sa         580      23,066      38.828      23.990
Density                                pop.pernqkm             17.0       24.0        40.0        20.0        77.0        31.0
AgriculUtalanrt                         % of  dream           70.2        70.1        71.1        51.0        47.4        41.8
Change inm a    1cul a1 land              data %               0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
AjieurA, land under i i                     %                    _           _.                    5.5        13.7        12.6
Forals and woodland                      ho L . km              28          26          24       6.651       9.19t       5.396
DdeoeAZioa (net)                           dswa%               40.7       .0.S         48.S
INCOME
Household ;imow
Shre oftop 20%of1bouadiltd              %ofia                              60..
Share ofbo   fba 4ofbmso%k                  *                               9
shae  of bda2 2%ofbboa                                                      3           _           _           .
LXPENDITURE
Food                                     %ofODP                  ..       28.3        27.4           _
Stapls                                                          ..        12.2        11.3 
Metfis. milkOak. ^M,   _P                                                  7.3         6.7          _
C'eralhapots                          tkMiiMark@toin           117          86         ISS       7.138      36.00S       44.418
Food aid in oeme                             *                               2          62       2,677       6.669        4.047
Food poduclnp- -pits                    19794S-100             113         103         104          94         122         101
Fold                                                                                     - kV      14.5       47.5         94.2
ShareoflnGculbzremODP                    %oGP                 32.4        30.         2;'.9       29.2        28.7
Housing                                  %OCGDP                  ..         8.1                                  ..
Avea  houSehold Size                 p. pAM       ld             _                       ,
Ufban                                                                       5           -           -           -
Ftx.dinvalemt: bouing                    %ofGDP                  ..         3.5         3.1
Fual Npowr                               %ofODP                  _          1.7         1.7          _
Enrgyoosusuption prapita                kgofoleqsiv            110         15S         100         100         350        1,249
Household with elicity
Urean                                 %ofbouseb                 ..
Rural 
Trauport and   _      _nw m              %ofGDP * -              ..         5.6         3.6
Ftxwd investmet  tWNPOd 4,0111be..                                         2.7          1.7          ..
Total Mad lengt                           tho. km                ..          _           ..
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Healti
Asce to bealti cae                        %ofPopq                _           ..          _.
Population perpby                          p                 13,22       7,900       10,133
Population pernuse m1928                                                  1077.
Population perhospital bed                                                 t o S00     623        1.328       1,04S        509
A    to saier wow                            fpop                          17.0          _         36.7        70.6
i                                          *                   _.       100.0     -oo o          74.3        79.3
Rural                                       '_                             4.0          _         24.2        62.8
Olv-  hydyrnlioe thsspy(under-)           %(cm                                          s o 80      33          32
Educatio
Gros enromen atio
Secondary                            %ofdbo*l.epp4               4          13          23          18          44          56
Female                                      *                   2           9          19          14          37
Pupl4ea cher io:prmy                   pupils per  e            34          33          31          39          39          25
Pupil4escher utio: seoonday                  '                  19          25          17           ..         20
PupiareadcingVsaide4                     %of     t               ..         97          77          69           _
Repeat rat: pimmy                      %oftetalamuild                        5
Illiterac                             %ofp*(Spls+)              S1           _          31          51          39
Female                               %orftl (ap 1s+)            _           -          42          62          52
Newsaper civulation                     per Au.pop.              7          10           11          5 
Source: World Bank tIn_uato   Eooic Dqru       Ap  1993



38
SCHEDULE E
Annex 4
ENYA - KEY INDICATQS                                    Page  1 of  3
.~~ Pret. .-.
- -------- Attal--------------           +---------Projected-- ------
+ ...... ;-........ +-i-------------------------  - Prl  -------------- -
Irdicator                ll9   1990    1991    1992    1993    19P        1995    1996
NatiaL aomn
CDP at osrrut mrket prices)
Grams dstic prot
Agricutitw 1/                      30.7    29.1    27.4    26.8
Iitryt 1/                          18.9   19.1    20.1    19.2
Services 1/                        50.4    51.7    52.5    54.0
Total cpor  tian                    82.7    80.9      0.    84.7    78.7    E0.5    79.3    ?B.7
Grs dmsstic itrwsmw                 24.7    24.3    21.3    16.8    18.1    18.9   19.6    20.2
G    avermwit                       5.8     6.5     5.5      7.0     4.8     4.7     4.6     4.5
Private                            18.9    17.8   15.8       9.8    13.3    14.2    15.0    15.7
E3qorts (GNFS)                       23.1    26.2    27.4    26.8    29.6    30.6    31.4    31.7
Imprts (GMS)                        30.4    31.4    2.7    28.4    26.3    30.1    30.4    30.7
Grss dmstic savirn                   17.3    19.1    20.0    15.3    21.3    19.5    2D.?    21.3
Gros retiwut swvirgs                 14.4    15.8    16.1    12.9   19.0    17.9    18.7    19.6
Grss d1ostic proct                 t2.6  8469.5  8M.8  8010.?  718.9  M9.8   836.5  9736.8
(M  at arret prices)
Gross rtiaut proict per             360.0   370.0   340.0   310.0
capita M,  AttalMI r
Real arnei grawth rates
(2, caLculate fra 1987 prices)
Gross dmrstic prodat at              4.72    4.3     1.42    0.4X    0.23    3.02    5.02    5.3
rurket prices
Gross dmestic i e                   3.3X    3.2X    4.0X    2.1X   -0.2       3.23    5.5X    5.3
Reat amat per cgpita
gradth rates (%, catclated fran
ssr prices)
Gross dmistic proict at             0.9      0.4    -2.2    -3.1    -3.4   -0.6       1.3      1.5
nariket prices
Total cuiptiau                       1.2    -1.2     0.0      3.1    -9.4     1.7     0.6      0.8
Private corsaptian                   2.0    -2.6    -1.4      1.7   -4.0      1.6    -2.6      0.2



39
SCHEDULE E
Annex 4
KE3A - MY IIDICATtS                                 Page 2 of 3
4-.ktn --        t.        --------        - Projct------
4-..............-...................  fret . ...... . .    .....
Irdicaw                1969   1990   1991    19Q    1993   19w    1995    19M
9tarle of pWints
Eqs (ORS)                       1913.9   1T.1  2Z50.3  2150.7  223.8  23.9  2W.7  3088.1
Irdwcise f.ob.                 921.9  1000.6    A.4   94.1  1002.0  1106.9  185.0  159.6
Inparts 2OSS3.  2t59.1  2429.5  233.4  2313  2479.3  2712.6  2s61.6
tierdw6s f.ob.                 2155.8  223.0  1977.7  18lZ  1755.1  2Z48.4  245.?  2751.0
Resoure blarw                    614.2  -442.0  -179.2  -177.7  32.5   44.6   95.    103.5
Net *axrC trrwsfe                350.7  371.6  351.7   253   237.6  25.9   31.2  299.5
cI,uhdir' official curret
Orit autt buti                  -SII4  -47.2  -2S.2  -115.0   33.8    7L1  1O6.8  109.5
Caftw official atal grmts)
Not pri%i? foeipt dirwt          101.1   58.4   39.9    0.0   47.7   65.3    7.0   92.0
it
Law-tenmn     (not)              472.1  391.1  16$.0   27.1  12L8    45.0   47.6   84.2
Official                       344.0  207.8  196.9   49.8   24.8  291.1  17L9   193.7
PriWtt 13.1   15.3  -32.9  -22.7  -152.0  -149.1  -131.3  -109.5
OUw caitat (not, incufirs        131.4  225.5  417.2  59%.9  -43.7   31.9  -161.5  -66.1
wrxs  d ania nas)
ow3  in r _                     -109.3  -237.9  -357.8  -507.0   59.5  -307.3  -70.9  -219.6
Nmwwvm itm
Resoure  eLm( of                  -7.4   -5.2   -2.2   -2.2    3.3    0.5    1.1    1.1
CDP at arrt amurlt pric)
Reel anvl  gra    tes
(1967 Pries)
Nmddse Ws    (f.o.b)              -3.0   10.2   -3.5   -1.9    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2
NadwWi  ilpots (c.i.f.)            2.4   16.6  -15.4   -3.6   -2.9   23.5    7.0    6.9
Puhfc ffI,w (2 of
IDP at arat Ihlgot priCm) 2V
Cwtra    t ReMu  &    Ut          2S.9    A.8   25.6    2.4       .4   23.8   31.7   34.5
cllt rt  rui       Epmtws         30.6   31.2   2L4    32.6        7    27.2   27.2   26.7
&dpt Deficit (-)lrct. Wt           4.5    -6.6   -2.8   -9.2   -5.3   -3.3   -2.6   -2.2
Priny Deficit (-) or Suptts        5.8    5.6    3.5    3.1    2.3    1.1    0.          0.5



40                                     SCHEDULE E
Annex 4
IYA - MY INDICATM                                   Page 3 of 3
-                                .A. - -  -- Project----
-..  Pret------------------ -                             --
lrdicat                159    1990   1991   1992    19       1991    15    199
I*/P (at ctrent nuaet prices)     28.2   29.7   31.5   37.4
Groah of Pe cX)                   12.9    0.1    19.6   39.0
Prie sector ariit gruth/         64.9   59.6   62.4   69.4
total crst rowth CM)
Prices (1937 a 100)
Mrwdtse qan   prio ilrai          93.7   97.2   99.3   95.9
NwdwusM  inprt pice frd          100.8   91.7   93.7   92.4
lwdwise tern of trat rtisx        97.9  106.0  106.0  104.9
Resl edwu  rate                   8.3    8.0    79.9   8S.9
CLSAW)
ReaLt frest  tes                   0.4    0.2   -2.8  -10.3
Coawnrprica irda 3/               13.5   15.7   19.6    7.3
(X grOAth rate)
GOP deflatwr    X gwth rate)       84     9.4   11.4   16.3
U  Perito  of 0P at factr cmt.
2  Historf a ffscat dfta is in fiscal  ar bqrlmrs Juy 1 of yanr duo, projectia  we in caladr _w
begfmrIngh 1993.
3/ Averape aIlt Iairc  Cawiur Price (reiseb IrxK emctuing ret.



41                                            SCHEDULE E
Annex 5
KE0ttA - IY EUOSM l\DICATS
........................ ............................................. ... ... _..... ....... .... ..... . ..._. ... 
.............AMtl----- - 4ES             til --------- roect-.-....
Irdicalr              M19      1990    19WI    1992    1993    1994    1995    19K
.......................... ............................................................. ........................................... 
Total dbt   st"r aid            5697.8  6947.3  69;9.5  6366.0  6375.1  710.4  6L.6  62.5
disbrd (00) (Ub
Net dia'shmnts CLu)             495.1   717.7  -10.8   -35.0        9.1    33.3  -119.8  -101.1
Total det semvice (1)           697.1   770.4   708.7   587.0   484.2   689.3   804.3    MS
Det wd dt savice frdicato
M1DAGS                         295.3   311.6   310.0   295.1   278.5   280.8   248.1   2Z.3
lDi0P                          68.6     2.0      5.1    71.5      2.6    86.1    78.1    70.7
DSm                             36.1    34.6    31.4    27.2    21.2    27.3    3.6       3.6
cGemfuss /DO                    35.1    34.4    38.8    42.7    48.1    49.0    55.6    62.5
&IDA espa    frdicators (X)
I  1OA DS/pbtic Os             35.0    37.5    35.1    53.7    30.3    30.3    22.5    22.4
refered aeitor 0S/bic           61.7    58.5    50.2    73.8    46.6    42.3    35.0    37.4
DS
IU&lM AOV                       8.2      8.2     7.9     8.1      7.4     6.4      5.2     4.5
IiR  fpafotfo ds               49.9    42.4    36.4    3t.8    25,S    2.5    16.0    12.0
IFC (US"
Loas                            0.0      0.0     0.5      0.4     0.5
Wty ar qfity                     0.3     0.1     0.2      0.0     0.0



42
SCHEDULE
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of December 31, 1993)
Disbursement Lag
-(USS Million)-           Relative to
(Less Canellations)     Apraisa1        Last ARPP Ratings
Fiscal                                         Undis-   Projection    Developmenl Overall
Credit No. Year Puroseank    IDA                         bursed      (5)        Objectives   Objectives
Forty-five (45) Loans and fifty-five   928.41   1070.70
(55) credits fuUy disbursed.
Ln.24090  1984 Second Highway Sector     5.00              3.31       2.8
SF 01700  1984 Second Highway Soctor             40.00     2.79       2.8           2             2
Cr.16730  1986 Sixth Education                   37.50    12.44       6.1            1            2
Cr.17580  1987 Animl Health Services             15.00     9.44      56.7           3             3
Cr.18200  1987 Second Railway                    28.00     4.84       10.5          3             3
Cr.18490  1988 Nat. Agriculture Reseach          19.60     8.61      41.5           2             2
Cr.19040  1988 Population m                       12.20    8.00      57.7           2             2
Cr.19730  1989 Geothermal Development            40.70     9.21      13.4           2             2
Cr.19740  1989 Rural Services Design             20.80    10.71      50.6           3             3
Cr.20580  1990 TA                                 5.00     4.15      76.6           2             2
Cr.20600  1990 Nairobi Water Suppl.111           64.80    35.25      51.7           3             3
Cr.20620  1990 Coffee 11                         46.80    28.37      (20.8)         2             2
Cr.21110  1990 Population IV                     35.00    31.14      55.1           2             2
Cr.21470  1990 TA-DFI Res/Exp. Prom               6.00     3.52      58 4           2             2
Cr.21970  1991 Export Development               100.00     2.32      76.0           2             2
Cr.21980  1991 Forestry Development              19.90    16.39      (1.2)          2             3
Cr.21990  1991  Agr. Nad. Ext. 11                24.90    19.18      26.1           2             2
Cr.22040  1991  Agric. Sector Adjust. n          41.52     6.26       0.0           2             3
Cr.22950  1992 Education Sect. Adj. Ct.          100.00    S0.44     46.9           2             2
Cr.23090  I992 Universities                      55.00    51.35      60.1            1            1
Cr.23100  1992 Health Rebilitation               31.00    26.18      50.4           2             2
Cr.23330  1992 Mombasa Water 11 Eng.             43.20    38.76      80.3            1            2
Cr.23340  1992 Wildlifo Services Pr.             60.50    47.84     (99.7)          2             2
Cr.22951  1993 Education Sector Adi- Cr.         52.14     5.30      46.9           2             2
Cr.24400  1993 Parastatal Reform TA              23.32    22.24      100.0          2             2
Cr.24450  1993 Agric. Sect. M ngt. I             19.40    18.53      100.0          2             2
Cr.246WO  1993 Drought Recovery                  20.00    17.66       0.0            1            1
Total                  933.41   2032.98   494.23
of which repaid       560.50     39.09
Total hold by Bank & IDA  372.91   1993.89
Amount sold    11.74
of which repaid 11.74
Total undisbursed                        494.23



43
SCHEDUL6 E
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of December 30, 1993)
1993              AEF-Fuhtre Hotel     Restaurants & Hotel               0.50         0.00           0.50
1991              AEF-MALAA            Agric. Wholesale & Retail         0.53         0.16           0.69
1994              AEF-SAWA FLORA   Agric. & Live-stok Products           0.32         0.16           0.48
1992              AEF-Wood Complex   Mfg. of Wood & Cork Products        0.40         0.00           0.40
1982              Bamburi Cement       Cement Lime & Plaster             4.43         0.00           4.43
1984, 1980        DFCK                 DFC, Mfg Pupl Paper & Paperboar    5.07        1.31           6.38
1982              DTK                  Merchant Banks                    0.00         0.80           0.80
1986              EBP                  Restaurants and Hotes             3.67         0.00           3.67
1982             IfPS (K)              Venture Capital Companies         0.00         0.55           0.55
1987, 1987, 1993   IPS (K)-ALLPACK     Venture Capital Companies         0.00         2.36           2.36
1990             IPS(K)-FRIGOKEN                                         0.00         0.06           0.06
1991              IPS(K)-NOVASKINS                                       0.00         0.14           0.14
1989              IPS(K)-PREM FOOD                                       0.00         0.11           0.11
1989             IPS(K)-PREM REFR                                        0.00         0.14           0.14
1988, 1992       IPS(K)-UKULIMA                                          0.00         0.06           0.06
1981             KDFC                  Sm. & Med. Scale Enterpises       S.00         0.00           5.00
1967,1968, 1973    Kenya Hotel         Restaurants and Hotels            5.16         0.72           5.88
1992              LIK                                                    0.00         0.03           0.03
1984                                   Tannries & Leather Finishing      2.12         0.60            2.72
1986             Madhupaper            Mfg. Pulp Paper & Paperboard     37.16         1.97           39.13
1986             Ol Crop               Mfg. Vegetables & Animal Oil      9.65         2.14           11.79
1970. 1974,       Pan African          Mfg. Pulp Paper & Paperabrd      40.74         6.27           47.01
1977, 1979,
1981, 1988, 1990
1976. 1985        Rivatex              Spinning. Weaving & Fnshng        8.16         3.35           II.S5
1977              SMSIE - KE           SmaaU & Med. Scale Enterprises    2.00         0.00           2.00
1983             TETRA PAK             Mfg. Containes & Boxes            2.17         0.37           2.54
1972             TPS (Kenya)           Toursm Services                   2.42         0.05           2.47
Total Gross Commitmes                                129.50        21.35          150.85
Lss: repayments, cancaKons,
exhange adjustmens, writeoffs.
terminations and sales                            110.22       11.70          121.92
Total Conunitments now held by IFC                    19.28         9.65          28.93
Total Undisbursed                                      0.72         0.78            I.S0
Total Outanding IFC                                   18.56         8.87          27.43



S U D A N 
'/           9                         ''z'"'K E N YA
'                                Fso ,                     ..,, E  T  H   I 0   P  I A
sA7  -'$ \._._  
N'..                               
TURKANA                                                                   I:                   MANOErA        I
S spr,SO  *
,  l    T  W                    ~~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~~MARSAS g   r-
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Y  '.'t  ''''  t\\1                     (t'~~~E A    R N.           f   AJ R
U G A N D A  5  x  g   .   \    g               .         X          \ r                 I ~~~~SOMALIA
0g                                                                                     POtOT  /
,q GOAf-.-                             SAMEURU
f X QMavAt > ;  r                                                                                         4/ i
GR~~~~~~~~.
/       .*\                    Mm                               T   E  R  N
UGANDA                                                    EA   TERN                                WA.JNA
MePL,l'iA                                                   01  J
NA ] Tx '             N NA1N
ci-.r  r,~ O                                                                                                   SOMALIA  \ V    XI
a rrrA 4 N g ' i   A    L   L       E
WE."" POV00' WE S  OOTi
LVA ,,m,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 \>T~V Ki
tetrrrro  altr^rx     < A ~~~f R I C Ak'\f   v_               \                    JF*                     f 
M"ARAL VovIIE                                T__
4,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CitiesA OW to'X^-nt     " ,
^;^S^r                \J                         \w-.>        ^ . .i    _EW~~~N       _Tmwk roaf
.LEntLoVEE   , 0  so , 120   160                                                   t  w  ai  
o~~~~~ ~                                                                                       ~~~~~ ~~~~~ <4.  rr, ImlbrnDm bowoclas_
Ag,sAN ).  .r s sm ,. U6A



