                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26230




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-25960)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        KENYA

                                        FOR A

                         MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING
                                          AND
                              TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (MSETTP)




                                      June 24, 2003




Finance and Private Sector Unit
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = KES
                                  1 KES = US$ 0.001348
                                   US$ 1 = KES 74.15

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 June 24   2003

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAs                  Allocation Agents
BDS                  Business Development Service
CISO                 Confederation of Informal Sector Organization
DATOs                District Applied Technology Officers
DCA                  Development credit Agreement
DMSED                Department of Micro and Small Enterprise Development
GOK                  Government of Kenya
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Agency
JKF                  Ua Kali Federation
KUSCO                Kenya Union of Savings Credit Cooperatives
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                  Management Information System
MFI                  Micro Finance Institution
MLHRD                Ministry of Labor and Human Resource Development
MSE                  Micro and Small Enterprises
MSETT                Small Enterprise Training and Technology
NATTET               National Association for Technology Transfer
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
PCO                  Project Coordination Office
PSR                  Project Status Report
QAG                  Quality Assistant Group
SACCOs               Savings and Credit Cooperatives
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TB                   Training Beneficiaries
TPs                  Training Providers
TORs                 Terms of References


                          Vice President:   Calisto E. Madavo
                       Country Director     Makhtar Diop
                        Sector Manager      Demba Ba
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Ivan Rossignol

                                            KENYA
 MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 26

Project ID: P001353                                                      Project Name: MICRO & SMALL ENTERP
Team Leader: Ivan Rossignol                                              TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 25, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MICRO & SMALL ENTERP                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-25960
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (58%); General industry and trade sector (25%);
                            Central government administration (17%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development
                            (P); Gender (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/20/1992                                        Effective: 05/25/1994              07/31/1998
   Appraisal:    05/25/1993                                            MTR: 01/01/1999
    Approval:    04/05/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MLHRD
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             E. Jaycox
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Jack Maas
Team Leader at ICR:             Ivan Rossignol                                 Nat Colleta
ICR Primary Author:             Vyjayanti Desai and David
                                Phillips


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990's, there was growing interest by the Government of Kenya to respond more effectively to
the increasing problem of unemployment. In the Kenya Government's 1992 Sessional Paper, `small
enterprise and jua kali development in Kenya' elevated the micro and small enterprise (MSE) sector to a
priority position in the policy agenda. "Jua Kali" refers literally to those who work, without shelter, under
the "hot sun" (the meaning in Kiswahili). In the popular mind, "Jua Kali" is equivalent to "informal
sector."

Previously, despite ILO's 1972 report on Kenya which popularized the term "informal sector", the Jua Kali
sector was generally regarded by the Government as a nuisance on the fringes of society. The Micro and
Small Enterprise Training and Technology (MSETT) project was the Bank's response to this government
strategy which called for "enhancing technology transfer and strengthening skills upgrading in the informal
sector as a means to improve the overall efficiency and productivity of Jua Kali operations at the enterprise
level." (SAR).

The original long term objective of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (dated March 1994),
was to enhance the entrepreneurial development in the private sector and, more specifically, reduce
constraints to employment promotion and income enhancement in the micro- and small-enterprise
(informal) sector in Kenya.

The original specific project objectives (as stated in page ii of the SAR) were to:
l provide skill upgrading for about 60,000 Jua Kali personnel (mainly in the manufacturing sector); and
    diversify and improve the quality of about 200 public and private sector training providers;
l increase the access of small scale entrepreneurs to appropriate technology and marketing information
    and attendant infrastructure (sites and services) on a pilot basis; and
l improve the policy and institutional environment, particularly the strategic policy analysis, monitoring
    and evaluation functions of the Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology (MRTT&T)
    and the management capacity of the Jua Kali Federation and Associations.

These objectives reflected the Government's priorities. Indeed, this World Bank project was initiated at an
ideal time and gave the necessary support and funding for the Government's development plan.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Due to lack of implementation progress, an intensive mid-term review mission was conducted from June
30-July 10, 1997. As a result, the Project was transferred from the Human Development Group within the
World Bank to the Private Sector Development unit and was redesigned. The restructured design sought to
achieve simplicity. The restructuring also shifted the emphasis from training as such to a more strategic
private sector market development approach of building awareness, demand, and supply capability to
sustain a private training market.

The long term objectives of the project remained the same, as stated in Schedule 2 of the amended DCA
(July 31, 1998). The amended DCA restated the three main parts of the project, namely demand driven
training, technology development and pilot infrastructure, and institutional development.

The specific objectives of the project as restructured in late 1997/early 1998 and further revised (as cited in
sections of Aide Memoires dated July and November 1997) are to:
l provide skill and management training for about 32,000 Jua Kali workers in the manufacturing sector




                                                      - 2 -

    [subsequently revised downward to 24,000];
l establish a viable market for training and support services to micro and small enterprises by
    diversifying and improving the quality of about 20 public training institutions and 200-300 private
    sector training providers;
l increase the access of about 1,400 micro and small enterprises (MSEs) to technology, business
    development services, and microfinance institutions; and
l improve the policy and institutional environment for Jua Kali development by improving Ministry
    strategy, policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation functions.


3.3 Original Components:
The original components as outlined in the 1994 SAR includes:
(a)     The Jua Kali Training Fund (voucher program and contract training scheme) ­ US$11.5 million
(b)     Technology Development ­ US$2.8 million
(c)     Pilot Infrastructure ­ US$2.8 million
(d)     Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) ­ US$1.4 million
(e)     Staff Development ­ US$0.7 million

3.4 Revised Components:
The project began its restructuring in mid 1997 when it was transferred to the Private Sector Development
unit and then formally amended in July 1998 with a revised Development Credit Agreement. Restructuring
was necessary because of its inherent complexity and because it had not become operationally practical.
The restructured project removed specific conditionalities and was streamlined to focused on the voucher
system. A logical framework workshop was conducted; however the outcome of this workshop was not
formally documented. Rather, the new outcome, impact, and output indicators were reflected in the PSR.

The revised components includes:
(a)     Jua Kali Training Fund -- US$7.5 million
(b)     Technology Development -- US$1.8 million
(c)     Pilot Infrastructure ­ US$2.8 million
(d)     Policy Analysis, Monitoring, and Evaluation -- US$1.4 million
(e)     Organizational and Staff Development -- US$0.7 million


(a)     Jua Kali Training Fund
This component was central to the project, using an innovative voucher program to develop the market for
MSE training. The voucher model departs from an old supply-driven paradigm that financed public
training institutions that provided a classroom-based curriculum and did not tailor the training for the needs
of the Jua Kali sector. The objectives of this component were to: (1) provide skill and management
training for 32,000 (subsequently scaled down to 24,000) MSEs and (2) foster more effective utilization of
200 existing private and public training institutions. This component used three main market players ­ the
training providers (TPs), the training beneficiaries (TBs), and the intermediary allocation agents (AAs).

(b) Technology Development
This component aimed to stimulate information exchange in product development, facilitate MSEs to
access technology and business development consultancy services, and establish a program of Pilot
Adaptive technology research grants to be awarded on a competitive basis. The objective was to upgrade
1,400 micro training providers through increased access to technology and business development services.




                                                      - 3 -

This component was originally designed for training providers to borrow funds to upgrade their capabilities
and equipment. However, per Government rules, there were problems of establishing a new financial
institution or fund. Thus, this component was changed to a direct, simplified approach using existing
voucher mechanisms for upgrading training providers. This voucher platform was extended to assist Jua
Kali Associations getting training from microfinance institutions and in forming Savings and Credit
Cooperatives (SACCOs) themselves.

(c) Pilot Infrastructure
The infrastructure pilot program was eventually dropped and funds were cancelled. The original intent of
this component was to develop secure sites and services on a pilot basis to provide Jua Kali Associations
and their members with legal and secure tenure to work sites and facilitate their access to appropriate
infrastructure, including water, sewerage, electricity, access roads, refuse collection facilities and drainage.
At the time of the 1998 restructuring, the disbursement conditions were reduced to the minimum
(Government assuring 2 titles for Jua Kali Associations). Contracting for sites were eventually initiated
after the restructuring, but took a long time. This component was eventually dropped when it became clear
that construction could not be undertaken before project closure.

(d) Organizational and Staff Development
This component aimed to improve the institutional environment for the informal sector through training of
the Ministry staff, PCO and Jua Kali representatives in the skills required for effective management and
supervision of the Project.

(e) Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation
This component aimed to improve the policy and institutional environment for Jua Kali development by
improving Ministry policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation functions. Specifically, the component was
to develop and implement an M&E plan for all components, develop manuals, and develop an MIS system.



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although demand-driven projects are common among Bank projects today, as in Community-Driven
Development projects, the MSETT project was uncommon for its time -- testing an innovative,
demand-driven approach. Moreover, inclusion of beneficiary participation is common in preparation of
projects today; however, at that time (a decade ago), such an approach was atypical. The preparation
team should be commended for testing a style and philosophy (beneficiary inclusion in the preparation and
a demand-driven model) unusual for World Bank projects in its time.

That said, however, the quality at entry was unsatisfactory, despite taking three years to prepare. This
assessment is based on the following: (1) the design was complex and had not sufficiently clarified the
management structure nor the implementation process, (2) tender documents such as TORs for private
contractors were not complete, (3) the relationship between the Government and the Jua Kali Federation
(aimed to be a public/private partnership) was ambiguously defined, (4) conditionalities for disbursement
of the infrastructure and technology components (requirement that seven laws regulating Jua Kalis be
amended) were too binding, severely delayed implementation, and were subsequently found not to be the
most important constraints that needed to be addressed, and (5) the project set unrealistic expectations that
a new voucher methodology could train 60,000 MSEs.

The major questionable quality at entry issues (particularly transparency and accountability concerns) were
voiced by other bilateral donor and raised to their EDs in the Bank before Board presentation. An



                                                     - 4 -

emergency mission was sent, and verified some of these donors' concerns. Further, the intended
implementing agency, the Jua Kali Associations, became embroiled in a court dispute. As a result, some
design changes were made, including the introduction of an independent Project Coordination Office (PCO)
to ensure transparency and professional competency. However, the addition of the PCO was not reflected
in the SAR or DCA, but the project was rather presented the Board as originally designed. At the Board,
the project was approved, with more than 30% voting against or abstaining ­ US, Canada, UK, Germany,
and Netherlands.

The poor quality at entry had major implications on the timeline for project effectiveness and
implementation. The Aide-Memoire from the first supervision mission notes the deficiencies of the project
design from entry. Of the four initial components, the training voucher program and the contract training
scheme were further along in the design than the infrastructure and technology components. However, the
Aide Memoire noted that even though the objectives of the first two components were clear, these two
components still had an uneven description of institutions, roles and functions, unclear flow of
decision-making, and incomplete terms of references. In sum, they had insufficient content, organization
and presentation of the overall implementation process. As a result, the first couple of years of project
was spent on clarifying and completing project design.

Former AF2PH, recognizing the weakness in the project design, had a meeting on Feb 3, 1995 with
Bank-wide technical experts to restructure the project to improve quality of entry within the limits of the
DCA. "The group expressed the view that this project should not have gone to the Board. The group
recommended that to implement the project properly, three guiding principles should be put in place ­
simplicity, transparency, and accountability, and that implementation be started with a selected number of
components under straightforward management and implementation structures." (Status Report, Oct 26,
1996).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives was satisfactory. Entrepreneurial development in the private sector was
enhanced and constraints to employment promotion and income enhancement in the micro- and
small-enterprise (informal) sector were reduced. Tracer study results show that the project improved
profits, sales and investment in a significant proportion of trainee businesses (relative to control group),
upgraded micro-business, and helped start new businesses, most of which were run by women.

The project was also able to stimulate the market for business services in the informal sector. Considering
the lengthy delay and restructuring, the voucher program in its final two years managed to catch up quite
substantially with its original objectives and began to fulfill its potential. In fact, its latter performance
could be regarded as remarkable.

On the demand side the project increased information about the business services market and the
acceptance of the value of business services. The willingness to pay for training on the market has
increased, as a result of better appreciation of its value and willingness of TPs to negotiate tailored, shorter,
affordable courses. Indications of higher sustained demand for future services are: (a) declared willingness
by trainees to pay higher prices for repeater training after the voucher program; and (b) new starts and
enhanced business prospects resulting from training which will potentially result in willingness to pay
higher prices.




                                                       - 5 -

On the supply side the main benefit was the reorientation of training towards short, focused and
value-adding training courses, both in the existing private training and consulting sector and in some of the
traditional training institutes. This reorientation include the traditional apprenticeship system within the
Jua Kali sector, with master craftworkers providing short skill training courses, as well as the usual
two-to-three year general apprenticeships. Indications of higher sustained supply of services as a result of
the program are (a) investment in new training facilities, and new fixed assets such as equipment and
classrooms; (b) substantial diversification, reorganization and commercialization of training courses, and
(c) hiring of permanent service staff. There will be some long-term expansion of the training and BDS
market as a result of the program.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Jua Kali Training Fund (US$11.5 million SAR, US$7.5 million actual): This component is rated as
satisfactory. A total of 34,778 micro-enterprise owners and workers received training in four years out of a
total of 172,000 micro-enterprise units estimated in the 1999 census. Of these, 70% were trained in
technical areas and 30% in management. 60% of all trainees were women, greatly exceeding the target of
20%. The provision of training at the nationwide level has greatly exceeded the target of 24,000 revised in
1998 and also surpassed the target of 32,000 set in 1997.
The results from the third tracer study undertaken by Venture Consortium Ltd. in November 2001 showed
the project had the following impact on beneficiaries, training providers, and allocating agents:
l 80% of trainees reported growth in their business (as against 13% in the control group), and 61% had
    added business assets (vs. 21%);
l Women accounted for about 60% of the persons trained (triple the original target), and 59% of those
    who sought training in order to establish a start-up business had done so;
l Training Providers (largely mastercraftworkers within the Jua Kali sector) had increased their
    employment by 78% (vs. 25% in the control group), improved their formal registration status, and were
    more likely to be in a relatively higher income range than the control group;
l As Allocating Agencies, Jua Kali Associations have been able to improve their financial status,
    "refurbish their facilities", repackage themselves, and put operational and management systems in their
    organizations."

Technology Development Component (US$2.8 million SAR, US$1.8 million actual): This component
is rated as satisfactory. This component was undesigned and fraught with severe delays in the beginning
(disbursement was tied to specific conditions). However, by the end of the project, under this component,
1275 voucher clients and 79 SACCO officials were trained, three sectoral exhibitions were held, and 12
sub-sectoral studies were carried out. The TBDS Tracer study noted that the objectives of this component
were met and that the project played a major role in enhancing information exchange and business networks
among MSEs.

The capacity building for JKAs to establish SACCOs (savings and credit cooperatives) started in July
1998. Nationally, 54 SACCOs were formed from JKAs, of which 18 sets (79 officials) have been trained
by Kenya Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives (KUSCO) to manage their SACCOs. Thirteen of the
SACCOs have started savings and loan operations, of which the most advanced (Bondo SACCO) has
mobilized Ksh 3 million and employed two full-time staff.

Pilot Infrastructure Component (US$2.8 million SAR, US$0.0 million actual) : This component is
rated as unsatisfactory, as it was eventually cancelled. This component aimed to supply Jua Kalis with
secure worksites and access to appropriate basic infrastructure, e.g., power, water, sanitation, refuse
collection and roads on an experimental basis. However, the pilot infrastructure was never implemented,



                                                       - 6 -

largely due to the delays by the Government in fulfilling the necessary conditions (the submission of seven
draft bills to Parliament) for disbursement of this component, then in obtaining secure land titles for the
JKAs, and eventually in contracting for the design work. Nevertheless, the efforts to implement this
component resulted in a significant number of JKAs obtaining land titles and a greater understanding by
Ministry of the role it must play in assisting them.

Organization and Staff Development Component (US$0.7 million SAR, US$0.7 actual): This
component is rated as satisfactory. Through this component, 92 PCO/Ministry staff were trained locally
and abroad. The PCO staff, as well as Provincial Applied Technology Officers (PATOs) and District
Applied Technology Officers (DATOs), were able to manage, monitor, and evaluate project
implementation activities.

Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.4 million SAR, US$1.4 million actual): This
component is rated as highly satisfactory based on the level of effort and importance placed on impact
evaluation and monitoring. This component provided timely, accurate, and informative reports. There
were four specific monitoring and evaluation missions conducted by local consultant firms, and a number
of semi-annual M and E reports, and annual reports by the PCO which were funded out of project costs.
An M&E system was developed for all components and staff training, directories and operation manuals
developed, MIS developed for all components.

One could argue that the cost of this component was large and contributed to the overheads; however, given
the innovative nature of this project and the major concerns raised at Board presentation, this level of effort
in M&E was a useful exercise and contributed to the development of donor's and community's
understanding of demand-driven instruments.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high based on an impact at two levels -- within the
Ministry of Labor and Human Resource Development (MLHRD) and within the Jua Kali Associations.

The institutional development impact within MLHRD is reflected in its reorganization. This Ministry has
institutionalized a new Department of Micro and Small Enterprise Development (DMSED) whose
functions include coordinating all official activities relating to the micro and small enterprise sector in
Kenya, performance monitoring of the MSE sector, identifying constraints for vertical growth and supply
chain linkages, policy prescriptions, coordinating and overseeing MSE policies and projects, and
monitoring/evaluating donor programs relating to micro and small enterprises.

The department has integrated staff of the PCO into the new structure. There is planned to be a policy
development division, a business and jua kali services division, and a field and support services division,
which consists largely of the current PCO. Also, MLHRD has adopted the principle of government playing
a facilitating role to encourage private institutions and business development providers to play the leading
role.




                                                       - 7 -

PATOs and DATOs were institutionalized at the time of the project and became an integral part of the
verification, inspection, and handholding process. They will now report directly to the Field and Support
Services division. Having had spent about 50 percent of their time on the MSETTP project, their role has
been redefined to carry out extension services with facilitation from the department. Their proximity to the
beneficiaries and training providers (within their respective provinces and districts), gives them a unique
opportunity to continue playing an active role in MSE development.

Despite the early political wrangling of the Jua Kali Federation and their eventual exclusion from the
Project Board, an interesting and unexpected impact of the project was the strengthened role the Jua Kali
Associations ­ not through the position they were expected to take at the project oversight level, but
through their role as Allocation Agents. The JKAs who acted as Allocation Agents were transformed by
the Project from ad hoc groups facing off with City/town councils over issues such as land title, into
vibrant, value-adding trade associations involved in activities such as savings and credit, and joint
marketing and negotiation with customers and suppliers on behalf of their members, and HIV/AIDs
prevention programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The only negative factor outside the government's control was the in-fighting within the Jua Kali
Federation (JKF). The JKF was intimately involved in project design and preparation. However, after
project effectiveness, there was political wrangling within the Federation and eventually a split in the
leadership of the JKF. These disputes remained unresolved for the first few years of the project and were
partly a cause for delay in project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Context of the overall Kenya portfolio. It is important to frame this section within the broader context of
GOK/World Bank relationship and a problem portfolio. During the late 1990's, the World Bank's country
program for Kenya was in the low case and no new projects were approved between 1998 and 2000. "Of
thirteen projects that were closed between FY98 and FY00, not a single one was rated satisfactory and
rating of Bank and Borrower performance was significantly below the average project performance in the
Africa region. An extensive internal portfolio review in mid-1999 showed strong links between specific
project performance and broader deficiencies in public sector management, especially in the areas of: (a)
weak government committment or ownership; (b) lack of capacity; (c) inadequate counterpart funds; and
(d) financial management weaknesses and irregularities." (World Bank Portfolio Report).

Project specific factors subject to government control. Factors generally subject to government control
within the MSETTP project were substantial and damaging, especially in the early stages. This assessment
is based on: shifting oversight among four Ministries, delays in effectiveness and implementation, high level
of interference, inability to meet the conditions of effectiveness, and attempted fraud.

(a) There was instability throughout implementation as the project was transferred among four Ministries
with oversight by nine different Permanent Secretaries. "This instability made both project implementation
and the proper tracking of project funds very difficult." (QAG review)

(b) Government delay and interference was noted from the beginning of the project and surfaced in the
following cases:
·        The PCO was to act as the main coordination body (with three consultants and seconded Ministry
staff). However, there were "ongoing difficulties related to its inability to manage the project



                                                      - 8 -

independently" (operational review 1999-2000). The Government interfered in day-to-day project
management issues, substantially hampering the project.
·         The management structure of the project (as detailed in the Operations Manual) intended on having
a Board appointed by the Minister of MRTT&T, chaired by the PS and 10 other Board Members ­ three
Directors from MRTT&T, three representatives of Jua Kali Federation/Associations, and four
representatives from private sector organizations/institutions relevant to the development of the Jua Kali
sector. However, after two full years of implementation, the National Federation of Jua Kali Associations
continued to be excluded until the leadership disputes were resolved. By the end of the project, there was
no longer a functioning Project Steering Committee and therefore no mechanism for representation by the
Jua Kali Federation/Association. This exclusion was bitterly noted in the closing Stakeholder Workshop
held during the ICR mission.

(c) Despite continual assurances to remove any hindrances to implementation, these government pledges to
fulfill the conditions of disbursement (the submission of seven draft bills to Parliament) were not honored.
After one full year after project effectiveness, appropriate revisions had been made to only four laws:
Registration of Business Names Act, Trade Licensing Act, Local Government Adoptive By-Laws and
Electric Power Act. As a result, the infrastructure component was eventually dropped and the technology
component had to be restructured.

(d) Last, but not least, there was attempted fraud within the Office of the President in March 1999. Five
staff within the Office of the President colluded and attempted to divert project funds to an account in the
name of a fake training provider. This attempt was intercepted by the Central Bank and all project funds
were frozen. This attempted fraud not only damaged trust and credibility, but also drastically delayed
project process because the Office of the President failed to transfer on time to MLHRD the Kenya
Shillings 17 million they had received for the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were no factors subject to implementing agency control.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original total project cost in the SAR was $21.83 million (XDR 15,700,000) before the agreed
cancellation of $7.8 million (XDR 6,190,000). This reduction was largely due to the damaging factors
subject to government control cited above (section 5.2). Of the new balance after cancellation, the project
disbursed 90%.

Critical flow of funds problems downgraded the project to an unsatisfactory level and held the project back
in earlier stages. The flow-of-funds problem was related to scarce and unavailable government counterpart
funds and the inability of the PCO to manage a special account. When spending commitments for voucher
training accelerated, government budget allocations failed to keep pace, resulting in severe delays in
payments to service providers. Compounding these problems was the complete suspension in flow of funds
for one year after attempted fraud in the Office of the President (see section 5.2).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely, based on an assessment of both market sustainability as well as
institutional sustainability.




                                                      - 9 -

Market sustainability. The Development Impact Study completed at the time of the ICR mission assessed
whether the project improved the capacity of the market to sustain increased training and advisory services
to the business sector in the future. This study, coupled with the tracer studies provides evidence that the
project produced positive effects to stimulate the market for training and indeed resulted in a sustained
increase in service demand. From the demand side, there is an increased willingness to pay market prices
by trainees and from the supply side, a willingness by providers to adjust courses and prices to meet the
available demand. Thus, the project assisted in the creation of a viable market for advisory services, and a
shift in the supply and demand for business training and BDS to a higher long-term level.

A particularly positive indication of a sustaining BDS market for training is the formation of the National
Association for Technology Transfer and Entrepreneurial Training (NATTET), a membership organization
open to all the qualified training providers and allocating agents. It was founded in 2001 with membership
of 200 training providers, initially as a group to lobby for faster payment. Through the project, these
training providers realized a business opportunity. Thus, towards the end of the project, NATTET training
providers drafted a new proposal to help sustain the training services to the jua kali sector. In this
proposal, the training providers have agreed to reduce their fees by 40% (from the levels charged under the
voucher program) and found through informal surveys that beneficiaries were willing to pay 25% of the
cost of training (as opposed to the 10% under the voucher program). The proposal which they would like
to present to the World Bank and other donors is to help bridge the remaining 35% gap either through
donor funds or other sources of subsidies. Although an indicative 35% subsidy dependence level still
remains for the market to be sustainable, the project helped to drastically reduce the level from 90% to
35%.

Institutional sustainability. The rationale for a "likely" rating depends not only on the creation of a new
market for BDS services to the jua kali sector, but also on an assessment of the sustainability of the
support institutions. As cited in section 4.5, institutional impact of this project was very high -- both at the
Ministry and the Jua Kali association levels. As noted in other sections of this report, the Ministry has
integrated staff of the PCO into a new Micro and Small Enterprise (MSE) department and has embraced
the principle of demand-driven BDS market for the informal sector with the government playing the role of
a facilitator rather than as direct provider of training. In addition the PATOs and DATOs (see section 4.5)
will continue to function as the field support for training market.

Moreover, the Jua Kali Associations, through their role as Allocating Agents under this project, were
transformed into an information broker between trainers and clients. These associations are well now
recognized and respected; the Ministry even organized a workshop in November 2002 for the growing
number of umbrella bodies serving different segments of the MSE and informal sectors. These groups have
now formed into the Confederation of Informal Sector Organizations (CISO) as an overarching umbrella
body for better coordination.

At the end of the stakeholder workshop (which was held during the last supervision/ICR mission), the
stakeholders appointed a committee comprising both CISO representatives and Government staff to draft a
strategy for continued assistance to the jua kali sector beyond the life of the project. The strategy report
was recently completed.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition of the voucher activities was not smooth. The intention was to, overtime, decrease the subsidy,
and thus incorporate a smoother exit strategy. However, the major delays in the beginning of the project
which shortened the time period for the voucher program to operate, did not allow room for a "soft
landing." Many beneficiaries and training providers felt that the issuance of vouchers ended too abruptly



                                                       - 10 -

and well before the voucher program's maturity.

Transition of institutional arrangements has been much smoother. The Ministry has institutionalized a new
Micro and Small Enterprise (MSE) department and has already integrated staff of the PCO into the new
structure. There is a policy development division, a business and jua kali services division, and a field and
support services division, which consists largely of the current PCO.

The site visits during the ICR mission clearly showed the necessity for further guidance to the Jua Kali
Associations to assist with sustaining the activities outside the World Bank project. Three examples
include: (1) provide guidance to JKAs to assist them in their new role as advisor and broker between
training providers and beneficiaries; (2) further train SACCOs as many are only now starting their savings
and loans operations; and (3) provide guidance to beneficiaries to continue training and locating training
providers through the use of the Directories. If the Department of Micro and Small Enterprises fails to
provide handholding assistance to these stakeholders during this period of transition, much of the project's
impact and outcomes may not sustain.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory for all the issues discussed in Section 3.5.
Despite taking three years to prepare, the project was under designed and complex, forcing the team to
continue designing for two years after effectiveness. Moreover, the Task Manager's departure from the
project team directly after Board approval, was not strategic given the project's high risk profile, the major
concerns raised at the Board, and the Regional VP's assurance for intensive attention and above average
budget for supervision.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision overall was marginally satisfactory. It should be noted,
however, that this supervision rating captures various stages over a eight year period and three task teams.
The first two years of supervision were essentially spent on preparation and design. This time was spent on
setting up the Project Coordination Office and hiring consultants, purchasing equipment, and designing the
underdesigned components. There were no disbursements during the first two years other than payments
for furniture and PCO staff.

At the time of restructuring between 1997-1998, a concerted effort was taken to set aside specific,
quantified, and dated benchmarks against which project progress and the responsible Project staff could be
objectively evaluated. Although the team managed to restructure the project, simplify the design and
address the major barriers which were impeding disbursement and to initially restore satisfactory progress
by these criteria, the team did not adequately reflect the subsequent re-emergence of poor implementation
concerns in the PSR. During the QAG review in FY00-01 of "Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects",
the panel believed that "the team should have reflected earlier in the project's ratings the poor
implementation in FY00. The project failed to meet benchmarks as early as the PSR in 1999, but was not
downgraded until December 2000." (QAG) The task team's reason for not downgrading was that with
every supervision mission, agreeable arrangements were discussed and negotiated in the Aide-Memoire.
However, the Government never fulfilled its promises after the supervision mission team returned to
Washington. The ICR assessment agrees with the QAG review panel that the team was overly optimistic,
despite the pattern of Government's unfulfilled promises, and should have flagged their concerns earlier.




                                                      - 11 -

The project team paid considerable attention to development impact. The team towards the end of the
project went beyond the regular duty of WB supervision and wrote papers on the innovative model and was
aggressive in knowledge sharing. It also commissioned an in-depth review of the voucher systems and a
development impact study as part of the ICR mission. This effort contributed greatly to the Bank's and
development community's understanding of demand-driven models.

World Bank supervision and management costs over the seven-year life consisted of a total of 12 Bank
supervision missions (some relatively large) up to the end of 2002, amounting to some 900 person days
over the project life, excluding the amounts of time input at HQ. During almost all supervision missions,
visits to Jua Kali sites were arranged to fully understand the impact on the beneficiaries. It should be noted
that despite the Regional VP's assurance for above average budget for supervision (at the time of Board
approval), task management cited insufficient funding for the level of supervision necessary.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was marginally satisfactory. The quality at entry was unsatisfactory, was
transferred among four different Task Managers (perceived by the Borrower as inconsistency), and the
project team did not appropriately report the implementation problems in PSRs until the last two years.
However, given the high level of commitment to make the project work, achieve and measure development
impact, and test out a model to create a sustainable training market for the informal sector, the assessment
of overall Bank performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's preparation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory due to major issues discussed
above in the project underdesign.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory due to the reasons outlined in
Section 5.2 above. In addition to the factors in 5.2, the financial management rating was unsatisfactory for
most of the project implementation. The problems included significant disparity between the project
accounts, and the bank statements, and the ledger accounts, as well as untimely audits.

It should be noted that during the last three years when the project was housed in the Ministry of Labor and
Human Resource development, there was a period of stability and the project implementation reached a
satisfactory level. The problems of financial management also improved in the last stage.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Coordination Office (PCO) performance is assessed as satisfactory. While there were
substantial delays and conflict issues with the Government, the PCO worked hand in hand with the World
Bank team to resolve the delays, flow of funds problems, and implementation obstacles.

Pricewaterhouse Coopers completed an in-depth review of project systems and processes in June 2002.
The strengths identified included high levels of compliance with operational and procurement processes.
The weaknesses found in the audit were delayed payments, weaknesses in the MIS systems, and lack of
transparency in the claims settling process.




                                                     - 12 -

Interviews with training providers during the ICR mission indicated that one main weakness of the PCO
was insufficient information dissemination. Moreover, some of the misperception of the project could have
been diminished if there was a more structured channel of communication with the public.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. Major delays in program implementation during
the first half of the project is explained by Government interference, attempted fraud, flow of funds
problems, and transfer between four Ministries.

8. Lessons Learned

Due to its innovative nature, complexity and high maintenance costs, a relatively large number of detailed
studies have been made of its performance, including progress reports, tracer studies, monitoring and
evaluation reports, supervision reports, and the development impact study ­ which all serve as inputs into
good lessons learned. These include:

Upfront study
A study is needed to determine the rationale for a voucher program/training subsidy. It should make a
preliminary assessment of the source of market failure, supply side or demand side, and the extent and
cause of market failure, such as information inadequacy, risk and uncertainty within the BDS market, to
assess the likelihood that there will be long-term gains from a temporary injection of resources. It should
show why and how information is an important constraint on the market, along with other possible
constraints. It should consider optional approaches including funding or non-funding methods. It should be
explained how information inputs would be absorbed (i.e. learned), not just provided, and the case should
be made, if appropriate, that funding would improve the flow and absorption of information.

The rate of co-payment, or voucher subsidy
The appropriate co-pay rate (percentage of the voucher value) is an important project design parameter,
both to ensure that an appropriate number of vouchers is taken, and to help the project to be cost-effective.
A project must get the maximum market development impact per amount of public cost. Since the major
public cost is usually the voucher subsidy (voucher value less co-pay) then the impact per unit of voucher
subsidy is a key indicator. The co-pay rate affects the number of market transactions generated directly,
and also the numbers post-voucher, since the latter number is related to the former. In practice it is
important to select a co-payment that would just generate an appropriate target number of voucher users,
avoiding too many `windfall gainers' or non-serious/ non-competitive users who have no possibility of
paying market prices later. A practical approach is to estimate the subsidy level that, on average, seems to
provide just enough financial incentive for a target number of beneficiaries to enter the market. This might
vary between sub-sectors, so it is necessary to choose between a uniform co-pay rate that might result in
some sub-sectors being over-represented, and specific rates that increase the complexity of the processes.

Minimizing overheads
It is important to keep down overheads and transaction costs for a given level of oversight. In the MSETTP
project the amount of verification and inspection was too high to justify direct replication. The overhead
cost of the project, including training subsidy, management and verification cost (PCO costs, M and E
reports, audits), Government costs and World Bank supervision costs was 50% of total cost. Thus half the
cost of each training place was overhead rather than instruction.

Finding a structure that most closely resembles the market.



                                                    - 13 -

The project must try to promote a sustainable market structure. An intermediary layer (Allocating Agents)
may be used to provide information, promote the project, vet applicants and issue vouchers, but in the long
run intermediaries of this type are not necessarily a natural feature of a market. The sustainability of AAs,
as such, may not be important in a functional market as information is transmitted through providers and
recipients.

However, trade and artisans associations (the JKAs) who were also AAs play a different long run role, and
are a particularly strong aspect of the Kenyan MSEs. They have represented MSEs vis-à-vis local
authorities on land issues, have formed credit associations, and have used revenue to improve space and
facilities. Some are setting up joint marketing facilities for their members. Further micro-enterprise
promotion projects in Kenya should be built around the JKAs, and in other countries attempts should be
made to identify comparable trade association bodies that can represent the MSE units, if possible.

Options for setting up intermediaries are to subcontract them to a separate organization, such as the JKAs
or equivalent, or to set up an allocation infrastructure under the managing entity. A third approach that
reduces the number of intermediaries is an e-voucher system, as is being piloted in South Africa (adapted
from the Kenya program model), which proposes to use a small number of AAs, one per province.

Private sector management
Generally, a project promoting mass training in MSEs should be run outside Government. The scale of the
project management responsibility needs to be appropriate to the absorptive capacity of the local private
sector, and should also avoid conflicts of interest. The principle should be to ensure both management
autonomy and appropriate domestic capacity building. This requires avoiding the award of a
disproportionately large management contract to just one local entity. One way of doing this might be to
seek a consortium of private or NGO agencies under a unified project management. Alternatively, if
autonomy with avoidance of conflict of interest within the local market is especially important, a foreign
fund manager might be considered. If the project must be managed through the government, a semi
autonomous body should be formed to ensure smooth and speedy implementation. This body should be
subject to government/donor financial accounting procedures. This body should also have an internal
procurement system compatible with government/donor procedures.                 This is expected to speed up
procurement of goods and services.

Private procurement
Along with private management should be procurement arrangements that do not involve the Government
(eg in this project the Kenyan Central Tender Board). While the formalization of procurement
arrangements may be important, the need to obtain Tender Board approvals caused major delays and
inflexibility. Provided the provider firms listed in the providers' directories are identified through Bank
procurement policies in terms of competition, economy and efficiency, there should be no need for further
regulation through Government procurement procedures. More procurement flexibility is needed to permit
continuous updating of (a) qualified provider lists and (b) voucher valuations. At the same time project
accounting should be de-linked from Government, and project managers should have signatory rights on
special accounts, subject to normal oversight procedures.

Oversight and verification
The potential for fraud at the level of the training provision is not great (at average voucher values of about
$150) and checks and balances can be built in. Efficient operation necessitates finding ways to move
towards a decentralized, self-policing system as far as possible. A highly controlled approach, such as
practiced in this project, achieved control but at a cost in terms of possibly stifling market growth.




                                                      - 14 -

Pilot projects
The learning process involved in implementing a voucher scheme especially for the first time in a particular
country is relatively long. Moving too fast in implementation to the national level risks a lot of mistakes
and administrative problems, such that the speed of scale-up is offset by a slow pace of transactions with
adverse implications for market development. It seems to be essential to start with a small pilot to test the
basic idea. (The initial pilot in Kenya ­ in Nairobi and Machakos ­ has been criticized as too large). Once
the ideas have been tested and modified, phase two should be a larger pilot, to familiarize a larger group of
potential training providers and beneficiaries with the approach before going national. With the stripped
down system recommended here the learning process should be faster, but the pilots remain essential.

Information Dissemination
This project could have greatly benefitted from a targetted and consistent public awareness/information
dissemination campaign. For years, the project was weighed down by allegations of corruption at various
levels. For a project of such scale and mass reach, funds should have been devoted to increase awareness
and reduce the scope for misperception.

Exit strategy
The Kenya project did not have enough time to see much repeater training. The issue of a `sunset' or a `soft
landing' for the scheme was never addressed in practice, although the project allowed in principle for a
rising voucher price (10%, 20% and 30% co-pay). If the purpose of a voucher project is to provide a
jumpstart to a nascent but potentially lively market then it may be that a one-off injection of funds is
enough. However, the market development effect may require more than a single jump-start to build
confidence and raise expectations. For potential trainees developing the confidence that training can be
translated into actual income is more difficult and takes longer, and there is also the learning curve for
voucher projects, as repeat voucher users are likely to select more beneficial courses and better training
providers when they understand more.

These factors suggest that a phase out of a voucher program, rather than a jumpstart followed by abrupt
closure, would be likely to reap a superior development impact.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government complement report will be attached.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
a. Increased employment opportunities and     Tracer study (2001) shows 80% of                  Tracer study (2001) shows 80% of
earnings - 50% increase of jobs among         beneficiaries reported growth in business (as beneficiaries reported growth in business (as
project beneficiaries and 50% improvement in opposed to 13% in control group); 59% who          opposed to 13% in control group); 59% who
income as a result of productivity            sought training to start new businesses had       sought training to start new businesses had
improvemenst achieved through project         done so; 61% had added business assets            done so; 61% had added business assets
inputs.                                       (vs. 21%); 45% earned between Ksh. 10,000 (vs. 21%); 45% earned between Ksh. 10,000
                                              and 20,000 (vs. 38% of control group).            and 20,000 (vs. 38% of control group).

c. Secured worksites and infrastructure for   6 plots have been titled to Jua Kali              Although the infrastructure component was
the informal sector on 5 plots.               associations, but infrastructure component        eventually dropped, the exercise of securing
                                              was eventually dropped                            titles was important since jua kalis now are
                                                                                                able to get title deeds
d. Increased operational management and       5 public institutions are participating in the    5 public institutions are participating in the
managerial capacity of 20 public training and program as training providers and 700 private program as training providers and 700 private
technology institutions and 200-300 private   providers (out of 3500 applicants) were           providers (out of 3500 applicants) were
training providers.                           certified nationally to participate in the second certified nationally to participate in the second
                                              phase of the voucher program                      phase of the voucher program
e. Microfinance/savings and credit capacity   54 Savings and Credit Cooperatives were           54 Savings and Credit Cooperatives were
and access to MFI's among ten Jua Kali        formed by Jua Kali associations. 90               formed by Jua Kali associations. 90
Associations; 50 Jua Kali mastercraftsmen     Executive committe members (from 18 of            Executive committe members (from 18 of
become MFI clients;                           these SACCOs) were trained.                       these SACCOs) were trained.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Jua Kali Training Program                                   11.50             7.50            65.2
Technology and Business Development and Pilot                5.60             1.80            32.1
Infrastructure
Institutional Development                                    2.10             2.10               0

Total Baseline Cost                                         19.20           11.40
                         Total Project Costs                19.20           11.40
                   Total Financing Required                 19.20           11.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                            2.01                       0.00         2.01
                                    ()             (2.01)          ()          (0.00)       (2.01)
2. Goods                           1.40             0.00         0.00          0.00         1.40
                                  (1.40)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.40)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        18.40          0.00         18.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (16.47)         (0.00)      (16.47)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         2.37          0.00         2.37
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.91)          (0.00)       (1.91)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00                       0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.43)          (0.00)       (0.43)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00                       0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)          ()          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           1.40             2.01        20.77          0.00         24.18
                                  (1.40)           (2.01)      (18.81)         (0.00)      (22.22)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00                         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)             ()        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                                           0.00                        0.00        0.00
                                    ()            (0.00)       (0.38)         (0.00)       (0.38)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00                        0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (9.30)         (0.00)       (9.30)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00                        0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.45)         (0.00)       (1.45)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00                        0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.15)         (0.00)       (0.15)
                                                - 17 -

   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.28)            (0.00)           (11.28)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Training                       11.50                                  7.50                               65.2

Technology Development &        5.60                                  1.80                               32.1
Pilot Infrastructure

Institutional Development       2.10                                  2.10                               100.0




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/30/1993                5    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (4)
                                                ECONOMIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/10/1994                5    EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (4);
                                                ECONOMIST (1)


 Supervision
              05/24/1994                5    EDUCATION SPECIALIST             S               S
                                             (3); INFORMATION
                                             MGMT. SPEC (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/17/1995                6    SR. FINANCIAL AUDIT              S               S
                                             ADVISOR (1); SR. PROC.
                                             SPEC. (1); SR.
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              07/29/1995                4    TRG/HUMAN RES/SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             TRAINING FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/08/1995                6    TRG/HUMAN RES/SPEC. (1);         U               S
                                             TRAINING FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             IMPLEMEN/PROC/SPEC. (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2)
              03/22/1996                6    TRG/HR SPECIALIST (1);           U               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                             IMPLEMENT./PROC. SPEC.
                                             (1); VOUCHER PROGRAM
                                             SPEC. (1); EDUCATION SPEC.
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              07/18/1996                7    TRN/HR SPECIALIST (1);           S               S
                                             IMPLEMENT./PROC. SPEC (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (1); TRN.
                                             STRATEGY SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (RM) (1);
                                             PARTIC. APPROACH SPEC.
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              02/17/1997               10    TECH SP INFORMAL SECT            U               U
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC
                                             (1); IMPLEM



                                              - 20 -

                                   SPEC/ARCHITECT (1);
                                   DISBURSEMENT (1); HUMAN
                                   RESOURCES ECON. (1); HR
                                   ADVSR/VOC TRN SPEC. (1);
                                   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                   ECON/INFORMAL SECT SPE
                                   (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                   (1); HUMAN DEV
                                   ECONOMIST (1)
               11/19/1997        7 PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC (2);    S    S
                                   DISBURSEMENTS (1);
                                   EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                   ECON/INFORMAL SECT SPE
                                   (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                   PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. (1)
               07/17/1998        4 TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD       S    S
                                   SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1)
               02/16/1999        4 TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD       S    S
                                   SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1)
               05/24/1999        2 TASK MANAGER (1);           S    S
                                   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
               08/15/2000        2 TTL (1); LEAD SPECIALIST    S    S
                                   (1)
               03/04/2001        2 TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)     U    S
               04/11/2002        3 ADVISOR (1); EDUCATION      S    S
                                   CONSULTANT (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1)
               10/25/2002        4 LEAD SPECIALIST (1);        S    S
                                   CONSULTANT (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                   (1); FIN. MGMT. SPEC.

 ICR
               02/28/2003        6 SENIOR ADVISOR (1); PS      S    S
                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                   EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                   CONSULTANT (1);
                                   PROCUREMENT
                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                   DISBURSEMENT SPEC.
                                   (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle       Actual/Latest Estimate



                                   - 21 -

                              No. Staff weeks      US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total                            478.749             1224.4




                                         - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
Bank performance is rated as marginally satisfactory

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Following is the complete report submitted by the Government of Kenya




                                                  - 26 -

- 27 -

