G   -l  . <   ,    7/        --. -
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12275-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNCLOGY PROJECT
MARCH 2, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12275 KE
Type: SAR
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA                    FORT0CLAL USE ONLY
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAENING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATU           Applied Technology Unit
CBS           Central Bureau of Statistics
CRT           Center for Research and Technology
COTU          Central Crganization of Trade Unions
DANIDA        Danish Intermational Development Agency
DAT           Directorase of Applied Technology
DIT           Directorate of Industrial Training
DRD           Directorate of Research and Development
DTT           Directorate of Technical Training
FAD           Finance and Accounts Department
FKE           Federation of Kenyan Employers
IT            Institute of Technology
ITC           Industrial Training Center
JK            Jua Kali Federation
KAM           Kenya Association cf Manuftcturers
KIM           Kenya Institute of Management
KIRDI         Kenya Industrial Research Development Institute
K-MAP         Kenya Management Assistance Progrum
-UBT          Kenya Iostitute of Business Training
KIE           Kenya Industrial Estates
KREP          Kenya Rural Enterprise Prograr
MRTT&T        Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
NIfC          National Industrial Training Council
NP            National Polytechnic
NYS           National Youth Service
ODA           Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PDU           Planning and Development Unit
PSDS          Private Sector Development Strategy
P1T0          Provincial Technical Training Officers
SBC           Small Business Centre
TGU           Training and Gender Unit
TSC           Teachers Service Commission
1T[           Technical Training Institute
VET           Vocational Education and Training
VSO           Voluntary Service Overseas
YP            Youth Polytechnic
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal, appraisal and post appraisal missions
which visited Kenya in March, June, and October 1993, repectively, comprising Nat 1. Colletta
(Principal Educator and mission leader), Yang-Ro Yoon (human resources economist), Pat Walker
(implementation specialist), Bettina Moll-Druecker (training and education specialist), Stephano
Migliorisi (private sector development specialist), Lem Miravalles (monitoring and evaluation
specialist), Charles Byrabuanga (statistician/economist) and James Kamunge (educator). Lydia Tabi
provided secretarial assistance in the preparation of the report. Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas is the
ainaging division chief and Francis Colago is the managing department director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF DENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERpRSE TRANING AND TECHNOLOGY PROQECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA  . ................................................  i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..............................   ii-iv
I. INTRODUCTION   .                 ..........................................   1
A.  Macroeconomy and Employment  ............................   1
B.   The Bank's Country Assistance Program   .......................  3
1I. INFORMAL SECTOR GROWTH AND TRAINING .....................                                             S
A.  Overview of the Informal Sector  ............................  5
B.  Constraints to Informal Sector Growth and Development  ....                     .........  7
Policy Environment   ..................................   8
Training Supply and Skills Demand  ........................   11
Technology Development  ..............................   13
Imstitutional Capacity  .................................   14
C.   The Role of the Public Sector in Informal Sector Development ....                 .....  15
D.  Government Sectoral Policies and Objectives   ...................   17
E.  Activities of Other Major Donors ...........................   18
F.   Lessons from  Previous Bank Involvement ......................  20
Informal Sector Training ...............................   20
Infrastructure Development ................. I ...........  21
G.  Rationale for Bank Assistance  .............................   22
m. THE PROPOSED PROJECT  .............. ..                              ...................   23
A.  Project Concept and Objectives             ............           ................   23
B.   Policy Actions ................ .. .....................   23
C.   Project Description ............... ..                    ...................   24
Component 1. Micro-and Small Enterprise Training Fund .....                    .......  24
a. Training Voucher Program   ...........................  26
b. Contract Training Scheme ............................   27
Component 2. Technology Development and Pilot Infrastructure   .. .....  28
a. Technology Information/Innovation and Research Program   ....                 ...  28
b. Pilot Infrastructure Development  .......................  30
Component 3. Institutional Development  ....... ..                   .............   31
a. Staff Development  ...........                  .....................   31
b. Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation   ................  32



Iv.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ........................... 34
A. Costs ...34
B. Fnina ncingPla    35
C. Disbursenments                                                      37
D. Procurement ..... ..................................  39
E. Accounts and Audlts .......           ..........   42
F. Prcject Implementation  .... .....                ........   43
V.  BENEFITS ANDRISKS ................. 46
A. Benefits .................                                          46
B. Risks ................. 47
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....                    ......... 49
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations .......    ...............  49
B. Conditions of Negotiaons .    ..............................  49
r. Conditions of Board Presentation .........   .................. 5O
D. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .........   ................. 51
E. Conditionsof Disbursement ............      ..................  51
TEXT TABLES
4.1 ProjectCostSummary .................................. 34
4.2 Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services ......        ...    36
4.3 Disbu       CaemntCategories and Percentages ..              .      38
4.4 Procurement ...   41
5.1 Beneficiary Summary .. .   47
ANNEXES
1.  Labor Market Statistics
2.  Legal and Regulatory Constraints
3.  Letter of Informal Sector Policy and Action Plan
4. Organizational Charts
Chart 1- MRTF&T
Chart 2 - National vua Kali Federation/Associations
S.  The Jua Kali Federation
6.  Structure, Capacity and Financing of the Traiig (VE1) Sector
7.  The Ministry of Research, Tecimical Training and Technology (MRIT&T)
8.  Pilot Incubator (Ifrastructure) Program
9. The Micr-and Small Enterprise Training Fund
10. Applied Technology Research Grants Program
11. Assesing Trai!ing Capacity, Skldl and Reated Technology Needs
12. Project Cost Estimates
13. Schedule of Disbursements
14. Technical Assistance/Contract Services
15. Staff Development Plans (MRT&T and Jua Kali Fedeaton/Associations)
16. Implementation Schedule
17. Key Project Monitoring Indicators
18. Supervision Plan
19. Project Impact Evaluation
20. List of Documents in Project Fle
MAP IBRD No. 241



5 iU z > ; t h f v \ o s AW k t 0 X r , e G U
t'1gnEEdor{;{
4', '.,i".''=W, -t,.'';.'iCi 5,m'S.g i: ''i'''. '; :" tt ..................................................................................... : ., j ... ',';
Sources: World Bank, World Development Report. 1992; World BanE, Increasing Emplovment
Growdl for Povertv Alleviation, CEM, green cover, May 14, 1993; Republic of Kenya, Economic
Survev, various years; Republic of Kenya, Statistical Abstract, various years.
/ CEM, 1993



i.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TAINIG AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU1MMRY
Borrower:           Republic of Kenya
lBenefciaries:      The main beneficiaries are micro- and small enterprises/entrepreneurs,
maay of whom are in the informal sector and/or are poor urban
workers
Execul  Agencies:  Ministry of Researcl, Technical Training and Technology (MRTT&T)
Jua Kali Federation and Associations
Amomlt:             SDR 15.7 million (US$ 21.83 million)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
O)nlendI  Tenns:   Not Applicable
Project Objectives:   The long term aims of the project are to enhance entrepreneurial
development in the private sector and, more specifically, reduce
constraints to employment promotion and income enhancement in the
micro- and small enterprise (informal) sector in Kenya. The specific
project objectives are to: (a) provide skill upgrading for about 60,000
Jua Kali personnel (mainly in the manufacturing sector); and diversify
and improve the quality of about 200 public and private sector training
providers; (b) increase the access of small scale entrepreneurs to
appropriate technology and marketing information and attendant
infrastructure (sites and services) on a pilot basis; and (c) improve the
policy and institutional environment, particularly the strategic policy
analysis, monitoring and evaluation functions of the MRTT&T and the
management capacity of the Jua Kali Federation and Associations.
lProject Description:  The project would accomplish the above objectives through a set of
policies for enabling the entrepreneurial environment and developing a
national training strategy to improve the quality, access, and
sustainable financing of relevant skill upgrading and technology for the
informal sector, and a related investment program. The investment
program includes: (a) a micro- and small enterprise training fund; (b)
a technology information, innovation and research program and pilot
infrastructure development; and (c) institutional development. The
Project would make provision for increasing women's representation
in manufacturing through skills training and technology development
suitable for upgrading their enterprises or bringing them into the
sector. MRTT&T would use private sector contractors, training and
research institutions, the Jua Kali Federaion and Associations and



iii
employers as the primary agents to promote and implement the
project.
Benefits:           Expected benefits are: (a) improved skills and an expanded informal
sector -- including female-owned manufacturing enterprises -- with
increased employment opportunities and earnings through product
quality enhanccment and diversification, secure worksite and improved
infrastructure, better marketing and increased access to technology
choice; (b) a downsized and more focused Ministry of Research,
Technical Training, and Technology capable of policy analysis, setting
training standards, facilitating technical and managerial training and
related technology information and innovation; (c) the progressive
empowerment of the Jua Kali sector which would enhance its
participation in the economic development process; and (d) gradual
inclusion (graduation) of the informal sector into the modem sector by
establishing a legal and contractual basis for its unfettered
development.
Risks:              The possible risks relatte to: (a) the ability of the Government to
specify and implement training and private seetor development policies
to enable informal sector entrepreneurs to operate more effectively;
(b) administrative and over-sight capacity of MRTT&T and Jua Kali
Federation/Associations, including decision-making about Training
Fund allocation and management; (c) beneficiary response exemplified
by their willingness to avail vouchers and to recover user costs for
training, technology information and infrastructure; and (d) the
capacity to sustain policy and project interventions. To overcome
these risks, the project would be conditioned on a policy letter and
action plan ensuring key enabling policies for the Jua Kali sector.
Training Fund replenishments would be allomated on an annual basis,
once .greed and acceptable levels of performance in administration,
award aliocation, and utilization criteria are met.
The process for awarding competitive individual skill upgrading
vouchers, contract training grants and applied technology study tours
and research grants would be evaluated in an annual project review.
A mid-term project evaluation would be included to allow for project
redirection, if necessary. Since institutional development is a major
component focusing on the Jua Kali Federation/Associations and the
MRTT&T, as well as management and planning skills of
entrepreneurs, one significant outcome would be the capacity to
sustain policy and project interventions. With the inclusion of partial
cost recovery through training fees and a modernized Training Levy,
the financial sustainability of training investments would also be
strengthened. In addition, cost recovery measures through the
infrastructure revolving fund managed by the Associations with
oversight from the MRTT&T should contribute to the sustainability of
physical investments.



iv
:::                                                                                         * l . . M:,,,.:i.:,ws.
- : : tNien). -. . ;;:, ................... ^;4
: ' .................. ::'- . D .......... :', .:' '' ............ ' .:-.' . :
edd . . -- - 4.4 - -1+2 - -- - s; : :: Ns
s.,j ',: ',,. ,-: . '?"-.,:'. ', .,, ,'.,. ';, ,", '0 . '.' ' - ' ' ' ' i . ' " : : .'
=iS , ,,$a,,.,,, ,,,^8}, ,9 D Jtff ':: Li 2 ' 3 X
,S 
Rate of Retum: Not Applicable
Map; IBRD No. 24134
2/ Numbers have been rounded.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERIRISE TRAINIG AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Macroeconomy and Employmnet
lhe Kenyan Economy and Employment Challenge
1.1    The Kenyan economy now faces a formidable employment challenge as a result of
slow economic growth combined with the rapid expansion of population. During the first two
decades after Independence in 1963, the economy grew at a rate of nearly seven (7) percent,
which was better than the performance of most developed and developing countries. The
economic growth rate, however, was not sustained in the 1980s, and more recently declined
to 2.2 percent in 1991. The poor economic performance in recent years is attributed mainly
to policy failures - erosion of fiscal and macroeconomic discipline, protective import
substitution oriented policy, excessive and inappropriate forms of Government intervention in
the private sector, etc. - rather than structural impediments or lack of resources. Meanwhile,
the population of 24 million is growing at about 3.4 percent, down from 3.6 percent in the
recent past, but still among the highest growth rates in the world. The total labor force is
expected to grow at an average rate of about 4.1 percent per annum between 1991 to 2000
and over 6 percent in urban areas, accelerated by rural-urban migration and rising labor force
participation, especially of women. I/
1.2     There is no doubt that if present trends contimne, the economy wil be unable to
absorb 492,000 new entrants per year to the labor market with a considerable baclog of
unemployed and underemployed workers. 4/ Given the increased educational attainment
and prevailing attitudes about jobs, most new entrants would be aspiring to employment
outside smallholder agriculture. S/ Total employment outside smallholder agriculture, i.e.
employment in the modem and informal sectors, in 1991 was 2 miUlion. If this employment
were to grow at its trend growth rate of 5.2 percent between 1984 and 1991, then the size of
new job creation would average about 128,000 a year between 1992 to 2000. This implies
that only about a quarter of new entrants would be absorbed by these sectors. Moreover, if
all new entrants were to be employed only in the modem wage sector, then employment in
that sector has to grow at an average rate of 17 percent p.a. during the same period. An
average growth rate of employment in this sector was 3.6 percent between 1981 to 1991.
1.3   It is clearly not possible for aU the entrants to be employed in the modem sector.
Given that the informal sector has a sponge effect in employment, it may be concluded that a
large part of the labor force will inevitably end up faUing within the informal sector. For
example, if their present trend growth rates continue, the modem and the small farm sectors
together will generate 240,000 jobs on average p-.r year. This would leave the balance of
250,000 jobs per year to be created primarily in the rural non-farm and urban micro- and
3/    World Bank, Emolovmenm Growth for Povert, Allevto,n. CEM, green cover (199). 11650-KE).
4/    Today, the unemployment in uthan ateas is about 23 perem, whie in rural a  prvale underemployment is a
more serous problem dmn open unemploymen.
5/1    Almost all new entrants to the labor force would have completed a primny educadon of eight years, and about a third
would have completed secondary school or beyond.



2
small enterprise (informal) sector, of which 75% or 190,000 would be in the urban areas6/.
The challenge becomes not only to stimulate employ-inent in this sector - since this will
happen inevitably - but also to create the conditions for graduation into the formal sector and
ensure quality jobs which are sustainable.
1.4     The pressure of popu!ation growth on a sluggish economy has deteriorated the
standard of living in Kenya. In urban areas, for example, unemployment increased to 23
percent in 1991 from 16 percent in 1986 and the average real wage today is only 45 percent
of its level in 1980. Considering the persistent high dependency ratio of 119, which is the
highest in the world, this may imnply a larger proportion of the population lives at or below
the poverty line.7/ Although the land tenure system in rural areas enabled the smallholder
farmning sector to absorb most people without raising open unemployment, the pressure of a
growing population on increasingly scarce fertile land has led to increased landlessness and to
the farming of environmentally fragile land. Without a change in agricultural technology and
significantly increased productivity, poverty will become widespread in rural areas. In fact,
more than 20 percent of rural households in 1992 could not afford a nutritionally adequate
diet and over one million children under five are stunted due to undernourishment over an
extended period. Overall, if the present trend continues, Kenya's per capita income of $340
per year will double only after 40 years. At that point, it would reach a level which would
place it slightly ahead of average incomes already achieved by Senegal and Zimbabwe, and
slightly behind the level of Cote d'Ivoire.
1.5     To reduce unemployment and poverty, rapid growth of the economy is the most
urgent need. At the same time, adequate policy to harness population growth should be given
a high priority for a long term effect. Given the elasticity of employment to product.on
registered by the Kenyan economy in recent years, a very high growth rate of GDP would be
required in order to absorb the additional labor force. For exam,ple, if the trend elasticities
were to remain the same in the modern and informal sectors, then the combined GDP in these
sectors should grow at an average rate of 13 percent to absorb all new entrants. This
discussion leads to the conclusion that Kenya must raise not only the growth rate of GDP but
also the elasticity of job creation with respect to GDP growth. Therefore, a labor intensive
growth path should be adopted. To achieve this goal, one strategy is to promote a private
sector development which targets larger labor absorption. Another strategy is to develop the
informal sector which has already higher employment-GDP elasticity: 1.1 versus .85 in the
informal and modern sector, respectively. These two strategies should be pursued
simultaneously, particularly facilitating the transition of the infonnal sector into the formal
sector. Aware of these, the Kenyan Government is now pursuing a comprehensive strategy for
the enhancement of the private sector as a whole, including the informal sector.
6/      Note that the 1993 CEM projected that the urban inforn=l sector would absorb new labor market entrants of 79,000,
at a target growth rate of 12 percent p.a. for employment in this sector. Since the CEM aimed at developing a strategy for
private formal sector development, the sponge effect of the informal sector was not considered. The possible increase in rural-
urban migration was also assumed to remait at the present level.
2/      Dependency ratio is defined as the atio of ckilJren and retirement-age adults to the number of working age adults. 15-
64 years old. A high dependency ratio means dtat a relatively smaller proporion of the population is engaged in economic
activities, which thus has an adverse impact on the welfare of households.



3
Development Stratgy and Medirin-term Framework
1.6   Sessional Paper No.t of 1986, Economic Maga=  for Renewed Growth
articulates the Government's long-term development strategy. It forms the basis of the
Development Plan for 1989-93 and the series of Policy Framework Papers (PFP) including
the current one for 1991/92-1993/94. The Sessional Paper emphasizes the need to create
productive employment opportunities for a labor force that in the year 2000 is expected to be
90 percent greater than the level in 1985. Accordingly, it sets a high target GDP growth rate,
which is to be generated primarily by the private sector. Increasingly, the Government's role
is expected to be geared mcre to the provision of an appropriate enabling environment than its
direct interventionist role in economic activity. The strategy, whichs is basically sound,
emphasizes the need to increase agricultural productivity, strengthen links between rural non-
farm activities and the formal sector, and restructure manufacturing to improve efficiency and
enhance export competitiveness. In addition, the informal sector is especially highlighted as a
primary vehicle for social and economic development.
1.7    As spelled out in the current PFP, the Government's specific aims for 1991/92-
1993/94 are to attain output growth of over 5%; reduca- inflation to the average (effective)
level forecast for Kenya's main trading partners (about 5%) by 1993; and reduce the external
current account deficit to a sustainable level of 4% of GDP by 1993/94. To achieve these
objectives, the Govermnent intend. to: (a) reduce the budget deficit to levels that can be
sustained by foreign and non-inflationry domestic financing, and that do not crowd out the
private sector; (b) design and implement a program to restructure and privatize the state
corporation sector; (c) continue the progress in implementing the import liberalization
program and removing the anti-export bias in the system: (d) remove disincentiveL to
production and investment through elimination of the General Prce Control Order as well as
other market regulations; and (e) continue progress in implementing the financial sector
liberalization program, including the removal of the ceiling on bank lending rates, and the
development of secondary markets in debt instruments and capital markets.
B. The Bank's Country Asdsi e Progrm
1.8   There are three priority areas for the Bank's involvement: (a) assistin pic sector
adjustment, involving the divestture and restructuring of parastatals, the down-sizing and re-
organizadon of the civil service, and the rationalization of the remaining public expenditures;
(b) developing a grivate secor through reform of the legal and regulatory environment and
the financial sector, and the elimination of the remaning foreign exchange, price, marketing
and production controls; and (c) taeted intervention to alleviate poverlv, including
improvements in the delivery of social services to low-income groups, with special attention
to the development needs of women and residents in arid and semi-arid areas. I/
1.9    Given the informal sector's strong potential for emnloyment creation, the best way to
support this is to hmprove the productivity of existing enterprises so that they can hire more
workers and create stable jobs. If employment in the informal sector is to grow at a high
rate, the enhancement of productivity and scale at the Jua Kali enterprise level will be
necessary. Development of the informal sector will also lead to poverty reduction through
A/    Coumnty Suatw Paper. Febuy, 1993.



4
increasing the employment opportunities and incomes among the poor and marginal segment
of the society. This combined with the emergence of a middle class will contribute to an
improvement of income inequality. The proposed project would provide support to the
Kenyan Government toward meeting these goals.



5
II. INFORMAL SECTOR GROWTH AND TRAINING
A. Overview of the Informal Sector
2.1     The 1972 International Labor Office (ILO) study on Kenya used the term  "informal
sector" to describe a set of activities which had been neglected in previous economic analysis
and policies. The informal sector, however, is an ambiguous and comprehensive term
embracing everything from small-scale manufacturing and repair to trade, transport,
construction, and services. This heterogeneity raises a serious definitional question. While
almost every research, study and project adopt their own definition, the criteria which have
been commonly used to distinguish the infr.,: -it sector include: (a) whether enterprises
comply with government regulations, e.g., business registration and minimum wages, etc.,
and whether they pay taxes; (b) whether they are involved in illegal or illegitimate activities
such as prostitution or crime; (c) size of enterprises; (d) amount of assets; and (e) amount of
energy use. WVhile criterion (a), in particular, is consistent with the objectives of the proposed
project, it is not helpful to characterize the informal sector as one evading regulations and
taxes, since many small enterprises have a variety of registrations and pay some taxes such as
custom duties on inputs. This makes it difficult to define beneficiaries of this project. Hence,
it is more useful to identify the informal sector on the basis of size of establishment, measured
by number of employees. In this respect, a working definition of the informal sector is
adopted to cover micro (zero to nine employees) and small enterprises (10-49 employees) to
serve as a criterion to determine the beneficiaries. 2/ Further, the term "Jua Kali", literally
meaning "hot sun" in Kiswahili, is used colloquially to refer to enterprises specializing in the
manufacture of products and providing productive services, rather than traders per se, who
are the majority of informal sector entrepreneurs.
2.2     Almost every survey conducted in Kenya adopts a different definition and the size of
the sector varies depending on the definition. The definition used in the Small-Scale
Enterprises (SSE) Survey includes "self employed persons in open markets, in market stalls,
in undeveloped lots, or on street pavements within urban centers". 10/ Under this
definition, businesses that are household-based or have more permanent premises and employ
extra workers, which are more likely to have growth potential, are for the most part excluded.
The 1993 CEM estimated that by adding 20 percent adjustment, the 1991 informal
employment was 598,513 at 350,066 establishments with one to twenty persons. 1I/ The
informal sector constitutes 98 percent of all businesses in the country and contributes 37
percent of total urban employment, about 1.6 million in 1991. Urban centers accounted for
9/      This defintion does not exclude smal firms in the modem sector in order to maxinize the potential for employment
generation development through sub-contracting as well as cost recovery of investments. However, there would be provisions to
ensure that project benefits would not be captured only by the better off enterprises. See eligibility criteria for infrastrucure,
voucher program, and contract training scheme in Annexes 8 and 9.
10/     The Small-Scale Enterprises Survey (Infomal Sector Survey before 1987) is anmually conducted by the Central Bureau
of Statistics (CBS). It covers all 91 towns of 2,000 persons or more, and adopts a systematic, street-by-street count of informal
(open-air) activities. This method makes it difficult to achieve full coverage of the sector on a nadonal scale and therefore,
under-representation may be likely.
11      For example, a recent survey conducted in Kibera, suburban area of Nairobi, with an estimated population of 25,000
found that 35 percent of al households had small enterprises operatig from their residences. Such firms mostly hired I to 20
employees. These enterprises would not be included in CBS data. (Patker. oan and Aleke-Dondo, C. 'Kiberas SmaU Scale
Enterprise Sector: Baseline Survey Report' Febsuaiy 1991). For a more detailed atgument, see CEM 1993.



6
nearly two thirds of total employment, while Nairobi makes up 25 percent of all employment
in the sector. About 60% of informal operators are involved in trade with the remainder
divided equally between manufacturing and other services.
2.3    The informal sector recently has made a substantial contribution to the expansion of
employment in Kenya. According to CBS data, employment in the informal sector grew at 14
percent per annum in the last three years as compared to 2.3 percent in the modern wage
sector, steadily rising from 9.5 percent in 1985 (Annex 1, Table 1.3). This means that more
than three quarters of new jobs outside smallholder agriculture are created in the informal
sector. The manufacturing sub-sector, in particular, showed higher employment growth (19
percent). There is also a large geographical variation in the growth rate, e.g. the highest,
16.5 percent for Nairobi and the lowest, 6.9 percent for Western Province. This is attributed
to a disparity in market opportunities, that is, the demand for goods and services.
2.4    There are three types of workers in the informal sector: working owners, paid
workers, and unpaid family workers. Most enterprises employ fewer than five workers in
addition to the owner. The overall level of employment per establishment is on average about
1.7 workers including the owner. This means that each establishment hires less than one
employee in addition to an owner. A majority of the total workers in the informal sector are
unpaid family workers (53 percent). While females constitute about one third of the non-
owner workers in the informal sector they work mostly as unpaid family workers. Only one-
quarter of the non-owner women are paid workers in comparison to two third of hired men.
The manufacturing sector, in general, hires more workers than the other sectors. The share
of paid workers is also the largest in the manufacturing sector with nearly 42 percent of total
paid workers. Especially, enterprises specializing in wood and wood products or in
fabricating metals generate the largest employment, while those in retail trade, clothing and
leather industries generate almost no extra employment besides the owner.
2.5    Women constitute about 49 percent of Kenya's informal entrepreneurs in urban areas,
exceeding their 40 percent share of the total urban labor force. Kenya, however, is consistent
with global patterns whereby women are more likely to be involved in trade and services than
in manufacturing. Even in manufacturing women are concentrated in leather and clothing
industries. The Kenyan Government estimates that women constitute 60 to 70 percent of
those in trade, about half of those are engaged in services, and less than 10 percent in the
manufacturing sector. This means that female owned establishments have a lower
employment generation effect since female-dominant industries have the least number of hired
employees (para. 2.4). The proportion of women entrepreneurs is higher in regions with high
concentration of Kikuyus. This may be attributed to the fact that Kikuyu women have
developed income-generating self-help groups that provide a training ground for business
activity.
2.6    While there is scarce information on the wages and income of the informal sector, the
few available statistics confirm the common perception that the informal sector workers
comprise the lower income group. For example, the 1991 estimates in Nairobi indicate that
the Jua Kalis' average monthly wage of Ksh 740 is substantially below the minimum monthly
wage of Ksh 964. A recently published Economic Survey (1993) shows that an average
income of informal sector worker headed households is lower than fonnal sectr.: worker's
households: Ksh 3,420 versus Ksh 3,749 in Nairobi and Ksh 2,284 versus Ksh 3,498 in
Eastern Province. However, earnings from some informal sector activities are generally
comparable and sometimes higher than the income from the paid employees in the modern



7
sector. Garages, metal fabrication, and wood processing give the highest eamings to owners
and highest wages paid to workers, while tailoring and shoentaking the lowest. Tailoring and
shoemaking are those trades which have been most exposed to competition from urban-based,
mass-produced goods. Overall, employees receive about one-half of the mean eamings of
owners.
2.7   Initial capital invested in informal sector enterprises mostly comes from personal and
family resources. The owner's personal savings account for about 70 percent and loans from
friends and relatives for 18 percent of the investment in micro and small enterprises. The
relative importance of personal savings are the same for all businesses, regardless of the
owners' gender, the business location and type of activity. Only one to two percent of small
and micro-entrepreneurs are reported to have used institutional sources of capital. Many
informal non-trading enterprises are established by those who were originally employed in
formal sector occupations, usually in small Asian firms, where significant transfers of skills to
Kenyan-African enterprises occurred.
2.8    While the low capital requirements and high labor intensity of the informal sector
makes it a promising area for absorbing employment, the high turnover of microenterprises
comprising the majority of informal sector enterprises also make the jobs precarious. In 1990
informal sector enterprises had an average life of three years: about two thirds of all Kenyan
enterprises with less than five employees perish within three years and only about 15% of
enterprises last longer than five years. The life of enterprises was longest in manufacturing,
especially metal fabrication, garages, and construction, and shortest in commerce. This seems
to reflect the difficulties of entering these activities because of the relatively high capital and
skill barriers. The first four years of operation are critical for survival to obtain market
competitiveness, management capacity and skill acquisition. 12/
2.9   Informal sector businesses cater to the rural and urban lower income groups
(consumer goods and services, mostly with low income elasticity). The informal sector
manufacturing firms are also an important support system for the modern sector by providing
domestic inputs and services used by medium and large-scale firms, besides being customers
for many goods produced in the modem sector. These two sectors are expected to have
closer linkages in the future through sub-contracting. Therefore, the growth of such firms is
tied closely to increases in employment and income in other parts of the economy.
B. Constaints to Informal Sector Growth and Development
2.10   The recent Bank Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS) report found that the
private sector, as a whole, suffers from the government's policy failures -lack of
macroeconomic discipline, poor and uneven enforcement of laws and excessive regulations.
The informal sector shares these obstacles, and is further constrained by: lack of worksite
security and basic infrastructure; limited access to formal credit; low skill levels, and inability
to acquire information on marketing and technology opportunities. These factors are again
mutually reinforcing. For example, insecurity of worksites restricts access to credit, leads to
12/    House, W. J., 0. K. Ddara, and D. Mccormiick, 1993. Urban Self-Employment in Kenya. Panacea or Viable
Strategy? World Develonmeu, Vol. 21, No. 7. pp 1205-1223.



8
local authorities' harassment. and creates disincentives for developing and investing in the
worksites. therelw hampering improvements in technology and productivity.
Policy Enviroimient
2.11   T'`  maini constraint to growth and emnployment is the disabling policy environment.
Although the Goverinment has undertaken various actions to remove the constraints hampering
market efficiency, powitciial informal sector entrepreneurs ma)y still face various institutional
barriers to entry. handicaps to survival and growvth, and impedimcnts to transition from the
informal to the formal sector.
2.12   Enterprises in Kenva are required both to register and obtain various licenses. These
requirements may inhibit starting and expanding informal sector enterprises because they
involve complicated processes and high monetary and transaction costs. Under the
Registration of Business Names Act, the registration process involves two stages: first,
compan) registration with the Registrar of Companies in the Office of the Attorney General,
and second, a series of mandatory national registrations with various line ministries. Without
registration, licenses cannot be obtained thereby blocking access to formal credit. Company
registration is automatic but may be cumbersome for informal sector entrepreneurs since it
can only be carried out in Nairobi. While the registration fee is trivial for small-scale
enterprises, it can cost up to four percent share value to larger limited liability companies,
therefore, being a detriment to the growth of such enterprises in the long run. The second
stage requires five separate registrations from four ministries: manufacturers registration and
Bureau of Standards (Ministry of Industry), National Social Security Fund, Occupational
Health (Ministry of Labor), and the Central Bureau of Statistics. While registration
applications are rarely denied, the procedures are complicated and frequent delays are
reported, leading to large transaction costs for quick completion. A Management Information
System (MIS) has been recently introduced in the Attorney General's Office to expedite the
process. The procedure should be consolidated, simplified, and decentralized in order to
allow for registration outside Nairobi.
2.13   There are three main classes of licenses affecting the informal sector: national licenses
required under the Trade Licensing Act (TLA), those under other special Acts, e.g. health
and tourism, etc., and the licenses with local authorities. National licenses are issued
according to the type of business activity: Trade License for manufacturing, General License
for wholesaling, a Retailers License for retail distribution, etc.. Licenses are also issued for
specific localities and product/service lines and any changes in these characteristics require
official revision. Each license is valid onlv for one year and its renewal requires the same
procedures as starting new firms. The license fees vary by activity and location but are not
gradated by the size of the firm, discriminating against small-scale firmis. In 1992, Trade
License fees are Ksh 6,600 in Nairobi and Ksh 3,300 elsewhere. For most informal sector
enterprises these are too high to be paid annually. In addition to national licenses, there is a
range of licenses required by the local authorities. There is no statutory requirement for
harmonization across local authorities in the number of licenses or the level of fees. Since
national level licenses are issued in a manner similar to national licenses, the adverse effect of
local licenses is ntore serious on the informal than the formal sector for the same reasons.
Overall, obtaining a license, in principal, should not be difficult nor too expensive, but, in
practice, it is cumbersome and costly. There are no explicit criteria for refusing to grant a
license and no formal mechanism for appeal, leaving wide scope for harassment and rent
seeking in the licensing process. The Trade Licensing Act should be amended to streamline



9
the registration processes through consolidation of licenses, establishment of a 'one stop
service" for acquisition of licenses, and elimination of the current annual renewal
requirement.
2.14   Another majc- institutional barrier hampering entry to and growth of the informal
sector is found to be access to land for enterprises, in particular land entitlement. Absence of
legal titles contributes to lack of access to credit and to local harassment, and creates
disincentives for developing and investing in the worksites, which thereby prevents
improvements in technology and productivity. In Kenya there are three basic types of land
ownership: government land, trust land, and private land. In urban areas, most of the land is
leased to private individuals or companies by either the government or the responsible local
authority. The government in the recent past allocated almost all the land suitable for housing
and commercial/industrial purposes and accordingly, undeveloped or unallocated public land
that could be available to industry or the informal sector is scarce. Many plots have been
allocated to politically powerful individuals at below mnarket prices who use them for
speculative purposes. Most of these plots have not been developed by the allotees violating
legal requirement to develop within a certain period of time (msostly two years) since the
allotment. The Government therefore would have to facilitate and ensure accessing urban
land to informal sector entrepreneurs (Jua Kalis). Lack of basic infrastructure -access roads,
water and drainage, and electricity in the sites- acts as a barrier to growth of the infonmal
sector, adversely affecting the transformation in technology, e.g. shifting from hand to power
tools. While informal sector entrepreneurs are willing to pay user fees for electricity, running
water, etc., the costs of the initial connection for these services are too great for most
individuals. Consumers are also discouraged to purchase Jua Kali goods due to the
difficulties to reach the sites caused by the absence of access roads and footpaths.
2.15   Although Kenya has a well-developed and flexible system of labor relations,
=relations on redundancy and waae gwidelines may act as a disincentive for the informal
sector to graduate into the formal sector. The redundancy provision constrains firms' flexible
adjustment to economic changes by restricting their autonomy in hiring and firing employees.
While large formal sector firms cite the restrictions on permanent redundancy as their main
problem with the labor laws, informal sector entrepreneurs in general do not comply with
these laws. The need to comply therefore makes it costly for the informal sector to graduate.
It also encourages the formal sector to adopt more capital-intensive technology and thereby
lowering demand for labor in the long-run. Another impediment to achieving a flexible labor
market is wage guidelines, which are currently designed to increase employment by keeping
labor costs down. The guidelines distort the relationship between productivity and pay by: (a)
stipulating that the percentage of wage increase should decrease at higher levels of pay; and
(b) limiting increases in wages for any single industry if such increases would force wages up
in other firms or industries less able to afford them. The first stipulation leads to wage
compression, thereby reducing incentives for workers to obtain more skills. The second
stipulation, which restricts pay disparity across a similar industry or firm, also impedes labor
mobility by limiting the ability of better perfonning firms to offer better pay to attract
workers from other firms. Overall, wage guidelines may lead to underinvestment in training
and thereby lower productivity of labor. 13/ The avoidance of these regulations gives the
informal sector more autonomy, providing it an incentive for remaining informal.
131    For the detailed artalysis, see Chapter 4. CBM, 1993.



1o
Amendment of the redundancy regulation and the remnoval of wage guidelines would improve
efficiency in the labor market and facilitate graduation of the informal sector.
2.16   In addition to these constraints to entty and growth of the informal sector, there are
various other legal, .egulatory barriers which specifically affect the operation of the informal
sector only. For instance, the Vagrancv Act. Chiefs' Authoritv and Public Nuisance Acts are
outdated laws enacted in colonial times to control the Africans. These laws justify local
authorities' harassment of the informal sector and therefore hamper the growth of the sector.
There are a range of laws regulating building standards such as the Local Government
Adoptive Bv-Laws (Building) Order and Public Health Act. While these laws serve different
purposes, they set up building standards unrealistic for Jua Kalis, who are thereby subject to
harassment. Additional outdated or inappropriate laws which impede the sector are the
Electric Power Act. Shop Hours Act. Mombasa Shop Hours Act, etc.. To promote the
sector's development, these laws should be amended.
2.17 In the past, absence of an appropriate Watent system had a negative effect on
technology advancement. The Kenyan patent law provided only for registration of patents
already granted in the United Kingdom. Any Kenyan invention, therefore, had to be first
patented in the United Kingdom. However, many technological innovations which are
relevant to the informal sector and need protection in Kenya could not be patented in the
United Kingdom. Failure to protect patent rights dampened local inventors' incentives. For
example, a research study shows that Kenya Ceramic Jiko (KCJ) (cooking stove), which is a
technological adaptation rather than an innovation, could not be patented in the UK and
neither il Kenya. Lack of patent protection deterred investors initially interested in
commercializing the stove and some of its variants.L4-/
2.18 To solve these problems, the Government enacted the Industrial Property Act in
December, 1989, which revised the patent system more relevant to the Jua Kali sector by
amending the grant and regulations of patents, utility models, and industrial designs. Utility
model means any form, configuration or disposition of some appliance, utensil, tool,
electrical, or electronic circuitry, instume, handicraft mechanism or any part of the same in
order to allow a better functioning or use of the utility. The introduction of utility models, a
type of "petty patents", thus can provide an incentive for the promotion of inventive and
innovative activity and facilitates the acquisition of tec)nology. The information on these
changes, however, has not been effectively disseminated, remaning unknown to the Jua Kali
sector and would require the sensitization using jua kali newsletter or other mass media.
2.19   Access to credit is a major obstacle to the growth of the informal sector. It is
recognized that an increased flow of funds to micro and small scale enterprises will only be
achieved if financing is carried out on a self-sustainable basis. This financing would be
provided at commercial rates of interest, and through domestic funds mobilization and without
subsidies either to the beneficiaries or the providers of such financing. This requires a major
reform in the financial sector, without which partal assistance would not help the informal
sector to obtain accessibility to credit. The proposed project cannot support a segmented
approach to financial intermediation. The project would, however, promote credit
14/   Juma, C. 1989. Inellctual e p .   rights for Jua Kali innovations, in C. Juna and J. B. Ojwang (Eds.),
innov   and Soveaenty: The Pate  late in African Develovmen, Nairobi: African Center for Techology
Stdies.



11
accessibility through provision of infrastructure, which can be used as collateral, and
encourage access to information about credit extension services in general. 151
Training Supply and Skllls Demand
2.20   Supply Side. For the first time since 1988, technical and vocational training are the
primary responsibility of a single ministry: the Ministry of Technical Training and Applied
Technology (MTTAT) which, moreover, is charged with the development of programs
benefitting the informal sector. The creation of the MTTAT and the explicit inclusion of the
Jua Kali or productive informal sector in its portfolio must be recognized as a major step in
increasing the relevance of formal training (The organization and functions of the renamed
Ministry (MRTT&T) are described in Annex 7). However, although public training
institutions provide the largest proportion of technical training in Kenya, 16/ none were
designed specifically to train for employment or self-employment in the informal sector; and
even though some public training institutions are underutilized, they are not equipped nor
sufficiently flexible to provide skills upgrading (technical and managerial) for a changing
workforce.
2.21    The MRTT&T, with donor assistance, has begun to develop Jua Kali related programs
to a_vance indigenous and informal technology and promote private initiatives (see section I
E). Many of these efforts have not been part of a coherent training strategy. Projects have
often been designed and implemented in piecemeal fashion. Central Government funding of
skills training has been very limited, and the potential for appropriations-in-aid needs to be
developed. Institutions like the Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) lack financial autonomy to
reinvest the income they earn from fees and products they sell, thus there is no real incentive
to offer training services in a competitive environment. All told, the VET training share in
total central Government expenditure represents only about 2% of the education budget in
1992 and 2.4% in 1993 respectively. Most of this share goes to the National Polytechnics
and Institutes of Technology, which are not so relevant to the informal sector in contrast to
the lower level institutions (YPs) and which are more likely to produce Jua Kalis (see Annex
6 for enrollment and expenditure statistics in the VET sector.)
2.22   Apart from the informal sector's own entry level apprentice training, very little sldll
upgrading is available for informal sector clients.l7/ The few NGOs that offer technical
training programs have a very limnited outreach. However, NGO's currently account for as
much as 85 percent of the management training offered to the small business sector. A
private sector that provides management and small business trang has only begun to
15/ For more detaled argument, see Growdh and Employment in the Urban Informal Sectr. Chapter S, CEM, 1993.
16/     These institutions comprise three National Polytechnics (NP), seventeen Institutes of Technology (1'), eighteen
Technical Trainmg Insiutes (ITI), three Industl Training Centers (rrC) and over three hundred Youth Polytechnics (YP). In
addition to the public YPs, there are over 200 community supported YPs, as weUl as the Nadonal Youth Servie (NYS), and
about eight Chrisian Indusial Traning Centers (ClTCs).
17/     Yambo, M (1991). Trainmi Needs Assessment of the Kenyan Informal Sector. Report to KD, KREP, KIM, and
MTTAT. See also: The World Dank. Tapping Kenya's Potentil: A Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS). Two
Volumes. (Dec. 17, 1992 - green cover); and Private Sector Development Study: GTZ Report on the Survey of Private Sector
Firms (1992).



12
emnerge. It is estimated that the current annual training output represents about 5 percent of
the identified management training needs. 18/
2.23   The ITCs, however, which train apprentices sponsored by industry under the
Industrial Training Levy system, have most recently opened their doors to the Jua Kali
artisans for evening courses which are both fee paying and subsidized by the Levy. Annual
enrollment for evening courses (estimated at more than 2,000) is higher than for regular
courses (estimated at less than 500). The Jua Kali demand for evening courses at the ITCs,
as well as trade testing, is probably because trade tests are ideal for registering and grading
the practical qualifications of the Jua Kalis. They are also the stepping stone towards
employment in the formal sector. However, the ITCs are primarily oriented to the large and
medium scale industries and the trade test system does not adequately reflect the skills and
technologies found in the informal sector.
2.24   In spite of these developments, the Industrial Training Levy system excludes the
informal sector to a great extent (although Jua Kali trainees increasingly take industrial trade
tests). The proposed project would support a comprehensive study of the Industrial Training
Levy system to improve its access, efficiency and effectiveness. Consequently, the Industrial
Training Act is likely to be amended based on the study's findings. Proposals for extending
the Training Levy system to include informal sector enterprises would be considered at that
time.
2.25   Sklfls Demand. Lack of managerial and entrepreneurial skills and appropriate
technology are invariably cited as major constraints to the competitiveness and growth of
informal sector enterprises. 19/ Skills upgrading and on-the-job training is not readily
available and the vast majority of entrepreneurs seem to rely on informal training (see Table
2, Annex 6 for educational background of Jua Kali entrepreneurs). While infornal training
has its own merits and benefits, the lack of systematic skills development, basic concepts and
theory, and associated technology, is seen as its biggest weakness which may result in
bottlenecks preventing the development of informal sector enterprises.
2.26   One core problem of Kenyan private sector enterprises is the low and declining
productivity. Average labor productivity stagnated during the 1980s, probably as a result of
the poor development of skills among the workforce and the decline in investment in
machinery and equipment. Even in manufacturing, where real investment actually rose in
Kenya, productivity gains during much of the 1980s have been insignificant in comparison to
those averaged by developed and other developing countries.2Q/
2.27   Managerial competence in informal sector enterprises is low. An estimated 4% of
informal sector entrepreneurs' have a commercial education (see Annex 6, Table 2). There is
a need for management skills to organize production lines, handle raw material inventories
and maintain quality control in order to market new products or locally produced items that
are competitive with imported products. Marketing assistance is also required to help create
18/    MRTT&T. Jua lii Development Project: Management Tnuning. Pepared by R. Engelmann (January 1993).
IV     See al project prepaton studies ftuded under the Project. See also: Digolo, Obonyo (1988). Education and
Trainig in Jua ICai Sector. A Challnge to Urban Planners. Urban Center for Research, Nairobi.
201    See Annex 1, Table 1.20



13
new linkages that would broaden marketing options among producers or between providers
and distributors through tenders, sub-contracts, co-operative arrangements or trade
associations.
2.28   The low level of technical skills is another constraint to the growth of the micro- and
small enterprise sector 21/. The most important deficiency is an absence of design and
development skills needed for new products or for modifying existing products. This is
caused partly by lack of technical skill upgrading as well as the low educational levels of Jua
Kali members, which limit their capacity to adapt to skill requirements and new technologies
in a market economy (see Annex 6, Table 2). Moreover, public technical training institutions
are geared to formal, theoretical training and seldom do technical needs assessments of the
informal sector. Thus, courses are not market oriented; and the poor development of
technical skills and management is a potential bottleneck in re-orienting the production
structure towards the dynamic external market. 22/
2.29   In view of limited education and poor literacy, numeracy and problem solving skills,
the informal sector entreprer.eurs and operators generally require flexible and diverse training
programs that are tailored to their particular needs and constraints. Female entrepreneurs,
especially, confront special constraints with respect to training. These include mobility and
time constraints problems: when training programs are centralized, women may not be able or
permitted to leave their families and concomitant responsibilities because of their dual roles or
their obligations as heads of households. Women may be further constrained by lack of
resources and time which places them at a disadvantage in meeting the opportunity costs of
training, such as transportation, time lost, etc.. Finally, women often have lower literacy and
educational levels than men which requires more basic skill training for them.
Technology Development
2.30   Technology -- which consists of equipment, tools, products, processes, materials, and
skills - is a critical factor in stimulating sustained growth in employment and incomes. It can
facilitate innovation in product design, diversification and quality improvement, thus enriching
maarket opportunities. In Kenya, lack of access to appropriate (i.e., labor intensive) and new
technology, as well as limited markets for informal sector products, are key constraints to
survival and growth of micro- and small businesses. Competition in the informal sector is
often intense, particularly when many entrepreneurs produce and sell the same product.
Marketing problems experienced by Jua Kali entrepreneurs are due especially to limited
access to new technology. Jua Kali operators tend to be unfamiliar with new technologies or
have no way of gauging the appropriateness of different technologies. Moreover, beside
management contracts and technology embodied in imported machinery and equipment, little
use is made of the rapidly evolving technology available at low cost in the international
market. There is no service now available to help domestic firms in identifying technological
choices and conducting assessments. 23/
i'    PSDS, pp.96-97, op.cit.
j/     P3DS, p. 97, on.itL
23/    PSDS, p. 29, oR.cit



14
2.31   Constraints to innovation and dissemination of technology in the sector are also linked
to an almost total unavailability of capital and the application of very simple or rudimentary
technology in small production units. Othe- key constraints are the low education levels and
the lack of access of microentrepreneurs to information about available technologies that may
be appropriate for their needs. Besides technological training to improve basic production
skills, micro- and small enterprises must develop a greater capacity for further innovation.
One way is to organize demonstration projects by the public and private sector. The
technological heterogeneity in the small informal sector production units requires different
types of support from specialized institutions. Training on its own will not solve the labor
factor in productive units, which is increasingly interrelated to technological problems as well
as production management and organization ones. Therefore, skills development should be
integrated within a larger context to be more effective and realistic.
2.32   Many existing micro- and small enterprises have obsolete technology and will need
wholesale modernization of their production technologies to compete in the market. This
requires identification of technologies suitable for microenterprises and for increasing the
quality of their products. Experience elsewhere shows that many of the most effective
technological changes for micro-and small enterprises have arisen from the adaptation of
traditionally used tools, equipment, or production methods, rather than the introduction of
newer technologies developed in industrialized countries. Appropriate technologies should
meet the producers' needs and priorities and be cornpatible with labor intensive development
(CEM, 1993), as well as cultural attitudes and infrastructural support, by using the skills and
resources available to them which are also typically less capital and more labor intensive.
2.33   To create opportunities for growth, i.e., new arrivals in the sector and income, the
issue of limited product diversity must be addressed. It can be done through market research,
product diversification, and improvement in quality, design, and marketing. While there may
be little certainty about which new productive areas will emerge, potential areas can be
identified once a mechanism, by which training and technology needs can be rnonitored, is
established under the project. To ensure the use of new technologies, research and
development institutions must involve entrepreneurs themselves throughout the entire process
of research, development and technology dissemination. Technological assistance can help
these enterprises improve the organization and management of their production lines.
2.34   At present, a variety of institutions, notably the National Polytechnics and Kenya
Industrial Research Development Institute (KIRDI), engage in training and research to help
overcome the constraints of manufacturers in adopting, operating, and maintaining new
technologies. To this end, they provide extension services, demonstrations, and follow-up
technical assistance. However, this type of assistance is generally not accessible to micro-
and small business enterprises. Only the Center for Research and Technology (CRT)
provides limited services to Jua Kali artisans.
Institutional Capacity
2.35   As a relatively new ministry, MRTT&T's technical capacity is weak, especially in
terms of its ability to coordinate efforts to tackle the issues mentioned above and the various
challenges which lie ahead, e.g., policy analysis, setting training standards, and facilitating
technical and managerial skill upgrading. While at the central and provincial levels almost all
authorized staff positions have been filled, at district level less than half of the authorized
positions have been filled. This means that the MRTT&T does not yet have a fully effective



15
means of coordinating and monitoring technical training .t the local level. Although there are
a large number of training institutions in the country, their coordination and control is still
below expectations. This problem is aggravated by the lack of consistent and up-to-date
official statistics on numbers of trainers, trainees and even training institutions themselves.
This situation encourages the duplication of effort as well as the underutilization of training
capacity.
2.36   Another issue which remains to be tackled, in the light of the civil service reform and
associated downsizing of the staff, is the definition of functions and duties and the related staff
redeployment and development of the MRTT&T and its regional offices. Further, the
potential overlap between other ministries, paticularly Labour (Manpower Development and
Employment), needs to be addressed. The project would finance an organizational study of
the MRTT&T which would contribute to laying the groundwork for staff redeployment and
development in the context of civil service reform. The Jua Kali Federation/Associations,
which are only at the begimhiing of their institutionalization process, face similar organizational
tasks. The number of registered and well organized, less politicized Jua Kali groups is still
limited but expected to increase substantially under the proposed project in an effort to
develop the private sector and Jua Kali Associations, as well as beneficiary participation. (See
Annex 5 for a detailed review of the Jua Kali Federation/Associations and Annex 4 which
shows the organizational ch.arts of MRTT&T and Jua Kali Associations).
2.37   Finally, the MRTT&T lacks monitoring and evaluation capacity to maintain a
responsive and competitive training system. It lacks information on the types of training
offered in the various institutions, their performance and quality of programs. To obtain such
information would require a management information capacity, in addition to training
program evaluation. While informal sector apprenticeships tend to be demand-driven, surveys
as well as feedback systems are needed to monitor the demand for specific skill upgrading. A
monitoring and management information system would also be useful in terms of providing
guidance and criteria for funding specific training interventions under the proposed project.
This would require greater collaboration with the formal and informa! sector industries and
enterprises, as well as the MRTT&T, the National Industrial Training Council (NITC) and the
National Jua Kali Federation/Associations, not only in determining market oriented training
policy and programs, but also in developing and maintaining standards in skills upgrading and
associated trade testing.
C. The Role of the Public Sector in Informal Sector Development
2.38   In order to realize the potential for employment creation in the informal sector, an
enabling environment for business has to be provided so that the productivity of micro- and
small enterprises can be enhanced. In this process the government assumes an important role
by (a) removing obstacles identified in section II B, and (b) formulating and implementing
appropriate policies for the informal sector as a part of a commitment to private sector
development. Yet, underinvestment in human capital and technology development - caused
in part by insufficient information, the inability of small enterprises to provide training,
economies of scale in training, etc.- may not raise produc-tivity levels to their full potential.
Public sector intervention is required and justified in these areas to correct market failures.
2.39   Training. Informal sector operators tend to receive employer-based skill training
below the social optimum for a number of possible reasons. First, since they cannot afford



16
the absence of wages or lower wages during training, conside. aig their already low wages,
most of the training costs must be borne by employers. 24/ Workers, however, are mobile
and cannot be bound to an enterprise. Thus, if they leave, the benefits from workers' training
cannot be fully captured by the enterprises when high labor turnover and poaching (recruiting
trained workers from other enterprises) exist. This externality is a disincentive for employers
to invest in training. Even when workers are willing to pay for skills training, they find it
difficult to finance training because they lack access to credit in the capital market. Workers
are also likely to have limited information on the availability and quality of training. Second,
informal sector firms may not have a sufficient number of employees requiring the same type
of skills training, or they may lack the technology and equipment required for on-the-job
training. This leads to high overhead costs in organizing training courses and significant
economies of scale, hence underinvestment in training. Informal sector enterprises, because
they produce the same goods, are not likely to cooperate in organizing training since they may
view each other as competitors. Third, informal sector employers are involved in day-to-day
management of their enterprises and therefore have neither the skills nor the time to organize
training for themselves or for trainees. Finally, informal sector enterprises may not even be
aware of their skill needs or the technological alternatives available to them.
2.40   These factors lead to market failure in informal sector training. The public sector
should therefore intervene to equate the social rate of return of such training to its social cost.
The above points show that both social and private rates of return as well as social and private
costs differ: private costs and benefits are those borne by individual workers and enterprises.
To make up for this difference betvreen private and social net benefit, interventive measures
such as subsidy to trainees or technical assistance are indicated. Moreover, if the trarsaction
and information costs associated with training can be lowered by public interventions which
exploit economies of scale, efficiency gains can be realized by measures such as the
organization of training for group of informnal sector workers.
2.41    Technology. Applied research to develop and adapt better quality appropriate for
informal sector entrepreneurs is one of the very few exaumples for pure public goods. 25/
Micro- and small scale entrepreneurs can be innovative, but they do not have the capacity to
conduct their own research and development or to test new technology. Once a technology
has been developed by someone, however, they can easily adopt or copy the technology at
low cost. This "free rider" issue acts as a disincentive against the private sector's
development of technologies to be sold to informal sector enterprises. Public sector
intervention may facilitate the realization of large potential benefits derived from R&D
activities. The public sector can play a catalytic role in upgrading technologies. Coordination
would be required with universities and science and technology institutes. In addition to the
development of new appropriate technology, information on existing technology available
domestically and abroad should be disseminated through exhibitions, trade fairs and study
tours.
24/     Note that a worker's total training costs include the opportunity costs, i.e., value of time of training time, as well as
direct and indirect costs.
/       Pure public goods are characterized by zero marginal costs of provision to an additional user once they have been
produced and high exclusion costs of preventing people from using the gooc- without paying for them. The latter characteristic
is known as the 'free-rider problem'.



17
2.42   Infrastructure. The public sector has an important role to play in the provision of
secure worksites and basic infrastructure for informal sector enterprises. While these
enterprises are willing to pay user fees for running water, electricity, telephone, etc. the
connection costs for these services are too high for some individuals. The public sector can
generate economy of scale for the connection of utilities and the construction of sheds by
organizing groups of informal enterprises. Insecurity of the worksites also discourage
investing in infrastructure. Once public sector intervention reduces the costs associated with
investing in infrastructure and uncertainty through creating an enabling environment, informal
sector entrepreneurs themselves or private sector investors will be willing to invest in
infrastructure for the informal sector. Thus, in the future public sector intervention may be
reduced to the provision of techni_al assistance and supervision.
2.43   Provision of training and infrastructure for informal enterprises can also respond to
equity concerns. Considering that the informal sector constitutes the poor segment of the
society, public interventions can be justified by boosting its income, thus allowing the
effective demand for basic human needs to increase.
2.44 Institutional Capacity. Absence of updated data and statistics on the activities and
needs of the informal sector, training institutions, their quality, etc. contribute to
inefficiencies. While the potential benefits derived from the generation and dissemination of
information are large, the market may fail to provide socially optimal levels of information
since the benefits do not accrue to the private sector, at least in the initial stage. In addition,
absence of standards and uniform criteria for trade testing and certification discourages
workers' mobility. Overall, the dissemination of information on job availability and
characteristics, and workers' quality (through the improvement of trade tests) will ease job
search time and facilitate the job matching process and thus reduce these costs for both
employees and employers.
2.45   In principle, cost recovery should be possible, but should not push the participants'
demiand for services below the socially optimal level. Public sector intervention does not
mean Government intervention. Such services can be contracted out or delivered through
NGOs and private sector providers. The government can still play a facilitating and catalytic
role through policy-making, implementing and supervision. Since the public sector should be
responsive to the needs of the informal sector, beneficiary involvement is essential.
D. Government Sectoral Policies and Objectives
2.46   The Government recognizes the importance of the informal sector in employment
creation, income distribution, and rural-urban balance as spelled out in several key sectoral
policy papers. Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, Economic Management for Renewed Growth
highlighted the informal and small-scale enterprises as a primary vehicle for social and
economic development. These sentiments are reflected in the Sixth National Development
Plan. 1989-93, the first to give prominence to the informal sector. Redressing the neglect of
the informal sector in past economic planning, it is proposed that the Government act as a
catalyst and a facilitator to promote the informal sector, leaving a major role for the private
sector. Further emphasis on the importance of informal sector enterprises was given by the
Presidential Committee on Employment in the report, Development and Emplovment in
Kenya: A Strategy for the Transformation of the Economy (the "Ndegwa Report"). This
discusses, inter alia, the strategic performance of the informal sector as a source of income



18
and employment for the majority of labor market entrants between now and the year 2000.
Based on these discussions, Sessional Paper No. 2 of 1992, Small Enterprise and Jua Kali
Development in Kenya sets a comprehensive policy framework which would enhance: (a)
direct assistance to individual entrepreneurs and small scale enterprises; (b) the transition of
micro and small scale enterprises into medium size enterprises; (c} access to credit for the
informal sector; (d) access to information on market and appropriate technologies; and, (e) an
enabling policy environment through redressing licensing, tax, security of worksite and other
regulatory restrictions on informal sector activities.
2.47   The 1992 Sessional Paper foresees a major role for MRTT&T in the development of
the informal enterprise sector. It would develop and implement innovative skill upgrading
programs promoting self-employment and entrepreneurship as well as rural business centers
for information dissemination, research and product development. To some extent, Small
Business Centers (SBC) have been established and attached to the training institutions and Jua
Kali Associations and other donor sponsored entrepreneurship education projects. Finally,
since 1993, MRTT&T's mission includes Jua Kali mobilization, informal sector marketing
and publicity, applied technology, research and development services. However, in order to
develop the full potential of the sector more rapidly, actions are required to implement
policies in the areas of training and technology, the regulatory framework and finance. This
would be done on the basis of greater private sector involvement and cost sharing.
2.48 The proposed project would be an important long term investment in developing both
industrial technology and technical/managerial training in Kenya. Good Government policies
and strong private sector support institutions are the basic premise of the proposed project.
For this reason, MRTT&T would work directly with strategic organizations in whatever
sector they may be: government, non-profit or for profit. In each of the project areas,
MRTT&T has identified private and public sector institutions that could respond to informal
sector needs and initiatives. The Govermnent would provide support services where it is in a
better position to do so, such as establishing an enabling policy and institutional environment.
Institutional strengthening activities initiated under the project, such as the Training and
Employment Fund, would provide a mechanism by which support from other donors could be
channeled to training and employment promotion activities in both public and private sector
institutions. Initially, the Government intends to offer financial assistance on a cost recovery
basis to encourage public and private sector training institutions and employers to respond to
informal sector training and technology development needs. Although such funds are at
present established and maitained through a levy on employers' payroll, this would not be a
realistic expectation for the informal sector until the current industrial training levy system is
modernized. The study and policy actions proposed under this Project will help fulfill this
requirement.
E. Activities of Other Major Donors
2.49 A number of donor agencies are currently active in supporting projects in technical
and vocational training directly benefitting the Jua Kali sector. However, as the examples of
donor projects illustrate, the investments are not guided by a coherent training policy.
Donors tend to agree that a comprehensive training policy is needed to justify further
investments. It should be noted, however, that donor support, experience and lessons learned
in the training sector informed the preparation of the proposed project.



t                       19
2.50 DANIDA has been a major donor supporting craft level technical training and
informal sector/Jua Kali under the following programs: Industrial Training Program that has
established three Industrial Training Centres (Kisumu, Nairobi and Mombasa: the provision of
equipment, Technical Assistance, staff development and support to the Directorate of
Industrial Training (DIT) that manages the Industrial Training Levy management. DANIDA
is currently supporting programs for computer installation and a study on a possible
Management Information System aimed at revamping the DIT and the management of
data/information for the Industrial Training Levy. In addition, DANIDA will support the
three proposed policy studies on the trade testing system and Industrial Training Levy and
future management and utilization of the Levy funds. DANIDA has, in the past, supported
artisan and craft training programs at the Istitutes of Technology (former Harambee Institutes
of Technology) and Youth Polytechnics, as well as a pilot a Youth Polytechnics/Jua Kali
linkage program.
2.51  The Federal Republic Of Germany through the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ),
German Volunteer Service (GVS) and the Friedrich Ebert Foundation supports the Jua Kali
programs, e.g., Infrastructure Program and the Vocational Training Program in the Institutes
of Technology. The Friedrich Ebert Foundation supported the Jua Kali Federation and
provides technical assistance and training of Jua Kali Federation's comnmittee members on
organizational structures, legal issues, program planning, management, markedng, credit,
product development, members promotion, Government and donors relations (see Annex 5).
In addition, the Foundation has supported, through loans and credit guarantee programs
monitored by the Small Enterprise Finance Company (SEFCO), the promotion of micro- and
small enterprises. The Belgium Government has also provided some support to the
development of Jua Kali infrastructure and training.
2.52 USAID has provided funds to the Kenya Rural Enterprise Program (K-REP), a
Kenyan NGO to undertake lending to small enterprises through commercial banks, and also to
give loans and technical assistance to other small enterprises development institutions.
USAID also supports K-MAP with fimds to provide business counselling to their on business
planning, book keeping, marketing etc. as weil as training in business management.
2.53   UNDP and ILO are supporting Jua Kali programs in the area of Entrepreneurship
Education in Technical Training Institutions and Youth Training and Employment Creation.
UNDP and UNIDO are supporting training for Jua Kalis, e.g., by establishing a National Jua
Kali Demonstration and Training Centre in Nairobi (Kariobangi) and support to Jua Kali
Women Textile Project at the Kenya Textile Training Institute in Nairobi with a branch at
Kimaffii IT in Nyeri.
2.54 ODA has supported the Kenya and Mombasa Polytechnics Project which over the
years provided the two national polytechnics with facilities, equipment, technical assistance
and staff training for craft and technician programs. Currently, ODA is undertakdng further
strengthening of the Management Information System by providing information technology
equipment to cover also the training needs, technical assistance, computer/development
officers and staff training. In addition, ODA has, in the past, funded the provision of training
packages, resource personnel and materials for the training of Jua Kalis at the CRT in tools
making and fabrication.



20
F. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
2.55   A 1988 World Bank document on "Employment and Growth" recommended that
training opportunities be increased for the members of the labor force. On-the-job training
would be either provided through apprenticeship or industrial attachment or at a public or
private institution. Moreover, it was recommended that (a) policy-making focus more on the
provision of an appropriate institutional framework including an incentive system that would
enhance the scope for on-the-job training and skill development; (b) more attention be paid to
the traditional ways of skill acquisition like apprenticeship and family labor and how these
processes could be improved; and (c) new forms of delivering training and testing, i.e., post-
training and follow-up services, be explored. The B ink Report "Kenya Human Resources:
Improving Quality and Access" (1991) reconumends more cost sharing and cost-effective
measures in the use of educational facilities, equipment, materials and personnel. These
themes are taken up in the Bank's Country Economic Memorandum on Increasing
Employment Growth in Kenya (1993) and are addressed under the proposed project.26/
The CEM puts a particular emphasis on the capability and flexibility of the training system
which can respond to the skill needs of employers, including the informal sector workers. To
this end, more involvement of employers is suggested in determining the content and
provision of training and share in the costs. Its specific recommendations are completely
aligned with this project.
2.56 Informal Sector Training. Since 1966, since 1966, IDA's Kenya portfolio
comprised six Education Projects, four of which involved expansion of vocational and
technical education in the formal system. Informal sector training was never the main focus,
although it derived some benefits from these investments. The main focus of these
investments was employment training through the establishment of new technical schools and
institutes. More specifically, the First Education Project (Cr. 93-KE) supported the
constuction of two technical schools and assisted secondary schools with additional machinery
and teaching equipment to broaden their curricula with more practical subjects. While the
physical facilities were completed, although with a very large cost overrun, the technical
secondary school system was handicapped by weak programs due to a shortage of technically
qualified teachers. The Curriculum Development Center prepared technical education syllabi
but failed to produce pupil learning materials. The new secondary technical school suffered
from a frequent turnover of teachers including the headmaster, low standards and poor
management. In other project schools, the enrollment targets were not met and workshop
facilities were underutilized. Finally, some equipment supplied to vocational schools under
the Credit was seldom used or not at all due to the lack of qualified teachers or of parts for
foreign-supplied machines; the workshops were also too small and poorly equipped for the
newly introduced courses (see PPAR, 1974).
2.57   The Second Educadon Project (Cr. 185-KE) included assistance for the development
of agricultural education and training and the construction of one new secondary technical
school and the expansion and equipment of five secondary technical schools and one technical
institute. The main handicap was lack of teachers with industrial experience and pedagogical
training. Low salaries provided very little incentive for people with appropriate experience to
N     Wodmd Bank. Kenya-Humn Resources: Improving Quality and Access. Sector Report (1991). Employnent and
Growth in Kenya. Country Econoic Memorandum (1988).



X                           l21
accept a teaching post in a technical school. Expected employment targets for technical
school graduates were not realized and only marginallv better graduates were produiced than
graduates of the general secondary schools. About fifty percent of technical school graduates
did not readily find employment (see PCR. 1978 and PPAR, i979?.
2.58   The Fourth Education Project (Cr. 797-KE) provided support for a pilot project aimed
at improving equity in vocational education. 30 youth polytechnics (YP1s). originally known
as village polytechnics or craft training centers, were established and provided with equipnment
and small handtools. To encourage national coordination for thle YPs. the projccl assisted in
the expansion of the Karen Center for Research and Training (CRT). Poor communiication
among Government agencies and lack of clear Governmenit policy anid commiiiiitlmienit led to
very poor execution of this component. There were delays in the supply of' equipmelnt to the
YPs. The CRT, while well equipped, was virtually unutilized due to lack of staff as well as
clear policy while government direction and enthusiasmii for thlis institution,. whose role *vis-a-
vis the YPs, was not even clear (see PCR, 1985 and PPAR, 1987).
2.59   The Fifth Education Project (Cr. 1107-KE) provided assistance for training skilled
workers in the industrial sector through the expansion of Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) in
Kisumu and Mombasa. Although it is too early to have a full evaluation. there were strong
indications that provision of extensions to two ITCs had a positive impact on human resources
development through graduating technicians much in demand in the labor market (see PCR,
1992). However, there seems to be underutilization of capacity at both institutions.
2.60   In sum, although vocational investments have been high, they have not been part of a
broader strategy to address such important issues as relevance, cost efficiency, self-financing
and sustainability. This has resulted in a mismatch between training supply and skill demand,
especially by informal sector operators. underutilization of training capacity and an overall
weak financial position of the VET system. Other countries also faced similar constraints in
their training systems which has led to the preparation of a new Bank VET policy paper and
which calls for more training in the private sector, measures to improve the responsiveness
and efficiency of public training, and the development of a longer-term strategy for the
evolution of the Government's role in training.
2.61 Infrastructure development. IDA has provided two credits relevant to the proposed
infrastructure component: Nairobi Site and Service Project (Credit 543-KE) and Small-Scale
Industry Project (Credit 750-KE). Implementation of the first Credit suffered from disputes
over building and infrastructure standards, i.e., too rigid bye-laws which caused long delays.
Cost recovery fell short of its objectives. There were delays in establishing the management
unit and the project was extended from 5 to 7 1/2 years. The second Credit faced more
severe problems. Kenya Industrial Estates failed to implement the project due to the lack of
appropriate staff. They failed to collect bad debts and establish proper cooperation with its
field operators. Thus, only 50% of the Credit was utilized; only one of the eight sites
suggestet f^r development was used, feasibility stuaies on these sites being rejected by the
Bank. To ensure that the defects of the above mentioned Credits not be repeated, the
proposed infrastructure component would be experimental in terms of the method for
construction and ownership. It would be implemented on a pilot basis, ensuring proper
supervision and evaluation.



22
G. Rationale for IDA Assistance
2.62   The Bank's country strategy for Kenya identifies the dual imperative of rapid
employment creation and poverty alleviation as its main objectives. This strategy would entail
bolder implementation of an appropriate policy agenda given the prospects of large-scale
unemployment and substantial increases in the numbers of Kenyans living in absolute poverty.
Within this Bank/IDA framework of poverty alleviation, the current dialogue with the GOK
also reinforces the Government's plans to promote training and employment opportunities in
the informal sector, especially for the poor and marginal segments of society. In this context,
the proposed project responds directly to the Ndegwa report recommendation for enhancing
technology transfer and strengthening skills upgrading in the informal sector as a means to
improve the overall efficiency and productivity of Jua Kali operations at the enterprise level.
The "demand driven" approach, linking in-service/on-the-job training for existing
entrepreneurs and apprentices more closely to employment opportunities and improved
productivity, is a central feature of the proposed project. This approach also corresponds to
the new Bank Policy on Vocational and Technical Education. In fact, the proposed project
would provide an early opportunity to implement this new policy. Last but not least, Lhis
project corresponds directly to the Bank's strategy for the Africa region, 27/ ,hich
emphasizes the dynamism and importance the informal sector plays in Africasn economies. It
aims at developing the informal sector by promoting access to technology related training and
institutional support within the framework of a more favorable policy environment.
27/    E. K. Jaycox (February 1993). Africa: From Stagnation to Recovery, World Bank, Washington, DC.



23
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
3.1   The long term aims of the project are to enhance entrepreneurial development in the
private sector and, more specifically, reduce constraints to employment promotion and income
enhancement in the micro- and small enterprise (informal) sector in Kenya. The project
would target manufacturing enterprises with 1-50 workers and make provision for increasing
women's representation in this non-traditional sector, principally in major urban and peri-
urban areas of Kenya.
3.2   To accomplish the above, the project has three main components designed to: (a)
develop and implement policies enabling the entrepreneurial environment; (b) provide access
to skill training and appropriate technology for micro- and small enterprises and facilitate
technological innovation in the sector; and, (c) improve the operational and managerial
capacity of institutions and programs that support the sector's development. MRTT&T would
use private sector contractors, training and research institutions, Jua Kali Associations and
employers as the primary agents to promote and implement the proposed project.
B. Policy Actions
3.3    As the first step to foster an enabling policy environment for the informal sector,
various barriers to entry, operation and exit would be removed or simplified, e.g.,
registration, licensing, accessing urban land to Jua Kali operators, building standards, and
other outdated business regulatory laws. The Vagrancy, Nuisance and Chiefs Authority Acts
are already under review by the Commission on Criminal and Penal Procedures. Other
policies, which especially affect the broader economy, may be addressed through the PFP
(Policy Framework Paper) and future private sector reform and financial sector adjustment
operations. As for tlhe patent system, the Industrial Property Act was already erActed in
December, 1989 to make it more relevant to the Jua Kali sector by introducing utility
models, a type of "petty patents". While Annex 2 provides a comprehensive list of the legal
and regulatory constraints, the proposed Letter of Informal Sector Policy (LISP) and time
bound Action Plan (Annex 3) indicates the policies to be addressed under the proposed
project. As a condition prior to negotiation the GOK provided a Draft Letter of Informal
Sector Policy and Time-bound Action Plan (para. 6.2(a)). As a condition of Board
presentation. the GOK would provide a signed Letter of Informal Sector Policy and Time-
Bound Action Plan (para. 6.4(a)). As a condition of Disbursement on the civil works and
building materials Drocurement categories of the infrastructure component. the GOK would
submit the following draft bills to Parliament. according to the Letter of Informal Sector
Policy and Action Plan: the Registration of Business Names Act. the Trade Licensing Act. the
Local Government Adoptive By-Laws (building standards). and the Electric Power Act, as
well as the Vagrancv. Nuisance. and Chief's Authority Acts. (para. 6.6(a)).
3.4   To assist in the development of a long-term National Training Strategy more
responsive to productive sector training needs, the Government would prepare an Action Plan
based on (i) an assessment of the Ind"lstrial Training Levy scheme, and (ii) an evaluation of
the trade test and certification system, and (iii) a policy review process for skills training.
These would result in a draft National Training Strategy elaborating, among others, future
objectives, organization and management, as well as financing and content (institutions,



t                         24
curricula and certification) of the future training systems. The further development and
implementation of a National Training Strategy would be an outcome of the Institutional
Development Component of the project under the Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation
sub-component. Both policy analysis capacity and the implementation of the Project Training
Fund would facilitate project sustainability and longer term sectoral development. For
instance, the Project Training Fund design provides a model of a demand driven skill training
system embodying the principles proposed for the National Training Strategy: (a) relevance
(demand-driven), (b) quality and efficiency, and (c) financial sustainability (i.e., budget
allocation would be competitive and gradually shift from subsidy to cost sharing) allowing
training institutions more autonomy for financing. There would be enhanced diversification
and balance among private and public training provision and a new partnership between the
public and private sector guaranteeing the full participation for Jua Kali entrepreneurs and
employees (as individuals and througn their associations) in training and technology policy
and program decisions and subsequent implementation.
3.5   The Industrial Levy study would recommend how to make the levy system financially
sustainable and more responsive to the skill upgrading needs of productive sectors. The trade
test review would suggest ways to improve the standards and quality of skill training and
attendant certification and legitimization. The recommendations would become part of a
long-term National Training Strategy (See Annex 3 and Action Plan). As a condition prior to
negotiations the GOK provided terms of reference for the recruitment of external auditors to
audit the FY 93 Training Levy Funds (para. 6.2(c)). At negotiationis, the GOK provided
assurances that an assessment of the National Industrial Training Levy system and t_e trade
testing and certification system would be undertaken and a detailed Action Plan for
modemnizing these. including amendment of relevant acts if necess_a, would be drafted by
AuguLst 30. 1995. A policy review process for skills training and a draft National Training
Strategy would be cmmleted by December 30, 1995 (para. 6.3(a)). As a condition of Board
Presentation. the G0K would nrovide tender documents and advertisemnent for the recruitmnent
of external auditors to audit the FY 93 Training Levy Funds (para. 6.4(b)). As a condition of
credit effectiveness, the GOK would emloy externa auditors to audit the FY 93 Training
Levy Funds and provide their comnleted audit reports with recommended remedies for the FY
93 TrndninI Levy Funds (para. 6.5(a)).
C. Project Description
3.6   The following section describes the three investment components of the proposed
project and provides details of their different sub-components that address the various
constraints (such as market failures) to micro- and small enterprise development.
Component 1. Micro- and Small Enterpnse Traimne Fund (US$11.5 million)
3.7   This component consists of two sub-components to provide incentives for skill
upgrading and technology development for micro- and small enterprises and for diversifying
and improving public and private sector training capacity, including enterprise-based training.
Up to 60,000 informal sector entrepreneurs and workers, representing about 50 percent of the
manufacturing sector, would benefit from the services provided under this component (see
para.5.3).



1                         25
3.8    The project would establish a Micro- and Small Enterprise Training Fund and make a
contribution of US$11.5 million to its funding. By combining two competitive approaches to
funding training - a voucher program and a contract training scheme -- the Fund
addresses specific financial and quality issues related to reorienting the training system to a
demand-driven system. The voucher program would introduce consumer choice, enabling Jua
Kalis to purchase the training they want. Since the vouchers would be distributed among
entrepreneurs with low incomes, they would presumably benefit by a net real income increase
in the future. The contract scheme would encourage public and private institutions to provide
relevant (i.e., market- and skill driven) training to infonral sector clients on a competitive
basis. Similar approaches have been used effectively to promote market and employer
incentives to develop (upgrade) worker skills and production technologies in other countries,
notably in the Philippines and Singapore. 28/ Experience with the Singapore Skills
Development Fund provides evidence that vouchers can provide micro and small enterprises
with incentives to purchase training which they normally do not do.
3.9    The Project Training Fund would develop financing mechanisms (i.e.. a Jua Kali
training fund) as well as experience and lessons to be incorporated in the modernization of the
Industrial Training Levy scheme and thus enable project sustainability. This process is likely
to involve consolidation and privatization of training, facilitating a larger role for the privatc
sector and enterprises in skills training, especially regarding training facilities and cost
sharing, and improving mechanisms linking the Government, industry and workers. Training
programs would be convenient, reasonably priced and of limited duration. Trainers would be
familiar with non-formal and trade specific training approaches. To make economic sense
training would improve existing productive activity.29/
3.10   This component would be gender sensitive in several ways: training sub-components
would be flexible and targeted and make provision for increasing women's representation in
the lucrative manufacturing sector. Particular attention would be paid to women's access to
skills training and technology suitable for upgrading their enterprises or for bringing them into
thie sector. For instance, depending on the training sub-component, between 10% and 50% of
basic, entry-level technical skill training should be targeted to women's entry into this sector.
To this end, several vouchers could be awarded to one individual to cover longer-term
enterprise-based attachments. In order to sensitize female secondary school students to enter
non-traditional technical fields of productive work, this component would support ongoing
outreach efforts of the Training and Gender units both at the MRTT&T and Jua Kali
Federation through the inclusion of gender awareness in the proposed staff development
programs, especially regarding leadership and entrepreneurship training and training materials
development.
3.11   The Training Fund would be governed by a Project Steering Committee (a
government-private sector partnership between MRTT&T and the Jua Kali
Federation/Associations). The Training and Gender Unit (TGU) of the Directorate of Applied
Technology (DAT), MRTT&T in conjunction with the Jua Kali Federation and local
28/    Vocadonal Training on the Threshold of the 1990s. Volume I and H. PHREE Background Paper Series 91/35. The
Wodd Bank (Febuary, 1991). See also draft report on Policy Incentives for Employer-Based Training by Sachi Takeda (World
Bank EA3PH, June, 1992); Vocational Training Project: Philippines. SAR 3750b-PH, 1982.
29/    Skills for Productivity. Vocational Education and Training in Developing Countries.
John Middleton, Adrian Ziderman, Arvil van Adams. A World Bank Book, 1993.



t                         26
Associations would coordinate Fund management contracts. This process would be facilitated
by parallel staff development in such areas as training program management and training
needs assessment. The contract training scheme sub-projects would be executed by public or
private institutions which must compete for Fund resources under pre-defined qualifiwation
and selection criteria. For the voucher program, the local Jua Kali Associations would act as
match-making brokers with technical support from contractors. The contractor would provide
capacity building of the local Jua Kali Associations until which point in time they can fully
undertake implementation responsibility. (See Annex 9 for a detailed description of the
Training Fund programs as well as inplementation guidelines and modalities). As a condition
of credit effectiveness the GOK woul'- obtain Cabinet Approval for the establishment of the
Project Training Fund (para. 6.5(b)).
Sub-component la: Training Voucher Program (US$6.1 million)
3.12 The Fund would support the financing of a demand driven voucher program to pay
for short-term skill upgrading courses and enterprise-based training attachmnents benefiting
entrepreneurs and artisans. Local Jua Kali Associations would manage the program under the
supervision of MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation. Training services would be selected by the
beneficiaries themselves. Association members (individuals or groups) would purchase the
skill training in demand wherever available. The voucher program would selectively p-omote
sub-projects that emphasize methods of improving micro-and small enterprise product-; ity
through training and upgrading in areas such as technical skills, business management skills,
product design and diversification, product marketing, standards application and adaptation,
sub-contracting, and choice and use of appropriate technologies. Priority would be given to
training master craftsmen who could then improve both the informal apprenticeship system
and product development. Other criteria for selection in the voucher program would be the
Jua Kali operator's business background as well as the growth potential of the particular
trade. The number of vouchers granted annually to Jua Kali Associations is also determined
by the criteria for sub-project selection outlined in Annex 9.
3.13   The voucher program aims to distribute up to 30,000 vouchers, on average 6,000 per
year, at a unit cost (per voucher) of US$150 for management training (total 10,000 vouchers)
and US$200 for technical skill upgrading (total 20,000 vouchers), including trade testing II or
I. A typical skill upgrading course would last about 2 to 6 weeks (including enterprise-based,
evening, on-site and residential courses). Vouchers would be used for public and private
sector institutions and enterprises that provide access to skill upgrading and technology
developmnent to the micro- and small enterprise sector. Since vouchers give clients the
purchasing power to select among private or public institutions of their choice, they have a
built-in price mechanism (pricing of the end product). This approach to skill upgrading is
particularly useful to prevent oversupply of any one type of training.
3.14   Under the voucher program, cost-sharing is expected from the beneficiaries in terns
of opportunity costs incurred by the training (i.e., lost income, transport and supplies). In the
initial stage, the Training Fund would finance ninety percent of the voucher and remaining ten
percent by the trainees, in order to develop the program and stimulate demand for skill
upgrading among micro- and small enterprise entrepreneurs and employees, many of whom
are marginalized poor urban workers. However, at a later stage the Jua Kali Associations
and/or indiviudal artisans would be eventually expected to contribute to the full cost of the
training program to ensure its sustainability. Training modalities would be flexible (i.e., easy
access through outreach programs), in order to minimize opportnity costs.



1                        27
Sub-component lb: Contract Training Scheme (US$S.4 million)
3.15   The Training Fund would support the financing of a supply-side training contracts
scheme to approved public and private sector training providers on a competitive basis.
Sub-projects would be eligible for funding which: respond to the relevant skill requirements
of Jua Kalis, both technical and management skills, and are gender-sensitive, i.e., competitive
in skill areas where women are actively involved and pro-active in skill areas where they are
underrepresented. The upgrading of the training capability of contractors, such as training of
trainers would also be included in any given training contract. Special emphasis would be
placed on support to private sector enterprise-based training (a target floor of up to 50% of
the contract awards) in an effort to improve the capacity el both public and private training
institutions through equal opportunity as well as competitiveness. Employers who provide on-
site skill upgrading can receive reimbursement of up to 100 percent (within approved ceilings)
for upgrading training equipment related to skills upgrading and technology development.
3.16   The contract scheme aims to award up to 1,500 training contracts for various courses
and services on a competitive basis. An average of 300 sub-projects are expected to be
submittod to the Fund annually, ranging from enterprise-based skill upgrading to advanced
tailor-made courses. Group-based training would comprise 10-15 trainees each for technical
training and 15-25 trainees each for management training. A total of 30,000 entrepreneurs
and employees are expected to benefit from contract training.
3.17   As a partial cost recovery strategy, beneficiaries are expected to pay minimal training
fees, similar to those currently charged by the ITCs to Jua Kali artisans. Once the training
schemes have proven themselves, flexible but competitive fee paying arrangements would be
worked out between the Jua Kali Associations, their members and the training institutions (in
consultation with PTTOs/YTOs). The underlying assumption of this approach is that
demanding fees (even non-economic ones) for services provides an indication that the services
are of value. Therefore, it can be expected that training fees would adjust to demand if
information about costs and training outcomes is available to clients. In this way, training
institutions can be held accountable for price and quality of training available in the market
place. Contracts would be based on the number of trainees trained and active recruitment of
women. They would be limited to maximum amounts of money (i.e., US$3,600 average
amount per contract/course. However, cumulative financing for any given enterprise or
institution would be determined by market forces and quality indicators, given the competitive
basis of the skill upgrading schemes.
3.18   To ensure demand responsiveness, special studies/surveys would be undertaken in the
Jua Kali Federation/Associations network (presently about 400 associations representing some
80,000 enterprises and workers) to assess skill upgrading needs of managers and operators,
and production/skill specialization and capability of potential enterprises as training providers.
Training institutions would need to be identified for those manufacturing sub-sectors where
women are now represented, such as textiles and foods. The well-known and established
Kenyan women's enterprises, especially in textiles, should be considered in identifying and
selecting enterprise-based training sites. This data base would be utilized to create directories
anu data bases for efficient information sharing and match-making between training seekers
and providers. The Training Units (MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation/Associations) would
maintain directories of public and private training providers, including enterprises, and would
advise training institutions and enterprises in the preparation of project proposals and, where
necessary, advise in their initial execution.



t                         28
3.19  The Training and Gender Unit (TGU) would prepare terms of reference and contracts
required for sub-project execution and ensure that sub-project applications submitted to the
TGU meet allocation criteria, such as training and technology needs identified by the
appropriate unit to be established at MRTT&T/PDU. The institution's capacity to deliver the
proposed services and maintain auditable accounts should be clearly evident. Training
methods should be suitable to an adult population. Training providers would have to be open
to the notion of training women and making any necessary modifications in the design and
implementation of courses in areas of manufacturing where few women currently participate.
Institutions should be willing to establish links with Jua Kali associations and offer acceptable,
affordable and equitable skill improvement courses to those Jua Kalis nearest the institutions.
In the case of enterprise-based training, to prevent financing of productive work that would
have taken place in any event, eligibilit.1 criteria would be clearly spelled out and closely
monitored (see Annex 9).
Comnolent 2. Technoloe Development and Pflot Infrasructure (US$5.6 milHon)
3.20 This component comprises two sub-components: (i) a Technology
Information/Innovation and Research Program would stimulate information exchange and
innovation in product development through assistance to a technology information clearing
function, technology study tours, and marketing exhibitions; and a small pilot program of
adaptive technology research grants, awarded on a competitive basis, to promote the
indigenous capacity for the research, design, and commercialization of new products and
production technologies for the informal sector. These programs would be implemented by
the Jua Kali Federation/Associations and other privately contracted organizations; and (ii) an
Infrastucture Development program would supply Jua Kalis with secure worksites and access
to appropriate infrastructure, e.g. power, water, sanitation, refuse collecdon and roads.
Development would take place on an experimental/pilot basis on sites in Kisumu and
Mombasa where land has already been secured for Jua Kali from local authorities. Equitable
access to these benefits would be closely monitored through collecting appropriate monitoring
and evaluation data (see Annex 17).
Sub-Component 2a Techology Infonnation/Innovation and Research Program (US$2.8
milion)
3.21 This sub-component would provide the necessary support to facilitate innovation in the
informal sector in product design and quality improvement. The target group for this
component would be owner-managers of micro- and small enterprises in existence for over
five years, who have basic technological experience and are likely to be innovators. The
proposed activities facilitate this requirement with a view to stimulating significant sustained
growth in employment and incomes within the sector.
3.22   A product and processes clearing function as well as a marketing or exhibitions
outreach p- gram would be established to gather and dissemnnate information on new products
and prodi .ion technologies to informal sector entrepreneurs through publications,
advertisements, exhibitions, workshops, and other appropriate media. Innovation in product
development would be stimulated through demonstration, information exchanges, and
participation in trade and technology fairs, and training. The proposed project would assist in
the development of the program through the provision of equipment, training, and technical
assistance (see Annex 14).



t                       29
3.23   About 200 technology study visits for selected innovator/entrepreneurs to East and
South Asia and Africa would be sponsored. These visits would be organized for promising
Jua Kali manufacturers and last up to 30 days. The visits could also include short attachments
with foreign enterprises. In addition to providing for the transportation, per diem, and related
program operating costs, the project would provide a technology procurement allowance of up
to $300 per participant to purchase a new piece of equipment/technology for utilization in
Kenya, while the costs exceeding this amount would be paid by the participant. There would
be no import tax duties on this euqipment up to KSH. 20 million in value. The participants
would be required to submit reports of the study visit upon the completion of their visits and
to attend technology and marketing exhibiitons at least once to share their experiences. They
also may be required to participate in the training activities from time to time. This program
would be contracted out to matchmaker/brokers utilizing ICB procurement procedures. The
program would be closely monitored to allow for reallocation of funds depending on actual
performance and actual verifiable expenses.
3.24   Technology and marketing exhibitions would have marketing and technology exchange
functions somewhat like the Annual Canton Trade Fair. Provision would be made through
-Ile project to organize and finance encounters among Jua Kali from various corners of Kenya
on a semi-annual basis in rotating locations, to exhibit and market their products and
production technologies. The four main interest groups involved in such exhibitions will be:
entrepreneurs-innovators, potential buyers/sub-contractors, equipment and raw material
suppliers, and other Jua Kali owner-managers. While the public will be welcome on an
admission (cost recovery fee basis), the fair will be centered around technology exchange
opportunity identification and trade. The project would finance rental and preparation of
exhibition facilities, information and promotion of the fair, workshops and other semi-formal
exchanges during the fair, and selected assistance to transport the most needy/worthy
entrepreneur/innovators and their wares. As the exhibitions gradually shape during the
project implementation period, rental of exhibition booths, and other cost-sharing measures
would be progressively implemented so as to eventually put the exhibitions on a self-financing
basis.
3.25   The project would finance about 50 applied technology research grants over the five
year project period, on a competitive basis, to promote the design, development and
commercialization of new products and production technologies for the micro- and small
enterprise sector and thereby leverage and develop the existing applied technology research
capacity in Kenya. A number of private and public research institutions/individuals such as
the mechanical engineering department at the Mombasa Polytechnic, the Center for Applied
Technology at Jomo Kenyatta University, the Kenya Industrial Research Development
Institute (KIRDI), inter alia, are already developing new products and technologies.
However, they have loose connections to the market (especially the informal sector market)
for such technologies and limited venture resources to expand their applied research efforts.
Proposals would be judged on the basis of their technical strength, cost-effectiveness, and
commercialization prospects. The proposal guidelines, promotion, vetting and overall
management will be undertaken by MRTT&T (see Annex 10).



t                          30
Sub-Component 2b: Pilot Infrastructure Development (US$2.8 million)
3.26   This sub-component would be designed to provide Jua Kalis with legal and secure
tenure to worksites and to facilitate theiv access to appropriate infrastructure. Development of
infrastructure (sites and services) would be carried out on a pilot basis in two major cities
(Moinbasa and Kisumu), given the Bank's inexperience in this type of activities in Kenya.
Sites would be selected with a condition being that clear land title has been already secured
for Jua Kali associations or individual enterprises from local authorities. As a condition of
neaotiation the GOK provided evidence of (i) bonafide membership (registration list) in the
Jua Kali Association: (ii) clear individual or Association ownership (copies of letter of
allotment purchase receipt. and leasehold title) of sites (Kisumu and Mombasa) designated for
infrastructure provision under the proiect (para. 6.2(f)).
3.27   The infrastructure programs would be implemented by the Jua Kali
Federation/Associations with managerial, technical, and capacity building assistance from
other privately contracted organizations. They would link up with the training to provide an
'incubator" style package to promote the development and graduation into the formal sector
of micro- and small enterprises on an experimental basis. In the towns, the total 500
workplaces of three different sizes will be developed: 150 workplaces of 6mx6m, 225
workplaces of 6m x 10m and 125 workplaces of 10in x 16m. Each of the workplaces will
have individual water, sewerage, electrical connections. The sites will also be provided with
access roads, public toilets, refuse collection facilities, and drainage. Given that Jua Kalis are
skilled artisans, self-help construction methods will be adopted in addition to hiring full-time
professional workers. The workplaces would be allocated to beneficiaries only after they are
built to full completion.
3.28 Jua Kali Associations, handling sites and related infrastructure, would establish a
revolving fund with attendant user charges for recovering infrastructure investments and other
costs. Rents and charges collected would be deposited into two separate accounts, Jua Kali
Operational Fund and Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund. About 15 percent of the monthly
revenue, deposited into the Jua Kali Operational Fund, will be used for management and
maintenance of the Infrastructure. This amount would be adjusted according to ages of the
work places and worksites. The balance, deposited into the Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund,
would be invested in short- and medium-term securities and would upon rzquest be ploughed
back into development of additional Jua Kali sites or if necessary, provision of credit
facilities. The Jua Kali Operational Fund would be managed by Local Jua Kali Associations
with contracted technical assistance, while the Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund by the Project
Steering Committee. At negotiations. the GOK Drovided assurances that annual audits of
these two accounts by independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be carried out and their
audit reports would be available to IDA (para. 6.3 (c)). Baseline data would be collected as
part of the project monitoring and evaluation sub-component (see project monitoring and
evaluation below) to ensure that lessons are drawn on the relative impact of the training,
technology, infrastructure and institutional/policy package on productivity, incomes and
employment for replication purposes.
3.29 This sub-component would be managed by local Jua Kali Associations under the
supervision of the MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation. The establishment of a solid
institutional structure and competent management is essential to ensure the successful
implementation of this first Bank supported infrastructure project for the Jua Kali sector,
considering that selection and allocation of sites in the project is politically sensitive. A



31
management plan would be designed for each Jua Kali Association and management training
for Jua Kali Association representatives would be provided under the Staff Development
component, as will be described in the next section. In addition, technical assistance tnrough
management consultant firms would be provided in the start up phase (Annex 8 describes the
infrastructure component in detail).
Component 3. Institutional Develoument (US$2.1 million)
3.30   This component would help develop a new partnership between the public and private
sector guaranteeing the full participation for Jua Kali entrepreneurs and workers (as
individuals and through their associations) in training and technology policy and program
decisions and subsequent implementation. To accomplish this, two sub-components would
support the establishment of: (i) a staff development program for MRTT&T (based upon an
organizational study and staff redeployment plan) and Jua Kali Federation/Associations; and
(ii) a monitoring and evaluation system to make the training system more quality conscious,
responsive to the needs of the export sector, and financially sustainable. This component
would also support the development of a national training strategy which is crucial for project
sustainability and longer term sectoral development.
Sub-component 3a: Staff Development (US$0.7 million)
3.31   The government-private sector partnership between the MRTT&T and the Jua Kali
Federation/Associations would comprise the chief executing agents for the project. The
purposes of this sub-component would be to: (a) undertake an organizational review of
MRTT&T and the Jua Kali Federation resulting in a staff redeployment and development plan
requi.ed for project implementation; and (b) train MRTT&T/DAT and it's a regional staff
(PTTO, YTO training officers) as well as Jua Kali representatives in the skills required for the
effective oversight and management of the proposed training, technology and infrastructure
components. The main goal is to develop an implementation strategy with substantial
beneficiary involvement in the management of project activities. To this end, there would be
a particular focus on assisting training and gender unit staff in order to facilitate more
equitable distribution of project benefits and enhance monitoring of female participation. This
would require that both Training and Gender Units have suitable staff before project start-up.
At negotiations. the GOK provided the assurance that an organizational review of MRTT&T
and the Jua Kali Federation. would be completed by December 31. 1994 and a subsequent
staff redeployment and development plan required for successful project implementation.
would be submitted to IDA by June 30. 1995 (para. 6.3(b)).
3.32   Staff would be trained in such areas as coordination of the voucher program brokering
(match-making between trainees and skill-upgrading providers); sub-project appraisal of the
contract training proposals from the public and private sector providers with the assistance of
training contract support services and the local Jua Kali Associations; and oversight of
contract implementation of the staff development (capacity building of the Ministry and
Federation/Association) programs, management of the contractors and related private sector
consultant contract services (See Annex 4 for implementation organizational Chart of the key
executing bodies, MRTT&T and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations (national and district
levels).



32
3.33   The following staff development courses would be designed and implemented, but
not limited to these: (i) project management; (ii) procurement and contract administration; (iii)
financial management; (iv) monitoring/evaluation; (v) leadership and entrepreneurship
development; (vi) training program management; (vii) technology program management; (viii)
planning and financing micro- and small-scale enterprises; and (ix) training materials
development. These courses would last approximately five days each and enroll about 25
participants. It is estimated that a total of 50 courses would be organized for MRTT&T and
Jua Kali Federation/Associations (see Annex 15 for a detailed staff development plan).
Sub-component 3b: Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.4 million)
3.34   The major objective of this sub-component is to make the informal sector training
system more quality conscious, responsive to the needs of the export sector, demand driven,
and financially sustainable. Policy analysis would focus on the implementation, management
and sustainability of the Project Training Fund. For instance, the assessment of the Training
Levy System, with an eye toward improving its financial sustainability, would be a critical
activity of this sub-component. Subsequently, the modernization of the Industrial Training
Levy study and the development of a draft National Training Strategy would be important
outcomes of the project, given that the levy reform and training strategy are crucial for
project sustainability and longer term sectoral development.
3.35 The evaluation of the trade testing and certification system would also be financed
under this sub-component. Integrating indigenous and informal technologies into the trade
test system would be an important means to facilitate modernization of the informal sector and
to advance technologies in micro- and small enterprises. Strengthening the trade testing
system would also improve the quality of training. To this end, the DIT and other support
services would be provided with the necessary resources, such as consultancies and
equipment. The changes proposed for the trade test system would be closely linked to the
development of skill training programs. Reformed trade tests would reflect a broader range
of job profiles and technologies found in the informal sector. Employers (including Jua Kali)
representing the various trades would participate in defining the job profiles and in updating
the tests. Trade testing would not only be used to measure skldi development, but also to
provide the basis for clearly defined trade skills. As a condition prior to negotiations the
GOK provided draft terms of reference for trade test and industrial training lev studies and
policy review process for skills trainine (para.6.2(e)).
3.36 In addition to the above, regular assessments of trainee skill and technology needs,
and training provider capacity would be undertaken by Jua Kali Associations on an annual
basis. This exercise would establish the data base to publish national directories for purposes
of matching/brokering prospective Jua Kali trainees with training providers and technology
information services (see Amex 11). Monitoring national training capacity at MRTT&T
would further the strategic planning functions of the Ministry including the implementation of
government training policy.
3.37   The project would assist in developing a management information and monitoring
system at MRTT&T with a feedback system linked to local Jua Kali Associations, since
project activities attempt to respond to informal sector needs. The project would finance the
equipment, related training and technical assistance necessary to effectively strengthen such
functions and create new ones at the MRTT&T. Such a system would provide guidance and
criteria for funding specific training interventions. The policy reforms and action programs



33
would be implemented under the LISP and monitored by the project monitoring system (See
Annex 16 for detailed descriptions of project monitoring and impact evaluation indicators).
3.38  Project impact evaluation would involve the development of a data base on informal
sector enterprises by strengthening an existing survey, Small Scale Enterprise Survey
conducted by the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) (The Welfare Monitoring Survey will
provide baseline data for project monitoring as outlined in Annex 19). These functions would
be strengthened in collaboration with the Ministries of Labor and Planning.



34
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1    Sumrnary of Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at about
US$24.2 million, with a base cost of US$20.9 million. Price contingencies, estimated at
US$2.3 million, assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 20 percent for the first year (10
percent for the second year and 5% thereafter) and a foreign inflation rate of 2.8 percent.
Physical contingencies are estimated at US$1.0 million. IDA financing would be
approximately 90 percent of total project costs or about US$21.8 million. The Government
and Jua Kali Associations would finance approximately 10 percent of total project costs or
about US$2.4 million. Items imported directly for the project would be exemnpt from duties
and taxes (Detailed costs are presented in Annex 12 and summarized in table 4.1 below).
Table 4.1: Pr_eit-C Cs Summnaz
Project Component & Sub-Component         Foreign   Local  fotal     %       %
FE     Total
Base
Costs
I.. 'fzh1~Ft".                                                            *4      S 
Yob~~~r~~ymmu  ~~~      ~      ~      .2 ~    4.9              20       2
si ENd.-   -4                         -'-V        -
but ft-4                           19       26
. 0  i <.  t<  < ! >-  >-- - -
E  i , ;4P                                      ; 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  1 _ ._        .
1,  L       2A.      7       13
Ietr~~vo#~m~~ot~.                       1.4~    14       2.8    57'       14
-  g  X _-}~-                   t-.            -            -       -.~5 
lL                                                       1.4' 0.7 -1 47 1a
.- - :   . .   -.     ...    ;   -:    .:::;: : - : ................ -   --  -   -
SwffDePelopicy3*Mnt                                  0a      . ;     ....    ................................ .3 ...  0.  71 A ..
| . ~~~~~-. .--.   - -  -~ -.
'     -    -     .:. .  :  -,-- -; . ':          .-          ~-       - ,,.    
nV.                                                      0.:      1.       \.  ..loX7 .41 .   8
hMTT&T and JvaKll AI  oea.   0.7                             1.0       t1.7    41       a
t . ~~~-   .-  -   '- -.,,-5n4  ^   "
Physical Cowpr.es              v                     0.3     0.7      1.0    30         5
Price Cotingenci                           0..               1.:S     2.3    35        it
Total Prtdee$ Coa.               ---                         1S.4     24.2    36       116
*  net of taxes and duties
Figures may nox add up due to rouding.



35
4.2    Base Cost Estimates. The project base costs are estimated in June 1993 prices,
calculated in US dollars and converted to Kenya Shillings at the prevailing exchange rate of
Ksh 71.0/US$1.0. Civil works and building material costs are based on current market prices
made available by the construction industry. Unit costs of furnishings, equipment, vehicles
and other materials are based on contract prices for similar items currently being awarded
under the Universities Investment Project (Credit 2309-KE). Technical assistance costs for
experts recruited internationally include costs of salaries, allowances and airfares, and average
US$10,500 per staff month. Services of local consultants average US$1,500 per staff month.
Short-term training overseas, including travel and subsistence costs, is estinated at US$5,000
per month.
4.3    The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$8.6 million or 36 percent of the
total project cost excluding duties and taxes, has been calculated as follows: a) 62 percent for
contracted civil works and building materials; b) 100 percent for equipment; c) 100 percent
for vehicles, overseas training and study tours; d) 60 percent for management training; e) 10
percent for other staff training; e) 80 percent for equipment operation and maintenance; f) 30
percent for studies and services of local consulting firms; g) 20 percent for building operation
and maintenance; and h) zero percent for staff salaries and per diem.
4.4 Physical contingencies of US$1.0 million equivalent have been estimated at five
percent of base costs for all categories of expenditure except for technical assistance (experts,
studies and overseas training) which has been estimated at ten percent of base cost. Price
contingencies of US$2.3 million equivalent are based on a seven year project implementation
period commencing July, 1994.
4.5    Recurrent Costs. Incremental operating costs under the project are estimated at
US$2.9 million with a breakdown as follows: consumables (US$1.3); maintenance (US$0.2);
and travel and per diem (US$1.4).
B. Finaing Plan
4.6   Project Financing. The total costs of US$24.2 million equivalent, excluding duties
and taxes, would be financed by the Government, Jua Kali Associations and IDA.
4.7    The IDA Credit of US$21.8 million (SDR  million) would cover about 90 percent of
total project cost or 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 86 percent of the local cost
net of duties and taxes. The Govermment and JKA contribution of US$2.4 million equivalent
would finance about 10 percent of the total project cost. About US$ 0.5 million equivalent,
or 2 percent of total project cost, would be contributed by Jua Kali Associations and private
individuals towards the constuction (materials and labor) of storage and distribution facilities
at the Jua Kali development locations in Mombasa and Kisumu (The financing plan is shown
in Table 4.2.).



36
Table 4.2. Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
l _________________________     (in   US$  millions)
ITEM               Gvnt./JKA       IDA         Total       IDA %
INVESTIMENT                  _             __
A. Sites and Services            0.50          2.28        2.78         82
Construction including
Materials, Water Supply
Sanitation and Electricity
B. Equipment
Vehicles                       0.00         0.12         0.12         100
Information Technology         0.00         0.07         0.07        100
Machinery                      0.00         0.13         0.13        100
Equipment                      0.00         0.05         0.05        100
C. Training
Vouchers (Management)          0.30          1.90        2.2          86
Vouchers (Technical Skills)    0.30         3.70        4.00         92
Training Contracts             0.30         5.10         5.40         94
Foreign                        0.00         0.22         0.22        100
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign                        0.00         0.74         0.74        100
Local                          0.20         2.41         2.61         92
E. Applied Research
Publications                   0.00         0.10         0.10        100
Research Overheads             0.10         0.30         0.40         75
Honoraria                      0.00         0.34         0.34        100
Incremental Operating Costs  ..
F. Maintenance
Buildings                      0.01         0.02         0.03         67
Equipment & Furniture          0.00         0.03         0.03        100
Other                          0.05         0.10         0.15         67
G. Materials and Supplies
Office Supplies                0.09         0.09         0.18         50
Materials Supplies             0.06         0.06         0.12         50
H. Travel
Foreign                        0.00         0.38         0.38        100
Local                          0.05         0.00        0.05          0
Per Diem                       0.11         0.69         0.80         86
I. Salaries
Salaries                       0.03         0.00         0.03         0.
Total Base Costs               2.10         18.83       20.93         90
Contingencies                  0.30         3.00         3.30         90
Total Project Costs            2.40         21.83       24.23        90



37
4.8    Counterpart Funding and Project Sustainabilitv. The Government has recently been
experiencing difficulties in making adequate counterpart funding available to some donor-
assisted projects. This is a macro problem, arising from the low Government revenue effort
and specific aims to decrease the budget deficit to levels that can be sustained by foreign and
non-inflationary domestic financing. Government's aim for 1991-1994 to achieve an output
growth of above 5 %; reduce inflation to the average level forecast of 5 %; and reduce the
external current account deficit to a sustainable level of 4 %-5 % of GDP will absorb much of
its resources which could have a constraining effect on the supply of counterpart funds for the
future. Bank Country Implementation Reviews (CIR), year-by-year budget reviews and a
mid-term review in 1997 would focus on this issue to ensure consistency between project
activities and that adequate counterpart funding would be available.
4.9    Long-term sustainability of the project investments, following project completion,
depends on developments both outside, and within, the sector. Outside the sector, it is
expected that appropriate financial and structural policies will reduce inflation (currentiy at
20%), increase private investment (fall of 0.6 % from 11% in last three years), and reduce
the fiscal deficit (7% of GDP). Within the sector and through the project, Government would
reduce discriminatory policy environmental constraints, enable better access to information
and technology to producers, improve access to credit via commercial banks, provide an
adequate infrastructure base from which to operate, provide better access to more dynamic
marikets (inputs and sub-contracting) and improve the supply of raw materials to micro-
producers. This will generate income, lower production costs, achieve better quality control,
create employment and have a positive impact on the reduction of poverty within the informal
sector.
C. Disbursements
4.10   Disbursements. The Bank disbursement profile for all sectors in Kenya is seven
years. The project would therefore be completed by June 30, 2001 and its closing date would
be December 31, 2001. The proposed Credit allocation is shown in Table 4.3 and estimated
disbursement schedule in Annex 13 along with the project and country disbursement profiles.
4.11   All disbursements will be made in line with Bank Guidelines and will operate under
procedu--- , ceptable to IDA. Disbursements will be fully documented except for payments
for contracts and purchase orders less than US$50,000 equivalent and expenditures for local
training programs and operating costs, which would be disbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs). SOEs will be certified by the Head of Finance and Accounts Department
(FAD) in the MRTT&T, who will confirm that these are in agreement with the ledger
accounts, copies of which will accompany the claims. The ledger accounts and other
supporting documentation will, however, be retained and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions. Wherever possible, all withdrawal applications should be aggregated in
batches of not less than US$25,000 equivalent.



38
TABLE 4.3: Disbursment Cateiories and Percentages
Amount of Credit
Category                      Allocated            % of Expenditures
l_________________              US$ Million             to be financed
1. Civil Works/Construction         2.5          100% of foreign expenditure
Materials                                      80% of local expenditure
2. Equipment and                    0.3           100% of foreign expenditure
Furniture
3. Vehicles                        0.1            100% of foreign expenditure
4. Technical Assistance             3.6           100% of foreign expenditure
90% of local expenditure
5. Training and Studies            13.0           100% of foreign expenditure
95% of local expenditure
6. Incremental Recurrent            1.9           100% of foreign expenditure
Expenditures (salaries)
7. Project Preparation Facility     0.4          Amount due pursuant to
section 2.05 (c) of the
l_________________ l_________                _ _Credit Agreement
Total Credit Amount             21.8
4.12 Special Account. A foreign exchange Special Account of USD 1.5 million
(approximately four months of eligible expenditures), funded by IDA, will be established in a
commercial bank and operated by the Finance and Accounts Department (FAD) of MRTT&T.
Such account will be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the performance and
position of the project. All payments of USD 150,000 or less would be channeled through
the Special Account. The minimum size application for direct payment or issuance of Special
Commitment shall be USD 150,000 equivalent. The Finance and Accounts Department (FAD)
will submit replenishment requests, accompanied by full documentation except for those items
eligible for disbursement on the basis of certified SOEs, on a monthly basis or whenever the
Special Account is diminished by one third, whichever comes first. The Government will
make available its contribution through the approved development estimates, as the case may
be, for items to be financed out of the Special Account at the same time as withdrawals are
made from the Special Account. All requests for replenishment of the Special Account will
be consolidated by FAD and countersigned by the Head of Department.
4.13   Audits. Project accounts would be audited annually covering all expenditures related
to the project and with particular attention to and including separate opinions for (a)
expenditures reimbursed agairnst SOEs, and (b) the administration of the Special Account.



39
Reports will include a detailed statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and
internal controls. At negotiations. the GOK provided assurances that annual audits of special
account and SOEs bv independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be carried out and that
all audited accounts would be made available to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 6.3(c)). The auditors opinion and report would be countersigned by the
Auditor General. Project accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements will
provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of disbursements and the
project generally.
D. Procurement
4.14   Procurement arrangements for items financed by IDA are given in Table 4.4.
Procurement of all goods and services funded under the project and review of procurement
documents shall be done in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines (issued May 1992).
World Bank sample documents for procurement of civil works and goods will be followed
under ICB procurement, and all procurement arrangements will be coordinated by the
DAT/ATU.
4.15   Procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will follow Bank Group
Procurement Guidelines. Procedures for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) shall be reviewed
by IDA and include public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, local advertising and the
award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Foreign bidders will not be
precluded from participating.
4.16   Procurement under the project would be undertaken as follows:
(a) Civil works
(i)      Civil works contracts at the sites in Kisumu and Mombasa (US$2.0
million) include the basic infrastructure consisting of access roads and
footpaths, water and drainage, electrical power installation, site
fencing and the construction of communal sanitary facilities,
construction materials store and site office. All contracts would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures among pre-qualified
construction firms in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines
and where foreign firms would not be precluded from participating.
(ii)    IDA would finance the construction of some of the individual
structures for each of the Jua Kali operators. Foreign imported
building materials (US$1.0 million) to be purchased under ICB
procedures (see para i below) would be procured by MRTT&T and
distributed to each of the Jua Kali locations. Jua Kali operators would
be responsible for the construction of individual structures using the
materials to be supplied, however, the type and method of
construction would be controlled and supervised and appropriate
training in building techniques given to operators, through the project,
to ensure a permanent and effective result.



40
(b) Q2gLs required for the project consisting of equipment, vehicles and construction
materials would be acquired as follows:
(i)      Equipment and vehicles (US$0.4 million) would be procured through
ICB following IDA Guidelines. Equipment (such as desk-top
computers and software) which have to be compatible with existing
units, as well as miscellaneous supplies which cannot be grouped into
bid packages of US$50,000 or more, may be procured through
"prudent shopping' by comparing prices obtained from at least three
independent suppliers. Items procured through "prudent shopping"
would be subject to an aggregate limit of US$0.3 equivalent.
Procurement of small quantities of low value equipment (computer,
software, etc.) may be purchased through IAPSCO, UNDP.
(c) Services
(i)      Technical assistance (including both long- and short-term
assignments) for training, studies and research will be provided by
firms and individual consultants. Selection procedures for all
consultants (firms and individuals) will be in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1)81). Consultant
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 do not require prior
Bank approval. All consultant terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to IDA
and subject to review Mforo an agreement (or contract) is negotiated
and signed. Procedur :s in consultancy contracts involving firms will
include the customa- mandatory review by IDA of proposed short
list, letter of invita-. In and award proposal for all contracts - in
particular evaluation criteria. Any proposals for single-source
selection of a consultant will be critically examined or reviewed by the
Bank and GOK.
(ii)    Overseas and In-country Training. For overseas training financed
under the credit, the qualifications of candidates, along with the course
of study, proposed training institutions, and costs, will be subject to
prior review by IDA. Given the importance of skills development and
training, the credit would support part of the local costs for local
training, which courses (along with their estimated costs), will also be
subject to prior IDA review.
(d) Operatine Expenses. Operating costs include local staff salaries, allowances,
office running expenses and fuel such as maintenance of vehicles, equipment,
office rent, supplies and utilites, for which procurement is not applicable.
Remaining expenses such as repairs, stationery, etc, would be financed by
Government using their own standard and established procedures.



41
Table 4.4 Prour|ment
US$'000
(Amount of IDA financing is in braces)
Project Element        Procurement Method         Other           NBF            TOtal
ICB             LCB
1. Works
1.1 Construction                         2.01                                        2.01
(-)   ~(2.01)         t)()(2.01)
2. Goods
2.1 Construction Materials    1.00                                      _             1.00
(1.00)      (-)()()(,  I)
2.2 Equipment                0.27                                                    0.27
(0.27)       (-)          (-)             (-)          (0.27)
2.3 Vehicles                 0.13                                                    0 0.13
(0.13)       (-)          (-)             -)           (0.13)
3. Consultandes
3.1 Training                                          13.71             _            13.71
(-)   1 )        tl~(2.71)         -            (12.71)
3.2 Technical Assistance                               3.88                          3.88
3.3 Studies & Research                                0.81                           0.81
__________________________  (-)  (-)  (0.61)  (-)     (0.61)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 O&M, Vehicles,                                     0.24                          0.24
Equipment, Buildings       (-)         (-3         (0.18)           t-)          (0.18)
4.2 Salaries, Travel &                                 1.66                          1.66
Per Diem                   (-)         (-)         (1.46)           (-)          (1.46)
4.3 Materials & Supplies                               0.47                          0.47
(-3        (-)         (0.27)           ()            (0.27)
5. PPF                           -           -          (0.43)                        (0.43)
TOTAL                   1.40        2.01         20.77             _            24t8
(1.40)     (2.01)       (18.37)                        (1
5Note Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA
NBF - Not Bank Financed



42
4.17 Contract Review. During project implementation, IDA financed civil works contracts
above a threshold of TJS$250000; goods and equipment contracts above US$100,000; and, all
service contracts would bi subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Contracts below the
limits for civil works and gocds will be subject to post-award review. The review process
would cover 100 percent of total works contracts procured by ICB and about 14 percent of
the total value of Bank-financed goods and services. Sclected post-review of awarded
contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on about 1 in 4 works contracts and
1 in 8 goods contracts. Terms of reference, curriculum vitae, draft contracts and letters of
appointment for all consultants would be reviewed by IDA prior to their appointment. The
Borrower should use, in all cases of IDA financed procurement, the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents. As a condidon of Board presentation the GOK would provide draft tender
documents. including comnonent profile and terms of reference for implementation contracts
and a detailed procurement schedule (see para. 6.4(c)).
4.18   Recordin of Procurment Information. Procurement information will be collected
and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower (assisted by consultants
as necessary), indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including
best estimates of allowaxes for physical and price contingencies;
(ii) revised dming of procrement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual corracts;
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
(e) a completion report by the Borrower within three months of the credit closing
date;
(d) at the time of supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement
undertaken to-date together with a forward forecast of anticipated procurement to
be undertaken in the coming year with estimate costs of disbursement.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.19 Other Accouints. FAD would maintain separate detailed accounts of all project
expenditures incurred through the project and by any other agencies involved in its activities.
FAD will ensure that all accounts are professionally mainained, that financial statements
suitable for auditing are drawn up, and that the project is audited anmnally by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA.



43
F. Project Implemeion
4.20   Status of Project Preparation. Government has prepared the following documents:
(a) a draft letter of informal sector policy and time-bound action plan; (b) a detailed project
implementation plan and procedures manual, including specific organizational arrangements,
actions (activities and procedures), responsible agents and annual budget estimates, at least for
the first year's implementation, within an attendant time schedule; (c) a terms of reference and
an advertisement for the recruittrent of an external auditor of the Training Levy Fund for
fiscal year 1993; (d) draft terms of reference for prospective implementation contracts; (e)
draft terms of reference for industrial training levy and trade testing assessments and policy
review process for skills training; and (f) evidence of (i) bonafide membership (registration
list) in the Jua Kali Association; and (ii) clear individual or Association ownership (copies of
letter of allotment purchase receipt, and leasehold title) of sites (Kisumu and Mombasa)
designated for infrastructure provision under the pro'ect.
4.21   Executina Agents. A government-private se4;tor partnership between the MRTT&T
and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations would comprise the chief executing agents for the
project. In the early years of the project, while the staff and management capacity of these
national institutions is being developed through a comprehensive staff development program,
the main project activities (training fund management, infrastructure and technological
information program development, policy analysis, and program monitoring and evaluation)
would be implemented with assistance from private sector consultant contract services (see
Annex 14-summary of principal contract areas and cost estimates). As a condition prior to
ne2otiation the GOK provided Draft Terms of Reference for prospective implementation
contracts (para. 6.2(d)). As a condition of credit effectiveness there wculd be full staffng of
the relevant MRTT&T jmplement  units required to assist in contract management (para.
6.5(c)).
4.22   The specific project coordinating and management functions would be as follows:
Day to day project coordination would be the responsibility of the Directorate of Applied
Technology (DAT), MRTT&T under the direct management of the Permanent Secretary,
MRTT&T (the chief accounting officer of the Ministry) and guided by a multi-sector (public
and private) Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the Permanent Secretary with
representation from the Jua Kali Federation/Associations. The GOK would provide the
proposed staffing plan for staff to be redeployed and trained to assist in contract/project
management within the relevant units of the MRTT&T and the Jua Kali
Federation/lsociations.
4.23   The Training Fund would be managed by the Traming and Gender Unit (TGU) of the
Directorate of Applied Technology (DAT), MRTT&T. This unit would coordinate the
voucher program brokering (match-making between trainees and skdll-upgrading providers)
and sub-project appraisal of the contract training proposals from the public and private sector
providers with the assistance of training contract support services and the local Jua Kali
Associations. The Technology sub-component would also be implemented on a contract basis
and managed by the Center for Research and Technolog (CRT) and the Directorate of
Research Development (DRD). The pilot infrastructure component would be implemented by
engineering and management contract consultants under the management of the Applied
Technology Unit (ATU-infrastructure and worksite).



44
4.24 The Planning and Development Unit (PDU), MRTT&T would oversee contract
implementation of the staff development (capacity building of the Ministry and
Federation/Association) programs, manage the contractors undertaking the various policy
studies (assessment of the Training Levy Scheme and National Trade Testing Program) and
National Training Strategy development, performance monitoring of policy and program
implementation, and the impact evaluation. This activity would include the development of a
data base on the informal sector coordinating with overlapping data bases from the National
Economic Survey and the Household Monitoring Program. This would require the
coordination with the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). At the grassroots enterprise level,
the project activities would be implemented directly by the Jua Kali Federation/Associations
with support from the relevant MRTT&T units (described above) and related private sector
consultant contract services. It is envisaged that the Federation/Associations would be capable
of implementing and sustaining the training, technology and infrastructure programs upon
completion of the project. See Annex 3 for implementation organizational Charts of the key
executing bodies, MRTT&T and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations (national and district
levels).
4.25  lmplementation Schedule. The project will be implemented over the seven-year
period July 1, 1994 to June 30, 2001 with a Credit closing date of December 31, 2001. The
project implementation schedule (Annex 16), as well as the procurement and disbursement
schedules (Table 4.4 and Annex 13) would provide the basis for planning the physical aspects
of project implementation. During the joint annual review of project implementation (para.
4.28), Govermnent and IDA would review and update the implementation schedule as
necessary. A detailed program of activities and actions for the first year of implementation
would be developed by the relevant units described above prior to effectiveness to ensure
minimum delays to start-up activities. As a condition prior to negotiation the GOK provided
a detailed Draft Project Implementation Plan and Procedures Manual. including specific
organizational arrangements, actions (activities and procedures). responsible agents and annual
budget estimates. at least for the first year's implementation. within an attendant time schedule
(para. 6.2(b)). As a condition of Board presentation the GOK would provide an agreed
detailed Implementation Plan and a Procedures Manual. including specified organizational
arrangements. actions (procedures). and responsible agents within an agreed time schedule
(para. 6.4(b)).
4.26   Monitoring. Reporting and Evaluation. Overall monitoring and evaluation of project
performance will be carried out by the PDU over the life of the project, with the other units
playing a coordinating role. Implementation monitoring will assess the financial and physical
progress of the various components, as well as the progress in implementing the policy
measures supported by the project, with the most meaningful and practical indicators selected
for each component (Annex 17 and 19). The PDU will prepare draft formats monitoring
implementation on an annual basis, and finalize these after close consultation with other
implementing agencies and IDA. Monitoring instruments will be introduced at a project
launch workshop, organized by the PDU at the outset of the project, and participated in by all
agencies involved in the project. Utilizing these instruments, implementing agencies will
provide data to the PDU for inclusion in the consolidated semestrial progress reports. Such
reports would then be used in the preparation of a comprehensive annual progress report and
annual work plan for the following years activities. Government would prepare annual
reports summarizing achievements over the past year and proposed work programs for the



45
forthcoming year for all project components. Annual work programs would also include a
review of performance of project implementation personnel who would be hired on the basis
of one-year contracts. In addition, semi-annual progress reports will also be prepared by the
Borrower for review by IDA.
4.27   Progress Reporting. Detailed information on the status of project performance will be
maintained by the PDU, and made available to Bank supervision missions. In addition, semi-
annual progress reports will be prepared by the PDU and submitted to the Bank for
information and comment. MRTT&T will prepare an Implementation Completion report
(ICR) to be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the closing of the credit. During
negotiations. assurances were given by the Government that the MR1T&T would prepare:
semi-annual progress reports and forward them to the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of
each year (para. 6.3(d)) and an Implementation Completion Report (aCR) on the
imnementation experience and project outcomes for submission to IDA not later than six
months after the closing date (para. 6.3(e)).
4.28   Reviews. To provide a structure for regular reviews of project performance and
expenditures, MRTT&T would organize no later than May 31 of each year (to coordinate
with Government's budget preparation cycle), a joint Bank-Government review of project
implementation, based on its regular semi-annual progress reports (para. 4.27) and an annual
work program for the next fiscal year. During negotiations, assurances were given by the
Government that. beginninge in 1994, it would submit to the Bank for review and comment.
no later than April 30 of each year, a statement of project achievements and actual
e-xpenditures for the ongoing year and a work plan and proposed expenditures for the coming
3= (para. 6.3(f)). Reviews would include comments on: (a) major policies in the sector and
recurrent financing levels; (b) assessment of performance on the various project components;
(c) required modifications to targets and strategies; (d) the preparation of future work plans
and budgets; and, (e) statements received from MRTT&T and the other agencies responsible
for implementing the various project components. In view of the many legal actions due in
mid/late 1994 under the Action Plan, special prominence to review their status would be given
in each annual project review.
4.29   Mid-tenn Review. A mid-term review of the project, in addition to the planned
annual reviews proposed in paras. 4.27 and 4.28 above, will be carried out jointly by the
Government, Jua Kali Federation and the Bank no later than May 31, 1998. This review
will: (a) evaluate overall progress and project implementation relative to program and project
objectives; (b) identify constraints and bottlenecks by reviewing the adequacy of policies and
regulatory framework; (c) assess progress and suggest possible changes in training programs;
(d) assess progress in the completion and occupancy of the infrastructure works to be
constructed at the Jua Kali sites; (e) assess the success or failure to the provision of
satisfactory and protected land title to Jua Kali operators; and, (f) analyze institutional
constraints and make recommendations for change. During negotiation, assurances were
Fiven by the Government that MRTT&T would carry out with IDA and the Jua Kali
Federation. a tripartite Mid-Term review (based upon aereed policy and program performance
indicators) in 1998 (para. 6.3(g)).



46
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1    Expected benefits of the project are: (a) improved skills and an expanded informal
sector - including the expansion of female-owned enterprises in the manufacturing sector --
with increased employment opportunities and earnings through improved product quality and
diversity, secure worksite and improved infrastructure, better marketing and increased access
to technology choice; (b) a downsized and more focused Ministry of Research, Technical
Training, and Technology capable of policy analysis, setting training standards, facilitating
technical and managerial training and related technology information and innovation; (c) the
progressive empowerment of the Jua Kali sector which will enhance its participation in the
economic development process; and (d) gradual inclusion (graduation) of the informal sector
into the modern sector by establishing a legal and contractual basis for its unfettered
development. Overall, project interventions (skill upgrading, technology information,
infrastructure provision and staff development) would target about 10% female participants
(proportional representation of women by region and trade). Whereas up to 50% basic skill
training under the voucher program would target women, given that they comprise only 10%
of the manufacturing sector.
5.2   To some extent the project's institutional benefits have already been achieved. During
preparation, a detailed analysis of the vocational and technical training system (VET) was
completed. The policies and actions proposed under this project will foster the reorientation
of the VET system to make it more efficient and market oriented. The project would help
develop and implement a national training strategy to improve the quality, access, and
sustainable financing of the VET system. Sub-projects would orient training institutions to
offer courses that are both market- and skill driven, such as skill upgrading and related
technology courses for the informal sector. Existing training capacity will be utilized and
improved, especially for skills upgrading. In the long term, the project would strengthen the
key planning functions of the MRTT&T. Establishing a monitoring and evaluation capacity at
MRTT&T, along with private sector association in the selection and operation of training
activities, will establish more automatic regulation of the VET system and make it more
responsive to the needs of the economy.
5.3    Table 5.1 presents a beneficiary summary. It is expected that some 60,000 Jua Kali
entrepreneurs and operators, primarily engaged in manufacturing, would benefit from the
proposed Training Fund. They represent approximately 50 percent of the manufacturing and
productive services in the informal sector, or 22 percent of entire informal sector. The
project would target enterprises consisting of 1-49 employees, located mainly in the urban and
peri-urban areas of Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa. About 4,000 individuals would benefit
through employment at the areas of infrastructure development; and close to 80,000 Jua Kali
Association members would benefit from information dissemination regarding appropriate
technology and skill upgrading programs.



47
Table 5.1 Beneficiary Summar
Component                      FEsuated Number of Direct Beneficiaries
1. TrIning Fumd
Voucher Program              30,000 vouchers for entrepreneurs/artisans; 50%
basic skill training vouchers for female artisans
Training Contracts           30,000 entrepreneurs/artisans; 150 training providers;
1,500 trainers
2. Technology and
Infrstnuture
Information                  400 Jua Kali Associations; 80,000 members
(enterprises/artisans)
Marketing Exhibitions        900 enterprises
Exchange/study visits       200 Jua Kali innovators/entrepreneurs
Research Grants              75 Jua Kali innovators/individuals/firms/ R&D
institutions
Infrastructure              4,000 Jua Kali entrepreneurs
3. Institonal Development
Staff development/training   200 MRTT&T participants; 350 Jua Kali
Federation/Association participants
Foreign Fellowships          36 M/M for MRTT&T/Jua Kali
Federation/Associations
B. Risks
5.4   The possible risks, especially for the training and technology components, are: (a) the
inability of the Government to specify and implement training and private sector development
policies to enable informal sector entrepreneurs to operate more effectively; (b) poor
administration and over-sight of MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation/Associations, including
poor decision-making about Training Fund allocation and management; (c) failure to recover
user costs for training, technology exchange visits and infrastructure development; and (d)
lack of capacity to sustain policy and project interventions. To overcome these risks, the
project would be conditioned on a policy letter and time-bound action plan ensuring key
enabling policies for the Jua Kali sector and the implementation of a National Training
Strategy. Training Fund replenishments would be allocated on an annual basis, once agreed
and acceptable levels of performance in administration, award allocation, and utilization
criteria are met. The process for awarding skill upgrading voucbers on a competitive basis.
training contracts and applied technology study tours and research grants would be evaluated



48
in an annual project review. A mid-term project evaluation would be included to allow for
project redirection, if necessary.
5.5    Since institutional development is a major component focusing on the Jua Kali
Associations and the MRTT&T, as well as management and planning skills of entrepreneurs,
one significant outcome would be the capacity to sustain policy and project interventions.
With the inclusion of partial cost recovery through training fees and a reformed Training
Levy, the financial sustainability of training investments would also be strengtiened. In
addition, cost recovery measures through the infrastructure revolving fund managed by the
Associations should contribute to sustainability of physical investments.
5.6    The infrastructure component will add several other risks: (a) coordination difficulties
with the various authorities responsible for land, planning and services; although land is
already acquired from local authorities, the process of surveying, mapping, and registration
may take a long time; (b) a high rate of default in terms of cost recovery; (c) uncertainty in
the upkeep and maintenance of the sheds and other infrastructure; (d) the sheds built under the
project may be sold or transferred to richer non-Jua Kalis; and (f) the self-help approach may
delay the construction of the infrastructure due to increased opportunity cost of timne devoted
by Jua Kali entrepreneurs. To mitigate against these possible risks, a detailed business plan
of Jua Kali Federation and Associations ensuring the maintenance of the infrastructure will be
prepared. Transparent and accountable procedures will be established for the allotment of
worksites. Finally, the project will also specify the stipulation disproving the transfer of
worksites to non-Jua Kalis.



*                       49
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1    Government will open at the beginning of the project implementation period a special
account maintained by the Central Bank to facilitate ready availability of IDA funding, where
claims for disbursements and financial records would be managed through the Finance and
Accounting Department (FAD) at MRTT&T. Replenishment would be on the basis of actual
payments made and SOEs prepared as submitted by the accounts controller of MRIT&T
(FAD).
B. Conditions of Negotiation
6.2    Conditions prior to Negotiations (December. 1993). The following conditions were
fulfilled prior to invitation to negotiate.
(a) A Draft Letter of Informal Sector Policy and Time-bound Action
Plan (para. 3.3).
(b) A Detailed Draft Project Implementation Plan and Procedures'
Manual, including specific organizational arrangements, actions
(activities and procedures), responsible agents and annual budget
estimates, at least for the first year's implementation, within an
attendant time schedule (para. 4.25).
(c) Terms of reference for the recruitment of external auditors to audit the FY 93
Training Levy Funds (para. 3.5).
(d) Draft Terms of Reference for prospective implementation contracts
(para. 4.21).
(e) Draft Terms of Reference for trade test and industrial levy studies
and policy review process for skills training (para. 3.35).
(f)  Evidence of (i) bonafide membership (registration list) in the Jua Kali
Association; (ii) clear individual or Association ownership (copies of letter of
allotment purchase receipt, and leasehold title) of sites (Kisumu and Mombasa)
designated for infrastructure provision under the project (para. 3.26).
6.3    Assurances were provided during Negotiations. The Government provided the
following assurances at negotiations that:
(a) an assessment of the National Industrial Training Levy system and the trade
testing and certification system would be undertaken aad a detailed Action Plan
for modernizing these, including amendment of relevant acts, if necessary, would
be drafted by August 30, 1995. A policy review process for skills training and a



50
draft National Training Strategy would be completed by December 31, 1995
(para. 3.5);
(b) an organizational review of MRTT&T and Jua Kali Federation would be
completed by December 31, 1994. A suibsequent staff redeployment and
development plan required for successful project implementation would be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1995 (para. 3.31);
(c) annual audits of special account and SOEs as well as of two financial accounts
for the infrastructure component by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
would be carried out. All audited accounts would be made available to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (paras. 3.28 and 4.13);
(d) MRTT&T would prepare semi-annual progress reports and forward them to the
Bank by April, 30 and October 31 of each year (para. 4.27);
(e) MRTT&T would prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the
implementation experience and project outcomes for submission to IDA not later
than six months after the closing date (para. 4.27);
(f) beginning in 1994, MRTT&T would submit to the Bank, for review and
comment, no later than April 30 of each year, a statement of project
achievements and actual expenditures for the on-going year, and a work plan and
proposed expenditure for the coming year (para. 4.28);
(g) MRTT&T would carry out with IDA and the Jua Kali Federation, a tripartite
Mid-Term review (based upon agreed policy and program performance
indicators) in 1998 (para. 4.29).
C. Conditions of Board Presentaton
6.4   Conditions of Board Presentation (February-March. 1994). The following are
conditions required prior to Board presentation.
(a) A signed Letter of Informal Sector Policy and Time-Bound Action Plan (para.
3.3).
(b) Draft tender documents and advertisement for the recruitment of external
auditors to audit the FY 93 Training Levy Funds (para. 3.5).
(c) Draft tender documents, including component profile and terms of reference for
implementation contracts and a detailed procurement schedule (see Table 4.4 for
the schedule) (para. 4.17).
(d) An agreed detailed Implementation Plan and Procedures' Manual, including
specified organizational arrangement, actions (procedures), and responsible
agents within an agreed time schedule (para. 4.25).



5 1
D. Conditions of Credit Effectvene
6.5   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness (June-July. 1994)
(a) Employnment of external auditors to audit the FY 93 Training Levy Funds and
provision of the completed audit reports with recommended remedies for the FY
93 Training Levy Funds (para. 3.5).
(b) Cabinet approval for the establishment of the Project Training Fund
(para. 3.11).
(c) Full staffing of the relevant MRTT&T implementing units required to assist in
contract management (para. 4.21).
E. Conditions of Disburement
6.6   Conditions of Disbursement
(a) As a condition of disbursement on the civil works and building materials
categories of the infrastructure component, the GOK would submit the following
draft bills to Parliament, according to the Letter of Informal Sector Policy and
Action Plan: the Registration of Business Names Act, the Trade Licensing Act,
the Local Government Adoptive By-Laws (building standards), and the Electric
Power Act, as well as the Vagrancy, Nuisance, and Chief's Authority Acts
(para. 3.3).
6.7   Recommendation. With the above assurances, the proposed project forms a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 15.7 million (US$ 21.8 million equivalent) to
the Republic of Kenya, at standard termis, with 40 years maturity.



ANNEX I
Page I of 4
52
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
LABOR MARKET STATISTICS
Table  1.1       Urban  labor Force Participation
Rates by Age  and Education,  1986
Aae GrouR           Males      Females        Total
(pensctgc)
15-19           19.6         31.8         26.0
20-24           73.7         53.7         63.6
25-29           94.5         69.4         82.6
30-34           98.8         64.2         83.5
35-39           96.4         61.2         81.2
40-44           99.5         59.9         87.3
45-49            97.4        60.2         85.2
50-54           95.3         53.4         82.1
55-59           84.8         48.1         72.0
60-64           74.0         47.5         60.9
65+
Education
None                 90.6         44.9         60.9
Standard 1-4         89.2         57.5         74.0
Standard 5-8         77.2         47.4         63.8
Fo?m  1-2            74.2         59.3         67.3
Farm 3-4             83.4         65.2         76.3
Form 5-6             81.2         67.8         76.9
College              84.3         87.6         85.7
University           95.7         76.8         90.5
Total            82.2        55.8         70.4
Source: Urban Labor Force Survey, 1986.
Table 1.2    Urban Unemployment Rates
by Age and Education,  1986
A gLirouP          Males      Females        Total
(pIrneata)
15-19           63.1         39.6         47.9
20-24           34.0         45.0         38.6
25-29            10.9        23.4         15.9
30-34             5.3        14.1          8.3
35-39             3.2        12.3          6.2
40-44             2.0          3.1         2.3
45-49             3.3          1.4 *       4.8
50-54             3.6         4.1  *       1.8
55-59            7.8         43.2  *      16.0
60-64            0.0          0.0  *       .
65+
Education
None                  6.5         21.2         13.5
Standard 1-4         11.7         19.3         14.5
Standard 5-8         10.9         25.0         15.6
Form 1-2             13.4         39.0         23.8
Form 3-4             17.4         26.8         20.6
Form 5-6              9.5          5.1          8.2
College                3.4        17.9          9.5
University            1.2          0.0          0.9
Total            11.7        24.1         16.2
* A relatively small number of women aged over 45 are
included in the sample. These figures, therefore,
may not be reliable due to the possibility of being
outliers.
Source: Urban Labor Force Survey, 1986.



53                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
Table 1.3    Employment by Sector,  1988-92
(thousands)
Sector                                      1988         1989        1990         1991       1992*
Modern Sector: urban & rural
Wage employment                      1,345.9     1,368.4      1,409.4     1,441.7      1,462.6
public                          669.3        685.6       699.8        715.7       723.4
private                         676.6        682.8       709.5       726.6        739.2
Self-emp. & unpaid family emp.          43.9        44.3         48.2        52.2         53.8
Total                                  1,389.8      1,412.7     1,457.6      1,493.9     1,516.4
Informal Sector**
Urban                                  267.7       294.8        341.8       397.9        448.5
Rural                                  148.0        165.5       182.1       198.7        230.7
Total                                    415.6        460.2       523.9        596.6       679.2
Grand Total (Modern+Informal)            1,805.4      1,872.9     1,981.5      2,090.5     2,195.6
*   provisional
**  adjusted by an additional 20% to account for household- and permanent structure-based enterprises.
Source: Economic Surveys
Table 1.4 Distribution of informal Sector Employment, 1988-92*
Average
Share    Annual Growth
Activity                         1988        1969         1990        1991      1992**         1992         1988-92
Manufacturing                             79,315       87,800     101,851      121,331     138,139         20.3%          14.9%
Construction                                  154         173         204          240         274          0.0%          15.5%
Wholesale and Retail Trade,              262,957      291,089     329,502      370,146     421,422         62.0%          12.5%
Hotels and Restaurants
Transport and Communications               6,648        7,424       8,456        9,618      10,950          1.6%         13.3%
Community, Social and Personal            66,560       73,727      83,899       95,254     108,449         16.0%          13.0%
Services
Total                                    415,634      460,213     523,913      596,588     679,234        100.0%          13.1%
*   adjusted by an additional 20% to account for household- and permanent structure-based enterprises.
* provisional
Source: Economic Surveys



54                                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
Table 1.5 Growth of Wage Employment in the Modern Sector*, 1982-1988.
Average Annual Growth 1982-88 (gercenta g
50 and
1-4       5-9     10-19      20-49      OVer      Total
Agriculture & Forestry                  -0.6%       5.5%      7.5%       3.4%       1.2%      1.5%
Mining 4 Quarrying                      18.1%       1.9%      1.2%       6.7%      3.9%       4.2%
Manufacturing                            2.9%       4.9%      5.74       3.1%       3.5%      3.5%
Electricity & Water                     40.3%     29.6%       7.9%      19.4%      6.2%       7.2%
Construction                            -2.3%       2.1%      0.4%       0.4%    -10.9%      -8.5%
Trade, Reataurants & Hotels              4.5%       5.8%      6.1%       4.2%      6.0%       6.0%
Transport & Communications               8.5%      10.2%      8.8%       6.5%      5.4%       5.9%
Finance, Insurance, Real Est             2.8%       2.8%      5.3%       4.3&      6.5%       5.9%
& Business Services
Community, Social                        9.6%       5.9%     14.8%       5.9%      5.8%       6.4%
& Personal Services
All Industries                           5.1%       5.8S      9.2%       4.2%      3.4%       3.8%
* Excluding Central Government, private households with domestic servants.
Soureet Bmployment and Earnings in the Modern Sector, various Iasues.
Table 1.6 Average Monthly Earnings of Urban Paid Employee# by Edumtion
M4le                          Feses
Education                  eMP    earninos                 IeMo      rnings
No education                  9.5     2,125                  15.6     1,620
Std. 1-4                      8.2     1,426                   8.9     ',297
Std. 5-8                     28.9     2,524                 25.7      1,538
Form 1-2                      9.1     3,214                   8.9     2.,1S
Form 3-4                     27.8     2,633                 25.9      2,083
Form 5-6                      4.7     6,277                  4.2      2,389
College                       4.4     6,434                   5.8     2,795
University                    7.5    13,065                  4.9      3,999
Total                         100     4,139                   100     2,037
Source: Calculated from the 1986 ULFS data.



ANNEX 1
55                                              Page 4 of 4
Table 1.7   Training of the Urban Labor Force, 1986
(percentage)
Unemployed                    Paid Employees           Self-Employed
Type of Training         Males       Females    Total           Males  Females             Males   Females
Private
Mone                         73.6       69.5      -1.5            61.         74            54.5      74.7
Friend/relative                3.6      10.5       7.2            4.5       0.7             27.3      21.8
Apprenticeship                   1       0.1       0.5            1.6          0             3.3       0.5
On the job                     5.9       1.4       3.5            15.        6.7             4.8       0.7
On the job course
by employers               3.9        1.1       2.4            7.9       3.3              1.7       0.6
Colleges or schools           10.2      15.6        13            9.3        1.2             8.4       1.7
No report                      1.9       1.8       1.8              0          0               0         0
Public
None                          85.8      92.6      89.4            66.      65.6             86.4      94.1
Vocational school              1.8       0.2          1           3.2        0.9             1.9       4.3
Village Politechnic            3.3       1.8       2.5               2       0.7             2.5       0.S
Inst. of Technology              0       0.2       0.1            2.4       0.4              1.1       0.1
Nat. Youth Service             0.4       0.3       0.4            0.7        0.4               0         0
Politechnic                   4.9        0.1       2.4            3.8       2.6              0.6       0.6
College                        0.3       2.4       1.4              15     23.6                1       0.3
University                    0.8        0.6       0.7            6.3        5.7             6.5       0.2
No report                      2.6       1.8       2.2              0          0               0         0
Source, urban Labor Force Survey, 1986.
Table 1.8 International Comparison of Laobr Productivity. 1970-88
(percentage)
Indices (1980.100)                            Gro,wth Rate it Cp-%
Sector                        1970      1978      1983      1988              1970-78   1979-83   1984-88
Economy-wide
Developed countries         77         97       107       131                  2.9        2.0       4.1
Developing countrie         95         97       113       153                  0.3        3.1       6.2
Kenya                       55         99        98        96                  7.6      -0.2       -0.4
Manufacturing
Developed countries         77         97       108       132                  2.9        2.2       4.1
Developing countrie         96         97       114       156                  0.1        3.3       6.S
Kenya                       57         96       105       112                  6.7       1.8        1.3
Source. Tapping Kenya's Potential: A Private Sector Development Strategy, green cover, 1993, World Bank.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
LEGAL AND REGULATORY CONSTRAINTS: ACTS AFFECTING THE INFORMAL SECTOR
RECOMMENDED ACTIONS FOR ENABUNG ENVIRONMENT
ACT                      PURPOSE                   POSSIBLE PROBLEMS                 REMEDY                            REQUIRED ACTIONS
1. Trade Licensing       -Control certain          -Licensing procedure            -Amend the Trade               - The Ministries of Commerce, Industry, Ftnance
Act (CAP 497)          specified trades In       is too cumbersome for           Licensing Act to               and Local Government to initiate a review of
those areas declared      ordinary person to             streamline registration         Trade Licensing Act as a preparation of the
to be general             understand.                     system (e.g. one stop          amendment in Parliament.
business areas.           -Valid for one year.            service).                      - Review all other acts dealing with licensing to
-one stop service            reduce the multiplicity of too many requirements
-consolidation of            for registration such as the local authority
licenses                     By-Laws requiring permission under LUcensing
-elimination of annual       and Control of Trades and Occupation.' Based on
renewal                     the findings, consolidate the licensing
-Graduate the fees by        procedure.
the size of firms.
2. Registration          -Make provision for        -Too centralized.              -Decentralize the process.     - The Attorny General to initiate decentralization
of Business            the registration of        -Lack of registration           -Consolidate.                  of the officers dealing with registration and
Names Act              firms and individuals      blocks access to credit                                       licensing to facilitate convenience for the
(CAP 499)              to update info.            and getting licenses.                                          businesses in other districts to register.
on business               -Conditions of the Act.                                        - Given the limited funds to manage ofrices at
activities.                                                                              district level. mobile registration offices
may be recommended.
3. Local                 -Standardize               -Inappropriate                 -The Local Government to       -Ministries of local Government, Public Works, and
Government              buildings within          building standards.            amend appropriate sections      Health to initiate a review of the Building Order,
Adoptive                local authorities.        -Inhibition of                  of the Act to allow            in consultation with the Building Research
By-Laws                                           recycling waste                temporary buildings and         Department in University of Nairobi.
(Building)                                         materials.                     use of waste building          (MRTT&T initiation and coordination)
Order 1968                                                                        materials, e.g. paper,
plastics, iron, etc.



ACT                     PURPOSE                  POSSIBLE PROBLEMS                REMEDY                           REQUIRED ACTIONS
4. The Electric         -Enhance the              -Unbalanced                    -Allow (or bulkd) a           -Ministry of Energy to initiate a review by KPLC
Power Act              distribution of          installation levies.           mechanism for future          of the energy charge mechanism to consumers
(CAP 314)              power In urban and        -section 28(b) excludes       users to connect power        when they need transformers.
rural areas.             IS enterprises which           from transformers by          -Ministry of Energy to amend s27.
are "subiect of an            sharing cost.
order for demolition."        -Amend the section to
-Umits of distribution       facilitate distribution of
of power within               power to Jua KaiL.
200 yards frorn
distribution point (s27).
5. Vagrancy Act         -Restrain Africans        -Harassment of IS             -Amend the Act to             -Office of President to initiate amendment of
from "loitering" In       operators under this          protect the IS from           section 2 (definition) of the Vagrancy Actto
the cities and the        Act.                          harassment.                   protect lawful business (self-employment) by
whites only areas.                                                                    removing discriminatory requirements.
6. Chiefs'              -Make provisions In       -Too many powers are          -Amend the Act to protect      -Office of President and MRTT&T to Initiate
Authority Act         regard to the powers       allowed for chiefs to        the IS from harassment.        amendment of the relevant sections through
(CAP 128)              and duties of chiefs.    issue orders regarding                                       clearly identifyng chiefs' powers corresponding
prevention of crime                                         to modem Kenyan society.
and other social
disorder, leading to
harassment of the IS.
(s8 and 812).
7. Public Order         -Make provisions for      -Broad definition of            -Amend the Act to protect   -Office of President and MRTT&T to initiate
Act (CAP 66            the maintenance of        "offensive weapon" and        lawful IS activities from     a review of the Act and amendment based on the
public order, and         *unlawful purpose" are        the abuse of the pollce      findings.
for related purposes.     used to Justify the           and other government
abuse of the IS.              officials.
oXi



ACT                     PURPOSE                 POSSIBLE PROBLEMS                REMEDY                          REQUIRED ACTIONS
B. Public Health        -Set up health           -Many of the By-Laws          -More flexible By-Laws.       -Ministry of Indury in conjunction with Ministry
Act (CAP 242)         standards on food         with too high etandards                                     of Public Works and Housing to Identify building
processng, sewae,        (e.g. 8126 (9 9 of                                          materials which are reasonable and affordable
and disposal with        this Act).                                                  by the entrepreneurs.
regard to buildings.                                                                (MRTT&T Initiation and coordination)
9. Mombaa Shop          -Regulate shop hours     -The Act discriminates        -Repeal the AcL               -The Ministry of Commerce should Iiblate to
Hours Act             for the Arabs aong        the sae of the                                              repeal the Act by alowing the major foodstuff
(CAP 2324             the coast.                 oodstuf th should                                         such as rice, sugar. posho meal. etc. to be sold
be sold witdn the                                          at extwnded hours.
opening ad closing                                         -Extend closing hours to 9 p.m..
time.
O.Shop Hour Act         -Control Asia            -Scheduling the sal           -Repeal this Act.             Minity of Comme to initiate remoali ot
(CAP 2S1)             businesss.                of fodstuff after                                          the Act
cln tim does
not tally with
moden Kenyan life- 
a-.
I .Employment Act       -Pt wkrs                 -Women cannot be               emove the secions            -Ministry of Labor to bnnul Fte nocesary
(CAP 22)              wth regrd to              emplyed In industry           dscriminatory                 amendmet to the Act
wage paynt.              wdalnmining                   against em _pnt
work hours. and          or dangeous manua             owomen.
genralwlare              work. This oftn
odemployees.             abused as a
discriminatory action
againstwomen.
^ These Acts are lsed loosely in the order of cevertyofcon6traints to the informal sector.
based on the consulbton with Jkta Kais, MRTT&T offcils, and oher reated groups.
ff



THE ACTS AFFECTING ACCESS TO TRAINING, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
ACT                     PURPOSE                  POSSIBLE PROBLEMS                REMEDY                           REQUIRED ACTIONS
1. The Industriat       -Make provisions          -No representation of         -Industrial Training Act       -In-depth study of the relevance and cost-
Training Act           for training             the Informal sector            and system to be modem-       efficiency ot industrial training levy
(CAP 237)              people in the             In the National               ized; I.e.. informal sec-     and trade testing system and preparation of
Industrial sector.        Training Council (NITC)       tor representatves to be      action plan to modernize these. Inctuding the
and related committees;      Included in the NITC.          amendment of relevant Acts, if necessary.
therefore, their              -Trade test system to be      -Carry out policy review process of
interests and sidll           modernized and expanded       skills training and draft National
needs are not reflected       to Include broader range      Training Strategy truly responsive to
in training programs          of sidlls and set             industry's sidll requirements.
under this Act.               performance standards.
-For the same reason,
the Informa sector
slilde and technologies
are not reflected
In the associated
trade test system.
2. cience and           -Create an advisory       -Thb informal sector           -The informal sector to      -MRTT&T to amend sectbns 5 and 9 of this Act to
Technology Act        function for the           is not represented            be represented in the         change the constitution of the members of the
(CAP 280)              Govemment. i.e. the       in the NCST or its            Council and related           Council.
National Council for      committees.                   committees.
Science and
Technology,
(NCST).
3. Education Act        -Make provision for       -to draft National            -Amend relevant sections       -MRTT&T to initiate action foliewing the Industrial
(CAP 211)              education and training    Training Strategy             If necessary                  Training Levy and Trade Testing assessments
in the publi sector       relevant sections
may need to be
amended In order
to include provisions
for sldls upgrading
o #



60
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
LETTER OF INFORMAL SECTOR POLICY AND ACTION PLAN
1.     The Kenyan economy faces a formidable employment challenge to resolve widespread
unemployr ent and underemployment as a result of slow economic growth and rapid population
growth. The estimated total labor force of 10.2 million in 1991 is expected to grow at an average
rate of about 4.1 percent between 1991 and 2000, which requires creating an average of 492,000
new jobs per year. If present trends continue, modem wage employment growing at 3.6% per
year will generate only 612,000 of the required jobs and in the small farm sector another 1.8
million by the year 2000. This leaves the balance of 2.5 million jobs to be created primarily in
me rural non-farm  and urban micro- and small enterprise (informal) sector, of which 75 percent
or 190,000 per year will be in the urban areas. A conservative estimate reports a total informal
sector employment of about 600,000 workers in 1991, 60 percent of which are in trade with the
remaining 40 percent halved by manuiacturing and services. Urban centers accounted for nearly
two thirds of total employment, while Nairobi makes up 25 percent of all employment in the
sector. 1/
2.     Over the last decade, the informal sector has made a substantial contribution to the
expansion of employment in Kenya. The informal sector constitutes 98 percent of all businesses
in the country and contributes 30 percent of total employment. Furthermore, three quarters of
jobs outside smallholding agriculture are created in this sector. Over the past two years, informal
sector employment grew at 14 percent per annum as compared to 2.3 percent in the modem wage
sector. The manufacturing sub-sector, in particular, showed higher employment growth (19%).
The informal sector manufacturing firms are an important support system for the modem sector
by providing domestic inputs used by medium and large-scale firms, besides being customers for
mnany goods produced in the modem sector. These two sectors are expected to have closer
linkages in the future through sub-contmcting etc.. While the low capital requirements and high
labor intensity of the informal sector makes it a promising area for absorbing employment, the
high turnover of one- and two- employee firms comprising the majority of informal sector
enterprises also make jobs precarious.
3.     While there is scarce information on the wages and income of the informal sector, the
few available statistics confirm the common perception that the informal sector workers comprise
the lower income group. For example, the 1991 estimates in Nairobi indicate Jua Kalis' average
monthly wage of Ksh 740 which is substantially below the minimum monthly wage of Ksh 964 in
Nairobi. A recently published Economic Survey, 1993 shows that an average income of informal
sector worker headed households is lower than formal sector worker's households: Ksh 3,420
versus Ksh 3,749 in Nairobi and Ksh 2,284 versus Ksh 3,498 in Eastern Province. Development
I/     The infonnal sector is an ambiguous term which describes a wide variety of types of smanl enterprises,
sometimes defined by 1--flhness or legality of activides, other times by number of employees, assets, amount of energy
use, etc. The proposed project adopts size of establishment measured by number of employees so that its beneficiaries can
be easily identified. Accordingly, the working definition is adopted to cover micro and small enterprises hiring less than
fifty employees. Further, the termn Jua Kali' is used colloquialy to refer to enterprises specializing in the manufacture of
products and providing productive services, rather than traders per so, who are the majority of informal sector
enftepreneurs. (See Para. 2.1, SAR for details.)



61
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
of the informal sector, therefore, would contribute to poverty reduction by facilitating the active
participation of the Jua Kali in the economy.
IoLSorPoIicy
4.    In recent years, the Government of Kenya recognized the importance of the informal
sector in employment creation, income distribution, and rural-urban balance as spelled out in its
key sectoral policy papers. Sessional Paper No. I of 1986 on "Economic Management for
Renewed Growth' highlighted the informal and small-scale enterprises as a primary vehicle for
social and economic development. In line with the themes developed in this Sessional Paper, the
Sixth National Development Plan, 1989-93, acknowledged the neglect of the informal sector in
the past economic planning process and proposed the government's role as a catalyst and a
facilitator to promote the informal sector, leaving a major role for the private sector. Sessional
Paper No. 2 of 1992 on 'Small Enterprise and Jua Kali Development in Kenya" sets a
comprehensive policy framework which includes: (a) providing direct assistance for management
and entrepreneurial training and skill upgrading to individual entrepreneurs and small scale
enterprises; (b) promoting the transition of micro and small scale enterprises into medium size
enterprises; (c) expanding access to credit for the informal sector; (d) disseminating information
on market and appropriate technologies; and (e) providing enabling environment through
redressing licensing, tax, security of worksite and other regulatory restrictions on the informal
sector activities. The 1992 Sessional Paper foresees a major role for Ministry of Research,
Technical Training and Technology (MRTT&T) in the development and implementation of the
appropriate strategies to achieve these goals.
5.    The above mentioned policies have been implemented and the developed strategies have
been translated into actions if not to a full extent and at a slow pace. A database on institutions
involved in small-scale enterprise development activities has been established in order to give the
entrepreneurs the information for specific guidance ani assistance. Sheds (sites, services and
simple infrastructure) have been built for the small-scale and Jua Kali enterprises, and 60% of
ownership has already been transferred to the targeted beneficiaries. Moreover, MRTT&T
introduced entrepreneurship education in existing institutions and established Small Business
Centers (SBC) attached to the training institutions and Jua Kali Associations and other donor
sponsored projects to promote business skill acquisition and entrepreneurial behavior. The 1993
policy framework for MRTT&T foresees a more facilitating role than direct management of the
sector, including Jua Kali mobilization, skill upgrading, enabling environment, marketing and
publicity, applied technology and research and development services.
6.    The Government, while implementing the policies, realized that the development of the
informal sector would require the policy reform on the private sector as a whole, since the former
shares most of the constraints the latter faces. Accordingly, the recent bold steps taken by the
Government to promote the private sector development --ongoing parastatal reform, relaxation of
price control, elimination of import licensing in most areas and deregulation of interest rates--
would contribute to the provision of a better business environment for both formal and informal
enterprises. It is, however, admitted that the informal sector still suffers from a variety of
obstacles such as insecurity of worksites, limited access to formal credit, low skill levels, and
inability to acquire information on marketing and technology opportunities. In order to develop
the sector's full potential for employment creation and income generation more rapidly and in a
sustainable manner, a comprehensive strategy will encourage: (a) less State interference in private
sector decision making; (b) new boundaries between public and private sectors, e.g. no



62                           Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
government interference in private sector decisions on labor redundancies and wage guidelines; (c)
more labor market mobility; (d) export competitiveness; and (e) a shift of subsidies to wherever
we most clearly observe market failure due to poverty, e.g. vouchers. The Government intends
to pursue this strategy by reforming policies such as training, the legal and regulatory framework
and finance. This would be done on the basis of greater private sector involvement and cost
sharing.
7.    At the present time, the training system needs to be modernized for several reasons. It is
not flexible enough to prepare the workforce, including micro- and small enterprises, with the
technical skill upgrading required for new jobs and technologies as the structure of the economy
changes. Although there is some excess training capacity, there -re many unsustainable technical
training institutes that perpetuate low grade training, especially that provided by the Youth
Polytechnics (YPs). The Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) are only oriented to the large and
medium scale industries, although they now offer evening courses for Jua Kali artisans. The
trade test system does not adequately reflect new or informal skills and technologies, that are
found in the informal sector.
8.    As a whole, the current training system is ineffective and financially unsustainable in that:
(a) training provisions are not matched to demand, (b) consumers have little or no choice in the
type of training they want and need, (c) there is little evidence that technical/vocational training
creates jobs or generates income, and (d) private sector participation is low. There is a clear need
for more relevant employer-based training which would also facilitate moving skill upgrading
closer to productivity and employment. While the Industrial Training Levy is an important
private source of financing training in the various industries, at present the levy system needs
modernization in order to have an impact on labor productivity.
Steps Toward a National Traiinng Stratea
9.    To address the above issues, the Government, through the MRTT&T, intends to develop a
long term National Training Strategy. It would be more responsive to productive sector training
needs and based on (i) an assessment of the Industrial Training Levy scheme, (ii) an evaluation of
the trade test and certification system, and (iii) a policy review process for skills training. These
would result in a draft National Training Strategy elaborating, among others, future objectives,
organization and management, as well as financing and content (institutions, curricula and
certification) of the future training systems.
10.   Further development and implementation of a National Training Strategy would be an
outcome of the Institutional Development Component of the project under the Policy Analysis,
Monitoring and Evaluation sub-component. Both policy analysis capacity and the implementation
of the Project Training Fund would facilitate project sustainability and long term sectoral
development. For instance, the Project Training Fund design provides a model of a demand
driven skill training system embodying the principles proposed for the National Training Strategy:
(a) relevance (demand-driven), (b) quality and efficiency, and (c) financial sustainability (i.e.,
budget allocation will be competitive and gradually shift from subsidy to cost sharing) allowing
training institutions more autonomy for financing.



63
Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
11.   The Project Training Fund would develop financing mechanisms, i.e., a Jua Kali training
fund as well as experience and lessons to be incorporated in the modernization of the Industrial
Training Levy scheme and thus enable project sustainability. This process is likely to involve
consolidation and privatization of training, facilitating a larger role for the private sector and
enterprises in skills training, especially regarding training facilities and cost sharing, and
improving mechanisms linking the Government, industry and workers.
Informal Sector Enablinn Environment
12.   The informal sector faces various institutional obstacles to entry, exit, and operation --
including growth and contraction of an enterprise. Some of these obstacles are shared by the
private sector as a whole but tend to affect the informal sector more seriously, while others affect
the informal sector only. To be more specific, while the informal sector suffers from the general
constraints such as lack of macroeconomic discipline, an uneven enforcement of laws and
excessive regulations, and poor infrastructure, it is further constrained by lack of worksite
security and basic infrastructure and limited access to formal credit. These factors are again
mutually reinforcing.
13.   Enterprises in Kenya are required both to register and obtain the various licenses. These
requirements may inhibit starting and operating informal sector enterprises due to their
complicated process and high monetary and transaction costs. The registration process ipvolves
two stages: first, company registration with the Registrar of Companies in the Office of the
Attorney General, and second, a series of mandatory national registration with various line
ministries. Without registration, licenses cannot be obtained thereby blocking access to formal
credit. Under the Registration of Business Names Act, company registration is automatic but may
be cumbersome for informal sector entrepreneurs since it can only be carried out in Nairobi.
While the registration fee is trivial for small-scale enterprises, it can cost up to four percent share
value to larger limited liability companies, therefore, being a detriment to the growth of
enterprises in the long run. The second stage requires five separate registrations from four
ministries: manufactures registration and Bureau of Standards (Ministry of Commerce and
Industry), National Social Security Fund and Occupational Health (Ministry of Labor and
Manpower Development), the Central Bureau of Statistics (Ministry of Planning and National
Development) and local authorities (Ministry of Local Government). While registration
applications are rarely denied, the procedures are complicated and frequent delays are reported,
leading to large transaction costs for quick completion. The Management Information System
(MIS) has been recently introduced in the Attorney General's Office to expedite the process, but
the procedure would be decentralized to be able to register outside Nairobi and be further
combined and simplified.
14.   There are three main classes of licenses affecting the informal sector: national licenses
required under the Trade Licensing Act (TLA), those under other special Acts, e.g. health and
tourism, etc. and the licenses issued by local authorities. National licenses are isstied according
to the type of business activity: Trade License for manufacturing, General License for
wholesaling, a Retailers License for retail distribution, etc.. Licenses are also issued for specific
localities and product/service lines and any changes in these characteristics require official
revision. Each license is valid only for one year and its renewal requires the same procedures as
starting new firms. The license fees vary by activity and location but are not graduated by the
size of the firm, discriminating against small-scale firms. In 1992, Trade License fees were Ksh
6,600 in Nairobi and Ksh 3,300 elsewhere. These were too high to be paid annually by the



64
Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
informnal sector operators. In addition to national licenses, there are a range of licenses required
by the local authorities. There is no statutory requirement for harmonization across local
authorities in the number of licenses or the level of fees. Since local licenses are issued in a
manner similar to national licenses, the adverse effect of local licenses is more serious on the
informal than the formal sector for the same reasons. In principle, obtaining a license should not
be difficult nor too expensive, but, in practice, it is cumbersome and costly: there are no explicit
criteria for refusing to grant a license and no formal mechanism for redress, leaving wide scope
for harassment and rent seeking in the licensing process. The Trade Licensing Act would be
amended to streamline the licensing processes through consolidation of licenses, establishment of
a "one stop service" for acquisition of licenses and elimination of the current annual renewal
requirement.
15.   Another major institutional barrier to entry into the informal sector is found to be the lack
of access to land for enterprises, in particular access to a title deed on the land. Absence of lIngal
titles contributes to lack of access to credit and to ha .ment by local authorities, and provides
disincentives for development of and investment in t..  -orksite preventing improvements in
technology and productivity. In order to solve this problem, the Government will ensure that
more public land is allocated to Jua Kalis in order to facilitate their access to urban land and thus
create security of worksites.
16.   In addition to these constraints to entry and growth of the informal sector shared by the
informal sector, there are various other legal, regulatory barriers which specifically affect
operation of the informal sector only. For instance, the Vagrancy Act. Chief Authority and
Public Nuisance Acts are outdated laws enacted in the colonial times to control the Africans.
These laws, however, justify local authorities' harassment for the informal sector and therefore
hamper the growth of the sector. There are a range of laws regulating building standards such as
Local Government Adoptive By-Laws (Building) Order. and Public Health Act. While these laws
serve different purposes, they set up building standards unrealistic for Jua Kalis who are thereby
subject to harassment. Additional outdated or inappropriate laws which impede the sector are the
Electric Power Act. Shop Hours Act. Mombasa Shop Hours Act, etc.. To promote the sector
development, the Government undertakes to review and amend any laws found to be inhibiting the
operation of the informal and the private sector in general. In this regard, the Govermnent has
already formed several Task Forces to review outdated laws that were enacted in the colonial
times, with a view to having them either repealed or amended accordingly as the case may be.
17.   The laws to be reviewed include those relating to building standards such as the Local
Govermnent Adoptive By-Laws (Building) Order among others. In the case of building standards,
it has been realized that while these laws serve different purposes, they set up unrealistic
standards for most Kenyans. They have also been overtaken by recent research on low cost
building materials.
EFance
18.   Lack of access to credit is a major obstacle to the growth of the informal sector. The
Government, however, recognizes that an increased flow of funds to small scale enterprises will
only be achieved if financing is carried out on a self-sustainable basis, at commercial rates of
interest, mainly through domestic funds mobilization and without subsidies either to the
beneficiaries or the providers of such financing. In this regard, the Government will continue to
pursue the financing of the sector under these principles. The Government will also encourage
the establishment of financial institutions specialized in the financing of the informal sector
enterprises.



65
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
The Acts Affecting the Informal Sector, Recommended
Actions for Enabling Environment
ACT                       REQUIRED ACTIONS                   TIME/
FRAME
1. Trade Licensing      - Initiate a review of the Trade Licensing Act.  June 94
Act (CAP 497)         - Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                         Dec. 94
(in progress)         - Submission of Bill to Parliament.            Dec. 95
2. Registration of      - Initiate decentralization of the officers
Business Names Act     dealing with registration.                   June 94
(CAP 499)            - Submission of draft report of task force
to Attornev General.                         Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
3. Local Government     - Initiate a review of the Building Order.    June 94
Adoptive By-Laws     - Submission of draft report of task force
(Building Order 1968)   to Attorney General.                        Dec. 94
- Submission of draft amendment of by-laws to
responsible Minister.                       June 95
4. The Electric Power    - Initiate a review by KPLC and Ministry of
Act (CAP 314)          Energy to amend Section 27.                  June 94
- Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                         Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
5. Vagrancy Act         - Initiate amendment of Section 2 (definition)
of the Vagrancy Act.                        June 94
- Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                        Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.          Dec. 95
6. Chiefs' Authority Act  - Initiate amendment of the relevant sections
(CAP 128)              through clearly identifying chiefs' powers.  June 94
- Submission of draft report of task force
(in progress)         to Attorney General.                          Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
7. Public Order         - Initiate a review of the Act and amendment
Act (CAP 56)           based on the findings.                       June 94
- Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                         Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
8. Public Health        - Initiate identification of building materials
Act (CAP 242)          which are reasonable and affordable by the
entrepreneurs.                              June 94
- Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                         Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95



66                         Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
9. Mombasa Shop Hours   - Initiate amendment of the Act by allowing
Act (CAP 232)          major foodstuff such as rice, sugar, posho
meal, etc.to be sold at extended hours and
extend closing hours to 9 p.m.              June 94.
- Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                        Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.          Dec. 95
10. Shop Hours Act       - Initiate amendment of the Act.              June 94
(CAP 231)            - Submission of draft removal of the Act of task
force to Attorney General.                   Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
11. Employment Act       - Formulate necessary amendment to the Act.   June 94
(CAP 226)            - Submission of draft report of task force
to Attorney General.                         Dec. 94
- Submission of Bill to Parliament.           Dec. 95
The Acts Affeding Access to Ting, Science and Technology,
Recommended Actions
1. The Industrial        - Undertake assessment of the industrial
Training Act           training levy system and the trade test
(CAP 237)              system and prepare action plan to modernize  Aug. 95
these, including amendment of relevant Acts
if necessary; formalize Jua Kali
representation on the Training Council.
2. The Education Act     - Carry out policy review process of skills
(CAP 211)              training and formulate draft long-term       Dec. 95
Natonal Training Strategy.
3. Science and           - Assess and amend, if necessary, sections 5  - on-going
Technology Act          and 9 of this Act to change the constittion  June 95
(CAP 250)               of the members of the council.
** These Acts are listed loosely in the order of severity of constaints to the informal sector,
based on consultation with Jua Kalis, MRTT&T officials, and other related groups.



MINISTRY OF RESEARCH, TECH. TRAINING & TECHNOLOGY
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
M4INISTER
LP_
FAD                 DIT                  POtS                OAT                     OTT                    ORD
ATU                TUCRT
Fwictimmt leuporuibltity
PS   - Chief EuxcutIve Officer                                                       DlIT  - Dir. Irnis. To. (Assist in OAT. Trg Levy &Trade Tt
FAD  - Pinwrce & Accounts Deotet(Disburse and Accosmts)                              DTT  - Dir. of Tech trg CPtd'. sec. trg provision, YP. Ntls)
POUl - Plaming & Devete  e t Unit(nst. Devt. NoeVEvat)                                ORD  - Di r. of Res. & Devt CNgt of AMp. Research Program)
PAT  - Directorate ofApied Tedhnoogy (ProJect coordination)
AIVU   APPlied Teh.U it(nfrastrurtuire Nanamuent)
TG   - Trainfing & Gender Unit - (Trg. Fund Nuwgiewnt)                                                                                            l
CRT    Centre for Reserch aN  Technology (Tech. Exc. & Tours)



NATIONAL JUA KALI FEDERATION
PROPOSED ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE
CHAIRW        |                                     National Level
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
&                              P~~~~~~~HASAER
TECtIMLOGY                 TRAIUINIG                 INFRA DEVT                  NRKETING                       CREDIT
& GENDER
OFFICER                   OFFICER                    OFFICER                    OFFICER                       OFFICER
District Level
Jua Kali Associations Chairperon
TECHIIOGY                  TRAINING                    INFRA DEVT                    URKETING                       CREDIT
& GENDER
OFFICER                  OFFICER                     OFFICER                        OFFICER                       OFFICER



69                          ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC, OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJE CT
THE KENYA NATIONAL JUA KALI FEDERATION
Background
1.    The Kenya National Jua Kali Federation is an umbrella organization of Jua Kali
associations in Kenya, estimated at more than 400. Each association has approximately 100
to 500 members. The Federation was founded in February 1992 in accordance with the Laws
of Kenya for small enterprises as outlined in the Small Enterprise Strategy Sessional Paper of
May, 1989. One of its main goals is to involve Jua Kali artisans directly in Jua Kali
development activities and to work with the various private sector organizations and
government institutions to ensure that the needs of the Jua Kali artisans are provided for. The
Government assumes a facilitating role.
2.    The associations started forming as far back as 1986. When the Ministry of Technical
Training and Applied Technology (the former MRTT&T) came into existence in 1988, it
encouraged Jua Kali artisans countrywide to forn associations, to make it easier to support
the sector. Many associations were registered with the Registrar General. The Federation, a
national body, was established as a private organization registered under the laws of Kenya to
represent individual Jua Kali artisans through their local associations.
3.    About 300 out of 380 associations countrywide participated in the elections that gave
birth to the Federation in 1992. Since its inception, the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung 1/ (FES)
has been funding the Federation's operations. This relationship originated from FES's long-
term support to the development of Jua Kali entrepreneurs in the form of promoting credit
guarantee schemes which aimed at introducing these entrepreneurs to formal credit and
banking systems. For the scheme to operate effectively and efficiently, it was imperative to
organize the operators/beneficiaries into units of self help organizations called the Credit
Guarantee Associations. This experience in organizing the Jua Kali entrepreneurs became
very valuable during the initial phases of organizing the Kenya National Federation of Jua
Kali Associations.
4.     At the formative stage of the Federation, the FES provided support and advise on how
to organize an effective apex body for Jua Kali operators. Firstly, in February 1992, FES
agreed to fund the first delegates' conference which inaugurated the Federation. The first
national chairman and 24 officials (three from each province) were elected on February 26,
1992. The elections were held under the supervision of the MRTT&T. Secondly, in May
1992, FES funded the first Board of Directors management workshop at the Government
Training Institute (GTI) in Mombasa which provided useful insights into proper management
approaches including drawing up long term planning strategies for future growth of the
Federation. 2/
I/    Foundation.
2/     National Federatiou of Jua Kali Associations. Lone Termn Strategic Planning Workshop. GTI: Mombasa
25th to 28th May 1992. Draft Report prepared by T. Ochien'g Oyieke.



70
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
Aims and Objectives - Short and Long Term Strategy Plan 31
5.     The establishment of the Kenya National Federation of Jua Kali Associations was
aimed at creating an institution to represent the interests of Jua Kali operators which in tuM
would improve their business growth and provide a pressure group base.
More specifically, the Federation would:
- establish a dialogue with the Government about the needs, opportunities and
responsibilities of the Jua Kali sector;
- seek and ensure better recognition of the Jua Kali sector by the Government and
local authority, and assist the Government to create an enabling policy environment for Jua
Kalis;
- act as a primary vehicle for consultation, exchange of experience and coordination
between all ministries, financial institutions, donor agents, and NGOs;
- provide a consultative platform where the search for policy direction and programs
as well as review of the results relating to Jua Kali activities, can be shared;
- improve Jua Kali performance and economic development of the sector (i.e.,
increase the operators' income) by facilitating access to training, skill upgrading, production
technologies and infrastructure;
- improve market awareness by both Jua Kali artisans and their clients through local
and external trade exhibitions and fairs, show rooms for Jua Kali products, Jua Kali trade
magazine, catalogue of Jua Kali products for export, and air time on radio and TV;
- provide increased and better market outlets through strategies on marketing
channels, government tenders for local markets and sub-contracting with larger informal (and
formal) enterprises;
- improve access to finances by Jua Kali operators through issuance of title deeds on
Jua Kali plots to be used as collateral, establishing credit guarantee schemes, and pooling of
funds to create credit schemes in primary associations.
Constitution and Rules 4/
6.     The Federation as a private organization registered under the Laws of Kenya and
subject to statutory regulations. The elected office bearers of the Federation include the
National Chairman, the National Vice Chairman, the National Secretary, the National
Assistant Secretary, the National Treasurer, and 16 provincial representatives, 2 from each
province. They constitute the Board of Directors and are elected at the members
3/     Kenya National Pederation of Jua Kali Associatins. Short and Lom Tenn Strateev Plan. Nairobi.
Jnualy 1993.
neKThe Kenya National Federation of Jua Kali Associations. Constitution and Rules. Nairobi, June 1993.



71                          ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
representative meeting to be held every 5 years. All office bearers hold office from the date
of the election until the 5th succeeding annual members representative meeting. Elections
may be supervised by officers of the ministry in charge of the Jua Kali sector. The Board
meets twice a year and is chaired by the National Chairman.
7.    The Federation shall by resolution in the General Meeting appoint no less than 3 and
not more than 5 Trustees in whom shall be vested all its property under the direction of the
Board. The Trustees have authority to generally represent and act for the Federation in
matters of business transactions. Each Trustee shall apply for incorporation under the
Perpetual Succession Act in the name of "Registered Trustees of the Kenya National
Federation of Jua Kali Associations."
8.    The Federation has an Executive Committee consisting of: the Chairman, Vice
Chairman, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Organizing Secretary, the Executive Director and
the Trustees of the Federation. The Committee meets once in every quarter.
Management of the Federation
9.    The Federation has a permanent Searetariat based at its headquarters in Nairobi and
other branches as may be deemed fit from time to time by the Board of Directors. The
Secretariat is headed by the executive officer who acts in an advisory capacity to the Board of
Directors. See Annex 4, Chart 2 for the administrative structure of the National Jua Kali
Federation and Jua Kali Associations.
10.   The Board of Directors in consultation with the Secretariat and the Trustees manages,
controls, and improves the entire assets, immovable and movable of the Federation and
collects and administers in its discretion the revenue of the Federation. The Board has the
power to borrow money upon such terms and conditions (and invest the funds) as it sees fit,
in consultation with the Trustees.
11.   The Board of Directors is empowered to by-laws for regulating the affairs of the
Federation and the Jua Kali sector, including the appointment of auditors. The books of
account and all documents relating thereto and a list of the members shall be availed for
inspection at the registered office of the Federation by any officer or member of the
Federation.
12.   The Board has absolute control and management of all Jua Kali exhibitions organized
by the Federation and full power over all premises belonging or leased by the Federadon.
The Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may perform their respective duties
through sub-committees.
Membership
13.   Any registered (at MRTT&T) Jua Kali association is eligible for membership of the
Federation on payment of an entrance fee and subject to the approval of the Board of
Directors.
14.   Every individual artisan pays a monthly subscription fee (at present Ksh 10), to be
determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, through his/her member association.



72
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
15.   Any member association may be expelled (or may resign) from membership if the
Executive Committee and Board of Directors so recommend, i.e., if proven guilty of any
improper or dishonest conduct.
16.   In general, the Jua Kali artisan does not fall under the Workman's Compensation Act
nor is he/she an employee in the true sense of the word. Many Jua Kalis are self-employed
and work under conditions that are likely to cause harm to them and they will not be able to
recover the loss from anywhere. The question has been asked whether Jua Kali artisans
should be provided for under an independent Act of Parliament so that they are protected.
Sources of Revenue and Federation Sustainability
17.   At present, the Federation is being funded by the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung which
strongly supports the idea of the Federation. FES has committed itself to fund office space
and staff salaries (i.e., the Executive Officer, Secretary/Manager) and other operating
expenses until December 1993. The long-term goal is to become self-sustaining mainly
through: registration fees (which is Ksh 500 at present), the individual monthly contribution
fee (which is Ksh 10 at present), and services that the Federation will be giving. These
include profits from the Business Development Centres (BDC), selling materials, tools,
equipment and spare parts, interest from credit schemes, fee for using machinery at the BDC
and profit from the Jua Kali magazine, rental fee from the Federation premises.
18.   There are approximately between 100 and 500 members per association. It is
expected that members' contribution and subscriptions will keep on growing year after year.
This requires above all sustainability of the Federation and recruitment of members.
However, other factors will determine the extent to which the Federation will succeed in
recruitment, including: the leadership and the commitment of the Federation officials and the
secretariat staff as well as the Jua Kali Associations' officials; the political climate in the
country; and the tangible benefits (i.e., improved access to training and technology) for
artisans and enterprises.
19.   Most potential members will join the Federation when they can see the benefits of
doing so. However, the indirect benefits, although they affect almost everyone equally, seem
to be less of an incentive. These include Jua Kali policies and other laws that affect the Jua
Kali business growth. These general benefits are the most important to the sector as they
create an enabling environment. The direct benefits, such as access to training, infrastructure,
credit facilities, title deeds etc., are strong incentives to join the Federation. Therefore, the
role of Federation officials and association leaders is very crucial in explaining to the artisans
the benefits of having a Federation.
20.   In the absence of a viable extension network to diffuse new technologies, skills and
information directly to Jua Kali operators, the associations are a bonafide private sector
institutional apparatus to perform this function. The Federation is presently engaged in a
national recruitment drive to enlist existing associations and help form new ones.



73
ANNEX S
Page 5 of 6
Financial Estimates for 1993
Sources of Revenue:
Grants in Aid                     Ksh 6,536,664.00
Association membership
registration fees                 Ksh  105,000.00      70% of about
300 associations
Ksh 500 per
association
Monthly membership
subscriptions                     Ksh 1,080,000,00    30% of 30,000
member-contributions
Ksh 10 per member
per month
Total revenue       Ksh 7,721,664.00
E3penditures:
Staff costs                       Ksh  810,664.00
Operating expenses                Ksh 2,541,200.00
Cost of capital
equipment                         Ksh 1,655,000.00
Training/education
recruitment efforts               Ksh 2,714,000.00
Total expenditure   Ksh 7,721,664.00
Mombasa Jua Kali Association _/
21.   The Association has 840 paid up active members. It is registered with the Registrar
of Societies and therefore subject to statutory regulations. The Association Committee,
comprising a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer, is
elected annually by the association members. Audited accounts are produced annually and
circulated to the members prior to the annual general meeting.
5/    Ihis case study is based on staiscs from the Mombasa Jua Kali Assocation tt_bhip foms and a
survey conducted by J. Stevens, Technical Coopeion Officer, Mmasa Polytechic (October, 1990).



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
22.   The working conditions of these Jua Kali members are diverse and range from
established workshops with premises to operations carried out completely in the open with no
protection from the environment. Many artisans operate their businesses on the side of the
road.
23.   The present law is not clear on the question of whether or not Jua Kali artisans should
be taxed and if so, what are the modalities involved in such taxation, including the operation
of VAT. Jua Kali artisans are often illiterate and do not understand the constitutions either of
their associations or the Federation. Thus, they may not know the legal limits within which
they must operate.
24.   A sample of 224 paid up members of the Mombasa Jua Kali Association, about one
third of the total membership, was taken for analysis and the results are shown below:
- The 224 JK members employ 745 workers and 462 trainees which is an average of
5 people per JK member.
- The majority of JK members employ both workers and trainees:
- 175 of the members employ one or more workers
- 146 of the members have trainees
- 134 of the members employ workers and have trainees
- 46 of the members work alone
- Over 94 of the registered members operate without premises. In some cases a
workshop is given for a roadsiJe working area. The average workshop size for the sample is
approximately 3500 square feet. Without doubt a high percentage of those with premises
operate in restricted or unfavorable conditions.
- Bank accounts are held by most of the JK members, although very few have
bankloans. Partnerships are not a common feature accounting for about 20% of the
membehip.
- Only 29 members have received full time training in a training institution (less than
six months).
- The most dominant activity of the JK members is metal fabrication and welding.
Other activities comprise carpentry and woodwork, motor vehicle, blockmaking and building,
handeraft and dressmaking, general engineering, and electical wiring. Welding machines,
hand drills and hand tools are common, but there is a serious shortage of machine tools.



75                         ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TI4NING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
STRUCTURE, CAPACITY AND FINANCING OF THE TRAINING (VET) SECTOR
Traning Institutions, Capacity and Progams
1.    Vocational Education and Training (VET) in Kenya is generally identified with the
formal training system. However, it is estimated that there are about 2,000 training
institutions of different types in the country. These include private training institutes with an
estimated annual enrollment of about 23,500 and approximately 100 Public Service Institutes
under the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) which facilitates skill upgrading for
about 11,000 civil servants.
2.    Basic statistics of formal training differ and should be taken as an approxination: the
number of institutions, their total enrollment and their annual intake and outputs. This is due
to a lack of technical capacity to monitor and evaluate a wide range of training institutions for
which MRTT&T, a relatively new ministry, has inherited responsibility.
3.    The formal technical and vocational training sector in Kenya comprises the following
levels: (1) artisan, 2 years; (2) craftsman, 3 years; (3) technician, 3 years; (4) technologist, 2
years. In principle, each level includes a compulsory period of industrial apprenticeship, i.e.,
6 months for artisan and technologist students and 9 months for craftsmen and technician
students. Five types of institutions offer training at the various levels: The Youth
Polytechnics (YP) and the National Youth Service (NYS) offer training at the artisan level.
The Industrial Training Centers (ITC), the Institutes of Technology (IT) and the Technical
Training Institutes (TTM) offer training at the craftsman level. The National Polytechnics (NP)
train technicians. The state universities train technologists and masters of technology.
Public Training Istitutions
Youth Polytechnics - YP (330)
Technical Training Institutes - TTI (18)
Institutes of Technology - IT (17)
Industial Training Centers - ITC (Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa)
Kenya Textile Training Institute - KTTI (Nairobi)
National Polytechnics - NP (Nairobi, Mombasa, Eldoret)
Kenya Technical Teachers Training College - KTTC (Nairobi)
Universities (of Nairobi, Kenyatta, Egerton, Jomo Kenyatta
University of Agriculture and Technology and Moi University)
4.    Thie main artisan or first level training institutions are the YPs whose main objective
is to equip primary school leavers with artisan skills for self or other employment. There are
about 590 YPs, 260 of which are community supported. In 1989, total enrollment was



76                                 ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 13
estimiated at about 40,000. Given the training duration of two years, this implies an annual
intake of about 20,000.
5.      Table 1 (page 10) shows enrollments and capacity in the various training institutions.
The actual capacity for the YPs is not known, but estimated at about 70 percent. In addition
to the YPs, there are 16 National Youth Service (NYS) training centers and the Christian
Industrial Training Centers (CITCs), which also provide artisan level training.1/
Underutilization is as follows: TTI: 28.8%  of existing facilities; IT: 32%; NP: 11.7%. Low
enrollment is mainly in higher diploma courses rather than in diploma courses at the NPs.
This is caused by a shortage of students who meet entry requirements coupled with
employers' unwillingness to sponsor higher diplon.as for their workers. In addition, more
flexibility in NPs appears to be required to meet stuc:-nts' demand for training, e.g., removal
or revision of unpopular courses such as welding and fabrication offered as diploma courses.
The full utilization of KTTC faci'ties accounts for demand for teaching positions in technical
training.
6.      The number of apprentices sponsored by irdustry has been declining to less than 50%
of operating capacity. The low enrollme!o. -i the ITCs is probably due to a decrease in the
number of apprentices caused by low indusiial economic activity. However, more needs to
be known about the incentives or disincentives for established industries to provide on-the-j .
training for employees and to take on apprentices/trainees. Currently, the ITCs enroll a
growing number of self-sponsored trainees. Evening skill upgrading courses are also
increasing.
7.      Another explanation for low enrollments may be inadequate recruitment practices.
The DIT is responsible for allocating apprentices to the three ITCs. At times students from
Mombasa may be sent to Nairobi. The policy of distributing the students around the country
requires each institution to have boarding facilities. The same holds true for ITs and TTIs,
wh', advertise nationwide for students for the various trades. All applicants are pooled
centrally and allocated to the institutions on the basis of an equal national distribution.
8.      All told, the number of people with technical, vocational and university training has
almost doubled over the past ten years. However, in 1992, the institutions providing artisan
and craft level training have an annual intaice of no more than 30,000, whereas the pool of
potential recruits averages around 250,000.
9.      Most VET institutions base their courses on the 8-4-4 curriculum. Under the 8-4-4
system introduced in 1985, emphasis is placed on vocational/technical education in the last
two years of primary school and throughout secondary school, and on integrating the large
network of vocational iuaining inqtitutions more closely into the formal system. It appears,
however, difficult to implement this new curriculum because there are not the required
/       Ihe NYS, which is under the Office of the Prcsident, recruits volunteers anmually to undertake large-scale projects,
such as food production, road construction, land clearance, and tree pntng, outside the scope of community self help efforts.
The Christian Industria Training Centres (CITC) of Kenya also provide industrial (engineering crafts) and commercial skills to
needy youths. All centers apart from Kisumu train artisans. The CITC in Kisumu offers secretarial training. CITCs provide
their trainees to serve the church and the nation through the produedon unit while at the center and after completion of the two
year course.



77
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 13
teachers, technology, i.e., additional equipment, nor the funds to do so. Serious concerns
have been expressed by some members of the Kenyan education community about falling
academic standards, considered the tradeoff of a more technically oriented curriculum.
10.   The introduction of the 8-4-4 school system may be contributing to the low enrollment
in the YPs, TTIs and Tis. The system needs ,nstructors with technical qualifications many do
not have. Student fees are also higher. Student confidence in the programs has also declined.
TTIs, for instance, have changed from being technical and trade schools for post-primary
training into technical secondary schools offering a four-year program in academic technical
education and then back again to technical training institutes offering two and three years of
training to primary school leavers. With the introduction of the 8-4-4 system, they now admit
students who have completed forrn four level of (secondary) education.
11.   Changes in craft curriculum development have also affected the three Industrial
Training Centers (ITCs). Craft curriculum development was originally based on the City and
Guilds System, but from 1980 to 1986, with ILO assistance the Government introduced the
concept of modules of employable skills, called the Kenyan Integrated Training System
(KITS). After substantial investments (KSH 6,1 million) the system was abandoned. The
main problems seem to have been short-term vision and planning as well as lack of consensus
regarding course content.
Interna Efficiency
12.    Little is known about internal efficiency. There are no data on drop out and
repetition. The Kenya National Examinations Council undertakes examinations biannually.
Results of July, 1992, are as follows: (1) Very few students from only two YPs took the test.
(2) Only 43.2% of TTI students passed the test. 22.7% failed and 34.1% would take the test
again but do not have to repeat the course. (3) In the ITs the pass rate is 54%, failure rate
9% and referred state 36% (referred means no repetition of courses but of test to advance to
the next grade. (4) The Pass rate in the NPs is 51 %, failure rate 14%, referred state 35%.
13.   Staffing is generally inadequate. There are many vacant positions, common in the
public sector. On average, only 64% of teaching positions in the NPs have been filled. The
high vacancy rate seems to be related to low salaries. An average salary for teachers in NPs
was Ksh 6,259 per month in 1992, about US$ 96.
Training in the Informal (Jua Kali) Sector
14.   Apprenticeship training in this sector accounts for the largest number of trainees.
Sildls of a trade are acquired in the Jua Kali artisans' workshop 2!. Most Jua Kali business
owners nave acquired their own skills within the sector. On average they have more than two
trainees. Apprenticeship training is almost free of charge, although parents pay the
trainer/master a fee up to KSH 2,500. Some Jua Kali entrepreneurs provide their trainees a
small subsistence allowance. However, training in the informal sector often takes place
without any kind of guarantee that the trainee will receive even the minimum level of required
2      In the Jua Kali sector, food processing, metal fabrication, small scale construction businesses can be found, with I to
10 employees, as well as garment, textiles, crafts, and tailoring businesses on an even smaller scale, with I to S employees.



78                         ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 13
teachers, technology, i.e., additional equipment, nor the funds to do so. Serious concerns
have been expressed by some members of the Kenyan education community about falling
academic standards, considered the tradeoff of a more technically oriented curriculum.
10.    The introduction of the 8-4-4 school system may be contributing to the low enrollment
in the YPs, TTIs and TIs. The system needs instructors with technical qualifications many do
not have. Student fees are also higher. Student confidence in the programs has also declined.
TTIs, for instance, have changed from being technical and trade schools for post-primary
artisan training into technical secondary schools offering a four-year program in academic
technical education and then back again to technical training institutes offering two and three
years of training to primary school leavers. With the introduction of the 8-4-4 system, they
now admit students who have completed form four level of (secondary) education.
11.   Changes in craft curriculum development have also affected the three Industrial
Training Centers (ITCs). Craft curriculum development was originally based on the City and
Guilds System, but from 1980 to 1986, with ILO assistance the Government introduced the
concept of modules of employable skills, called the Kenyan Integrated Training System
(KITS). After substantial investments (KSH 6,1 million) the system was abandoned. The
main problems seem to have been short-term vision and planning as well as lack of consensus
regarding course content.
Internal Efficiency
12.    Little is known about internal efficiency. There are no data on drop out and
repetition. The Kenya National Examinations Council undertakes examinations biannually.
Results of July, 1992, are as follows: (1) Very few students from only two YPs took the test.
(2) Only 43.2% of TTI students passed the test. 22.7% failed and 34.1% would take the test
again but do not have to repeat the course. (3) In the IA's the pass rate is 54%, failure rate
9% and referred state 36% (referred means no repetition of courses but of test to advance to
the next grade. (4) The Pass rate in the NPs is 51%, failure rate 14%, referred state 35 %.
13.   Staffing is generally inadequate. There are many vacant positions, common in the
public sector. On average, only 64% of teaching positions in the NPs have been filled. The
high vacancy rate seems to be related to low salaries. An average salary for teachers in NPs
was Ksh 6,259 per month in 1992, about US$ 96.
Trainng in the Infonnal (Jua Kali) Sector
14.   Apprenticeship training in this sector accounts for the largest number of trainees.
Skills of a trade are acquired in the Jua Kali artisans' workshop 2/. Most Jua Kali business
owners have acquired their own skills within the sector. On average they have more than two
trainees. Apprenticeship training is almost free of charge, although parents pay the
trainer/master a fee up to KSH 2,500. Some Jua Kali entrepreneurs provide their trainees a
smal subsistence allowance. However, training in the informal sector often takes place
without any kind of guarantee that the trainee will receive even the minimum level of required
iY    In die Jua Kali sector, food processing, metal fabrication, small scale construction businesses can be ft und, with I to
10 employees, as well as garment, textiles, crafts, and tailoring businesses on an even smaller scale, with I to S employees.



79                          ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 13
trade skills. Some studies suggest that craft training in Jua Kali is frequently scanty,
incomplete and unsystematic, due to limited knowledge levels of the Jua Kali trainers
themselves as well as inadequate facilities and training resources. Qualified instructors (i.e.,
master craftsmen) are extremely limited.
15.   The Directorate of Applied Technology (DAT), which is in charge of Jua Kali
development programs in MRTT&T, has started information gathering and development
program for the Jua Kali sector. The artisans are asked to fill out a questionnaire, providing
basic statistical information on this little known sector, including their apprenticeship
background. After screening by a local Jua Kali association, artisans are registered with
MRTT&T. Artisans are also encouraged to register with the Registrar of Societies, as a
prerequisite for obtaining credit and/or a license to open a business.
16.   Since 1990, 10 Technical Training Institutions have established pilot Small Business
Centers (SBC) to promote entrepreneurship education. These centers also act as test and
workshop sites to conduct a variety of business activities within the local community. SBCs
are supposed to form a close network of facilities also serving nearby businesses and
promoting the development of small and Jua Kali enterprises through linkages between the
training institution and the business community. Services provided both to potential and
practicing entrepreneurs include training in business planning, technical assistance and
information services.
17.    The educational background of Jua Kali entrepreneurs3/ can be described by the
number of years they had education at the various levels (see Table A.). The following
observations can be made: the distribution of primary and secondary attendance is similar to
the national average; only 23.7% of all entrepreneurs received formal technical training in
comparison to 61.2% who had informal (technical) training; only 4.1 % of entrepreneurs
attended commercial training of about 1.3 years on the average.
Table A: The Educational Background of Jua Kali Entrepreneurs in %
Years        Primary      Secondary    Technical    Commercial  Informal
Education    Education    Training      Education    Training
1            0.8          4.9           7.3          3.0           21.2
2            1.2           5.9          11.0         0.8           17.3
3            2.9          6.9           3.4          0.3           9.0
4            4.9           17.8         1.5          -             4.9
5            3.2           1.0          0.3          -             2.7
6            12.2          0.7          0.2          -             2.2
7            37.6         -             -            -             2.2
8            19.1         -             -            -             1.0
9            5.9           -            -            -             1.5
10           3.6          -             -            -             1.4
total        91.4          37.2         23.7         4.1           61.2
3t    See Yambo, 1991.



80                        ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 13
National Trade Testing
18.   The national trade test system was established in 1963. It has grown in size (Table B)
and has become an important source of income for the DIT (190,000 Kenya Pounds in 1992/3
(Table C). Trade testing is the only certification of practical performance ability. However,
the effectiveness of the system has been declining, in part because of the sheer volume
handled and the lack of computerization.
Table B: Trade Tests 1981-1991
Year         Returns
1981          15,936
1982         28,895
1983         16,548
1984         20,496
1985         35,441
1986         27,977
1987         22,213
1988         32,387
1989         52,486
1990         43,844
1991         31,195
Source: DIT, 1992
19.   At present there are 23 apprenticeable trades. With the constant curriculum changes,
the amount of theory and practice in the various programs has also been changing, which has
affected the credibility of the trade test certificate as a reliable indicator of a worker's
practical ability. This undermines a professionally sound base for recruitment of artisans, as
well as their mnobility, in the Kenyan industry, formal and informal.
Financing of Formal Training
20.   The technical and vocational training institutions have a variety of financing sources.
Both development and recurrent budgets may be private (i.e., employers and community),
government and donor supported. The Youth Polytechnics and Institutes of Technology,
many of which owe their origin to community, religious and foreign donor initiatives,
continue to receive community and parental support. The Government provides instructors as
well as grant-in-aid based ori enrollment. Instructors may be on various payrolls such as
Public Service Commission (PSC), Teachers Service Commission (TSC), or direct
employment by the training institution.
21.   Table C illustrates the scope for cost sharing and cost recovery at various levels of
training, especially at the ITCs and associated trade testing.



81                      ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 13
Table C:
Self-financing Potential of Training Institutions and Programs (1991/92)
Gross Expenditure         A-in-A       Net Expenditure
KL                 KL                  KL
ITC Nairobi        380,288             186,900             193,388
ITC Kisumu         317,632             159,000             158,632
ITC Mombasa        349,070             125,750             223,320
Kenya Textile T.I.   317,150            90,400             226,750
Trade Testing       85,350             186,000            (100,650)
Jua Kali Programs  1,306,712         1,198,565          108,147
Total    2,756,202            1,946,615           809,587
Source: Kenya Economic Surveys (1991/1992.
22.   Most YPs are in a weak financial position due to insufficient funding. Cuts in
Government budgets in recent years and inefficiencies in the management of the institutions,
including poor collection of fees, have resulted in inadequate facilities and training materials,
and the deterioration of the quality and amount of training. Similarly, the ITs have not been
able to retain the previous level of support, which they apparently enjoyed und2r the
Harambee system. Failed income generating productions have also weakened the financial
base of the ITs, many of which are bankrupt and have large debts. Their poor financial
situation has led to ever increasing tuition fees, almost non-existent capital investments and
declining quality of training. In addition, the institutions suffer from inefficiencies, including
a high number of non-teaching staff. Many of these institutions can neither afford nor
maintain the technology and machinery required to update programs, especially since the
introduction of the more comprehensive curriculum under the 844 system.
23.   The education share in total central Government expenditure is estimated at 14.7%
(1991/92) and 12.8% (1992/93). The training (VET) share in total central Government
expenditure represents only about 2% of the education budget in 1992 and 2.4% in 1993
respectively. Of this share, the National Polytechnics and Institutes of Technology (IT)
receive most in contrast to the Youth Polytechnics, which are more likely to produce informal
sector operators. As a whole, the education sector has the largest share of Governnent
expenditure in social services, accounting for 76.7 percent and 59.1 percent of the recurrent
and development expenditures, respectively for 1992/93. Table D shows central Government
expenditures on formal education and training.



82                      ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 13
Table D:
Central Government Education & Training Expenditures Estinates (K Pounds/million)
1991/92*                  1992/93**
Recurrent Expenditure
Formal Education                 590.50 (98.0%)             629.82(98.2%)
Vocational/Technical Training     12.21 (2.0%)               11.53 (1.8%)
Technic d Education             7.22 (1.2%)                7.38 (1.2%)
Polytechnics                    4.99 (0.8%)                4.15 (0.7%)
Total                            602.71 (100%)              641.35 (100%)
Development Expenditure
FornW Education                   59.79 (98.2%)              96.05 (94.1%)
Vocational/Technical Training      1.07 (1.8%)               6.04 ( 5.9%)
Technical Education             0.81 ( 1.4%)               4.69 (4.6%)
Polytechnics                    0.26 (0.4%)                1.35 (1.3%)
Total                             60.86 ( 100%)             102.09(100%)
Total Expenditure (Rec. + Dev.l
Fornal Education                 650.29 (98.0%)             725.87(97.6%)
Vocational/rechnical Training     13.28 (2.0%)               17.57 (2.4%)
Technical Education             8.03 (1.2%)                12.07 ( 1.6%)
Polytechnics                    5.25 (0.8%)                5.50 ( 0.8%)
Total                            663.57 (100%)              743.44 (100%)
Source: Kenya Economic Surveys 1991/92 & 1993. * Provisional ** Estimates
Per Student Costs of Training and Sources of inance/Cost Recovery
24.   Table 2 (page 11) shows estimated per student cost in technical training institutes and
the estimated Government cost as percentage of total costs. While the NPs are highly
subsidized, the ITCs receive no subsidy for student fees. Most trainees in the ITCs are
sponsored by their employers and do not pay fees. The Government is responsible for the
physical facilities of the ITCs, while the Industrial Levy Fund pays for the running costs.
25.   Table 3 (page 12) shows projected per student actual annual costs for technical
training and cost recovery. At present, training and boarding fees are under review, although
the political climate makes the proposed increases in fees socially sensitive. The proposed
increases are listed under combined Government and Private Cost per Student, while the
actual fees collected in the past are listed under Cost Recovery. Table 4 (page 13) indicates
the fees structure in technical training institutes.



83                            ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 13
The Indusrial Trainng Levy Fund
26.    The Industrial Training Levy 4/ is a private source of financing craft and technical
training through the Industrial Training Act, established in 1971. The Act makes provision
for the regulation of the training of persons engaged in industry with a view to improve the
quality and efficiency of manpower engaged in industry and to ensure an adequate supply of
properly trained manpower at all levels in industry.
27.    All employers are required by law to register with the DIT and to pay an industrial
training levy in accordance with their Industrial Training Levy order classifications set out in
the Act. The DIT collects levy payments from employers countrywide. The levy is not a
form of taxation. The levy scheme was set up according to the industries and technological
and skill demand in each of them. There are 11 levy orders established to date. Each
industry determines the basis on which it should be levied depending on the nature of the
business. The building and construction industry is lev. A  : 0.25%  of contract value in
excess of Ksh 50,000. Eight industries are charged on per capita basis per employee (i.e.,
Ksh 50 per employee per half year in the commercial and printing industries).
28.    The Industrial Training Act covers the following areas which govern all forms of
industrial training: (1) the DIT; (2) the National Industrial Training Council (a tripartite
body consisting of a Chairman, six representatives of employers (FKE), six representatives of
employees (COTU), and not less than six persons representing other interests); (3) training
committees; (4) training levy orders; (5) training schemes; and (6) trade tests. The Director
of industrial training is the custodian of the Act and secretary to the Council. The DIT is the
secretariat to the National Industrial Training Council.
29.    In 1991 receipts amounted to KSH 61,329,288.20. During that time payments were
made in the amount of Ksh 50,600,460.40. There was a balance of Ksh 154,120,120.35.
The funds are utilized for training in the form of reimbursements to employers for cost of
training and wages paid to employees while in traming. The Director (DI'), acting on advice
of the Council, may make payments out of the Fund for various training purposes, including
payment for courses and travel allowances, grants or loans and reimbursement of an
employer. However, the Levy system is ineffective, due in part to its administration.
Records have been kept manually, the collection and disbursement of funds is cumbersome
and slow. The cost-effectiveness of any training undertaken is not known, nor is its impact on
worker productivity. It is unclear to what extent the levy fund allocations respond to the
industry's requirements and to what extent they are too low or too high.
4/     lTere also exists die Hotel and Caterinug Taining Levy established under the Hotels and Restaurants Act (1971). Tle
Levy is on the customers and not on the hoteliers. The catering industy uses the fiads for training their personnel in the UTALI
College. The Colege offers courses in hotel management (4 years) to local and foreign students. Two-year courses exist in food
production. Enrollment totals about 300 to 400 students. The training under this levy is mainly confined to training manpower
for the high class hotels, it does not cater to middle class hotels and restaurant busiesses. Other caterug training instions are
found, but they are not covered under the levy.



84                                      ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 13
30.     Training schemes which are currently reimbursable fall into the following categories:
(1) management (overseas and local), (2) technician courses, (3) craft courses, (4) indentured
learners S/, and (5) skill improvement courses. Training schemes are drawn up by the
training committees according to training and skills needed in the industry, i.e., local
management and supervisory courses, technician and craft courses in various trades, in-plant
indenured learner, and skldl improvement courses. Most courses related to these schemes are
conducted at various public and private institutions. Management courses are conducted
locally by all national universities and colleges (i.e., KIBT), overseas, and by approved
private management institutions or consultancies.
5/1      An indentred learer is defined as a person bound by a written coract to serve an employer for a determined
period of time (6 monrths to 5 years) for the purpose of leaning a trade or occupation in which he or she is so employed, during
which Ihe employer wfll pay the indetmred learner a wage. Any person who has completed a Certificate of Primary Education
and is 15 years of age or more may apply to become an indentured learner. An employer nmay apply for permission (from the
DMl) to employ several indentured leamners.



1. Enrollment and Capacity In Technical Training Institutions
(number of institutes In 1992)
____  __  - ______  ___  -_-   ________      _-_-_-     _   _____-  ______- __-_- ______- ____- ____-_-_   -__ -_ -_  _ -_ -_ -_   _- ____
Enrollment                           Capacity               Use(%)
1980          1989          1992                  1992                  1992
Youth Polytechnics                                         19,500        40,000        40,000                 ---                  ---
(603)
National Youth Services'                                    9,000         9,000
(16)
Christlan Industrial Training Centers,                                    1,000
Technical Training Institutes                               8,600         8,000          8,261               11,609                  71.20/b
(19)
Institues of Technology*                                      260         4.600         5,281                 7,771                 68.00
(17)
Industrial Training Centers                                 1,200         2,000           319                   716                 44.60/
(4)
National Polytechnics                                                     5,700         9.038                 0,239                 88.3h
(3)                                                                       (7,716)
Kenya Technial Teachers College                                                           653                   520                125.6%
(1)
 __   __      ____  _  ______      ____    _______     ____  ___   ___                                                           --------
* NYS and CITC are not financially supported by MRTT&T.
They used to be called Harambee Institute of Technology.
The Govt. provides instructors as well as a grant-in-aid based on student nimbers.
Capital equipment Is mainly provlded by foreign donors and high proportion of recurrent costs
are financed by Harambee contributions.
Sources: MRTT&T, official estimate for 1992.
Economic Survey for 1989.
Ndegwa Report for 1980.
o pe



2. Per Student Costs (Unit Costs) of Technical Training and Sources of Finance. 1T89
(comparison with formal education)
Combined Govt.             Govt. Cost
and Private Cost           as Percentage
per student (Ksh.)         of Total
Technical Training
Youth Polytechnics                                4,300                      42
Technical Training Institutes                     8.000                      S7
Institues of Technology                          14.000                      20
Industrial Training Centers
National Polytechnics                            14,000                      85
Formal Education
________________
Primary                                           2,100                      44
Secondary                                         7,500                      27
Primary Teacher Training                         13,000                      84
Diploma Teacher Training                         38,700                      96                                                                00
Universities                                     72.500                      62
Source: Ndegwa report
2,.'
e.



3. Projected Per Student Actual Annual Costs (Unit Costs) of Technical Training and Cost Recovery, 1992
Combined Government and Private Cost                    Cost Recovery                        Share of
per student (Ksh)                                   -------- -------- --------            Student Fees
----------- ----------- -----------                     Training Boarding     Total         in Total Actual
Training    Boarding  Recurrent*     Total                fees     tees                    Costs (%)
Youth Polytechnics                                                          2,644    4,300                                                    61.5%
Technical Training Institutes                       6,000       3,600       11,836   21,436              1,800    3,425    5,225              24.4%h
Institues of Technology                             6,600       5,400      11,725   23,725                                10,000              42.1%
Industrial Training Centers
National Polytechnics
diploma In non-technical courses                  8,800       18.900      11,626   39,326              2,520   12,150   14.670               37.3%
diploma In technical courses                     12,570       18,900      11,626   43,096              2,520   12.150   14,670               34.006
higher diploma In non-technical courses          11,610       18.900      11,626   42,136              3,600   12,150   15,750               37.4%
higher diploma In technical courses              16,800       18.900      11,626   47,326              3,600   12,150   15.750               33.3%
Average for National Polytechnics                12,445       18.900      11,626   42,971              3,060   12,150   15.210               35.4%
1992-April 1993
Recurrent means the government expenditure for teachers' salaries and other recurrent costs.
1989 figure.
* The 1989 figure for total costs is used and the cost sharing rate should be much lower than this.
* It is assumed that the government recurrent expenditure Is evenly distributed among the four programs.
Source: MRTT&T, official estimate.
Comments:
a. Inflation Is not reflected in these figures and thus actual costs must be much higher now.
As a result, the rate of cost recovery must be lower than the figures in the table.
b. Boarding fees are full cost recovery and accordingly, the boarding fees will change subject to
the real costs occasionally within the fiscal year, reflecting the Inflation.
c. Training institutes are engaged in income generating activies to fill the gap between total costs and revenues.
Institutes of Technology are partficularly active In these actMties due to Its origin based on Harambee movement.
It should be noted that many public training Institutions are seriously indebted.



4. Fees Structure In Technical Training Institutes, 1993 *
Fees, 1992                                   Fees, 1993
Training Boarding         Total           Training Boarding    Total
fees        fees                          fees     fees
Youth Polytechnics                                                                           4.000    4,000
Technical Training Institutes                     1.800       3,425       5,225                                7,524
Institues of Technology                                                  10.000                               14,400
Industrial Training Centers
National Polytechnics
diploma in non-technical courses                 2,520      12,150      14,670             6,257   18,900   25.157
diploma In technical courses                     2,520      12,150      14.670             6,760   18,900   25.660
higher diploma in non-technical courses          3,600      12.150      15,750             8,112   18.900   27,012
higher diploma In technical courses              3,600      12.150      15,750             8.585   18.900   27,485
since 1993.
Sourco: MRTT&T, official estimate.
00
00
xI
2)X



89
ANNEX 7
P^ge 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY P'0JECT
THE MINISTRY OF RESEARCH, TECHNICAL TRAINING
AND TECHNOLOGY (MRTT&T)
Background
1.    The Ministry of Technical Training and Applied Technology (MTTAT) was established in March
1988, and for the first time, technical and vocational training are the primary responsibility of a single
ministry (as contained in the Presidential Circular No. 1 of 1988). It is also charged with the
development of programs benefitting the informal sector. The creation of the MTTAT and the explicit
inclusion of the Jua Kali or productive informal sector in its portfolio must be recognized as a major step
in increasing the relevance of fonnal training. However, to translate this policy into practice has
inevitably been difficult because of insufficient technical capacity. It is clear that MTTAT had an
inherited responsibility for a wide range of training institutions whose existing purposes and practices
cannot be transformed or rationalized overnight.
2.    In early 1993, the MTTAT was merged with the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology
and was reorganized under the name of Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
(MRTT&T) with an expanded mandate. A draft schedule of duties was provided by the MRTT&T and
is sunmarized below:
3.    Overall fimctions:
National research development policy
National Council of Science and Technology
Liaison with research institutes and other research bodies
Application and transfer of appropriate technology
Research inventory and dissemination
Control of the use of research information
Patents policy
Technic.1 training policy
Technical education
Institutes of Technology
National Polytechnics



90
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Youth Polytechnics
National Industrial Training Council
Technical Vocational Training
Jua Kali Development Programs
Directorate of Industrial Training
4.    Before the creation of MITAT, YPs were under the charge of the Ministry of Culture and Social
Services. The ITs and NPs came under the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology as well as
the TTIs, which used to be technical high schools. The DIT and technical industrial trdining were the
responsibility of the Ministry of Labor.
MRTT&T Directorates
1)    Technical and Vocational Education/Training (DTT)
2)    Industrial Training - Formal Apprenticeship (Dr)T
3)    Applied Technology - Jha Kali Development Programs (DAT)
4)    Research, Science and Technology Development (DRD)
5)    Kenya Industrial Property Office (KIPO)
6)    National Council for Science and Technology (NCST)
5.    There are six Research Institutes, including KIRDI, with approximately 10,000 employees under
the supervision of the DRD. They are not on the payroll of the MRTT&T, although the budget passes
through MRTT&T.
6.    The total number of employees at the MRTT&T and its provincial services is estimated at 1,202
as of October 1993. This figure is below the approved number of staff by the DMP (about 380 persons).
For instance:
Approved Staff        Actual Staff
(under MRTT&T Payroll)
DIT          647                        518
DAT           83                        nil
DTT          444                        66
It should be noted that the current staff at DAT (listed under Professional Services, including
DTT, total number of persons 29) is not on the MRTT&T payroll but paid by the Teachers Services
Commission.
7.    DTr. Under MRTT&T, the DTT is responsible for developing technical and vocational training
policies and for adminsterng the Youth Polytechnics for 2 years' artisan training (about 330), the
Technical Training Institutes (18), and the Institutes of Technology (17) for craftsman level training.



91
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
8.    DIT. The DIT is responsible for the operation of the ITCs. It also administers the collection
and allocation of the Industrial Training Levy through the tripartite National Industrial Training Council
(NITC). The levy fund was established in 1971 to ensure emjloyer participation in finanicing training
of industrial manpower (see Annex 5). So far it has been used to support the training of employees of
the levy contributors (i.e., workers or trainees already in industry such as apprentice-, technician-,
indentured learners) as well as employees of non-contributors (i.e., Jua Kali trainees).
9.    The DIT is semi-autonomous and tensions arise from time to time between the DIT, which
operates government facilities and administers the semi-private Industrial Training Fund (parastatal
organizatiors contribute to the Fund), and the other directorates of MRTT&T. A better organization of
MRTT&T and especially an effective management system of the Industrial Training Fund are needed to
strengthen the system's efficiency, effectiveness and access. This would include an effective supervision
and accounting syefem and regular auditing of the accounts, as weil as regular evaluation of the quality
of training programs funded and their impact on labor productivity.
10.   DAT. The DAT is responsible for the formulation and implementation of policies relating to Jua
Kali enterprises in the informal sector. The DAT formulates and administers Jua Kali Development
Programs designed to assist the Jua Kali artisans (funded in part by donors, i.e., the Jua Kali
Demonstration Plant Project (UNDP/UNIDO)). DAT monitors the ativities of the Jua Kali associaions
including registration of Jua Kali artisans.
11.   The DAT has a Training and Gender Unit responsible for informal sector training development
as well as for establishing a sensitization program aimed at bringing young women into technical fields
of study and productive work.
12.   Actual MRTr&T Staff for Septembr 1993:
Headquarters              502
NCST                       49
DIT Curriculum             43
DfT Headquarters           84
NITC                       116
Trade Test                 19
NITC Kisumu                92
NITC Mombasa               91
KTTI                       74
Youth Development          39
CRT Karen                  51
Professional Services HQRS   29
Provincial Services        10
District Services           3
Total                   1,202



92                       ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF KEYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PILOT INCUBATOR (INFRASTRUCTURE) PROGRAM
A. Rationale
1.    In Kenya, the Government has not been successful in providing infrastructure required for
the informal sector development because of lack of consultation with end users, ownershi,
problems and other disincentives. Although many private landlords are able to provide sites and
services, this is too expensive for Jua Kalis to afford and as a result, squatting abounds. The
objective of this component is to make the appropriate work places affordable to viable Jua Kali
businesses. To this end, the project would: a) identify and secure land for the Jua Kali sector; b)
develop the infrastructure on selected sites; and c) institute a management system for allocating
and managing the land and facilities.
2.    Security of land tenure and access to appropriate infrastructure -- access roads, water and
drainage, and electricity in the sites - are crucial to the development of the Jua Kali sector.
Land tenure, as a collateral, makes credit accessible to entrepreneurs and gives incentive to invest
in capital, develop sites and advance technology. The lack of basic infrastructure is a barrier to
the improvement of technology, e.g. shifting from hand to power tools. Consumers are also
discouraged to purchase Jua Kali goods due to the difficulties in reaching the sites caused by the
abserce of access road and footpaths.
B. Security of Work Sites
3.    Plot Location. Size and Numbeis of Work Places: Acquiring land is a fundamental
requirement for building infrastructure. A number of sites have already been identified and
allocated by the local Commissioner of Lands (COL) to MRTT&T. The land will be contributed
by the Government without charge. The infrastructure program would be carried out, on a pilot
basis, on sites in Mombasa and Kisumu respectively. In two towns, a total of approximately 500
work places of different sizes would be developed: plot sizes varying from 6X6 meters, 6XI0,
1OX16 and upwards, depending on the activity to be carried out. An estimated 170 work places
would be created at Mombasa on two sites and 330 work places at Kisumu on two sites, to
accommodate a total of about 3000 workers by the end of the project.
4.    Ownership and Payments to be Levied: The infrastructure component will be a DiLot
mini-incubator exercise based on the principle of 'site and service', with the full participation of
entrepreneur operators. Two methods of ownership by Jua Kali operators are proposed: in
Mombasa some sites would be acquired by individual operators under a standard lease
arrangement (33, 66, and 99 years), arranged through the local Jua Kali Association - who
receives a Letter of Allotment from the Conmissioner of Lands (sample copies contained in the
implementation volume) initially - and where land rates and transfer fee are paid to the
Commissioner of Lands by the Association who later levy a charge on the operator when
individual title is handed over. A further charge to be levied is land tax payable to the
Commissioner of Lands each year by the title holder. Rates, transfer fee and land tax vary
according to location and area of land and are calculated on a standard formula (see para. 19). If
an operator wishes to sell his/her building and contents after two to three years occupancy, the
sale would go to a co-member of the Jua Kali Association and it is recommended that MRTT&T



93                            ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 11
notify the Commissioner of Lands that a caveat be included in each operators title ensuring that
the transfer of ownership will be to a bone fide/long term member of the Association. The
remaining sites at Mombasa and all sites at Kisumu will be leased (10 years, renewable) to
operators through the Jua Kali Association, and where MRTT&T receive the Letter of Allotment
to the land title from the Commissioner of Lands and where no costs for land rates and transfer
fee are involved. However, a charge for land tax is still levied on the Jua Kaii operator.
5.    Site Location Criteria: Each site will be located considering the following criteria: i) near
to an area of heavy human traffic; ii) near to or off a good trunk road and easily accessible; and,
iii) has direct access to essential services such as electricity, water, drainage, storm water disposal
and refuse collection facilities. Sites will be under the over all charge of a Jua Kali Association
who would be responsible for its future operation and maintenance, its transparent selection of
operators (with representatives of MRTT&T, the Local Authority, Jua Kali Association, etc.),
collection of rents/payments, maintenance and service charges from operators, training of artisans
and laborers in construction techniques, distribution of materials, overall supervision and day-to-
day management procedures (see attached selection survey rating sct.edule).
6.    Tenure Arrangement: In terms of the tenure arrangement, this project proposes a
combination of access; long-term lease at Kisumu, and ownership and long term lease at
Mombasa, based on the size of business. Jua Kalis about to graduate who can afford the cost of
leasing and ongoing maintenance cost and charges would be granted ownership, while others
would be under a leasehold arrangement. Common facilities such as public toilets, Jua Kali office
and materials store/exhibition space would be owned and managed by the Jua Kali Associations.
7.    OwnershiM: Unider the "ownership" approach, where the MRTT&T has the allotment, the
work places would be allocated to individual Jua Kalis on long leases at completion of the
infrastructure construction. They would be priced at market rates with repayments on a "tenant
purchase" basis. The common areas and facilities would be managed and maintained by the Jua
Kali Association and the related arrangement, e.g. fees and service charges, would be prepared.
Repayments would be collected by the Jua Kali Association. The security would be the title to
the work place.
8.    Leasing Arrangement: For micro Jua Kali businesses, the work places would be rented
under a leasehold arrangement. The lease period would be 10 years and would be renewable.
The type of business to be carried on the premises would be specified and would not be able to be
altered without the permission of management. Sub-letting would be only allowed if the
leaseholder also works on the premises. This would enable larger work places to be shared.
Absentee landlords would be prohibited.
C. Infrastructure Provision
9.    Infrastructure. Buildings and Services to be Provided: This component is similar to a site-
and-service program. Each of the work places would have individual water, sewerage, and
electrical connection. In addition, the sites would be provided with access roads, public toilets,
and drainage. These facilities will be designed in close consultation with the users. Each site
would also have an office for the Jua Kali Associations use and a store for building material
distribution during the construction of the individual operators sheds over the first three years of
the project. After which time, this store would be converted to a permanent exhibition center
where improved technology could be taught to the immediate and surrounding Jua Kali operators.



94                              ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 11
Given that Jua Kalis are skilled artisans, a large part of the construction of the operator sheds will
be done by manual labor of the members (self-help) as well as by paid full-time workers.
Technical assistance and supervision on the construction would be provided by contracted
consultant services. The local authorities would  't be involved in the project except for the
provision of some services during and after the construction, such as garbage collection. Building
materials for operator sheds would be provided through the Credit and distributed to the operators
by the Jua Kali Association. Operators would essentially be responsible for constructing their
own structures on a force account basis, however, some controls would be exercised to ensure
that appropriate construction techniques and materials are used, training in construction methods
provided and si -ervision given. Typical stapdard layouts for the small scale business operator
would be prepa.ed prior to effectiveness. These would consider different layouts and structures
for different operations which could include animal food production, furniture making, vehicle
repair, maize flour production, dry cleaning, bread making, leather goods, knit wear, electrical
accessories, window casement manufacturing, castor oil production, tailoring, etc. To assist this
program, grants would be provided with Jua Kali Associations through MRTT&T. Special
attention is required by MRTT&T. DAT and the Jua Kali Associations to focus on and encoura2e
women to use the Jua Kali facilities, given their mobility and financial constraints. and the need to
balance their domestic and income onportunities. Data collection and monitoring on tender
access to sites, and to technology grants and trainip2 (in manufacturina rather than trade and
services), which are also to be involved witb the Jua Kali Association, will therefore be essential.
10.   Documentation to be Prepared and Tendering Procedures: Designs, documentation and
bidding documents for the basic infrastructure would be undertaken by a consortium of local
engineers/architects (selected under IDA procurement procedures) and include the following:
roads and paved areas, lighting and power supply, water reticulation, storm water disposal,
fencing, refuse disposal facilities, toilet/sanitary blocks, office for the Jua Kali Association and a
store for building materials, which after completion of the operator sheds, be converted to an
exhibition shed or technology center. The infrastructure would be tendered under LCB
procedures because of its small value and as it is unlikely these contracts would go to foreign
contractors due to their small size and the 7 1/2% preference to local contractors if ICB
procedures were used. The consultant would also design some sample operator sheds, in
consultation with Jua Kali operators and the Association, for the operators and small contractors
where operators are unable to construct their own facilities. Standard layout drawings would
consider different type layouts, based on the simplest construction techniques, for each possible
operation to be considered. In the case of operators who have already received title to land and
have built sheds and are operating a business and there is no infrastructure, operators need to be
advised that they will be required to pay additional charges for the infrastructure when this has
been completed.
11.   Construction of Sheds: Some building materials are to be supplied through the credit,
obtained under ICB procedures, and distributed to the sites by the consultant consortium group.
These would be purchased by the better established operators who would be charged at a nominal
rate over period of time. Operators will essentially be responsible for constructing their own
structures, on a force account basis, however, assistance in construction and some basic training
in building techniques will be given, free of charge, through the Jua Kali Association, a clerk of
works and with possible support from the local Ministry of Public Works. The consultant would
tender sheds to local contractors, on behalf of those operators, who are not established and are
unable to effect the construction themselves.



95                         ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 11
12.   Construction Costs: Construction costs are based on up-dated contract prices from the
GOK/GTZ projects at Voi, Karatina, Kisi, Nakuru and Meru and are applicable at July 1, 1993.
Prices on each of these five contracts have escalated by approximately 80% since start-on-site date
April, 1992, and where all contracts will be complete by August, 1993. The anticipated final cost
of these five projects is infrastructure Kshs. 81 million and professional fees Kshs. 6 million.
Total cost Kshs. 87 million (US$1.3 million at Kshs. 65 per US$ exchange rate). Detailed costs
are as follows:
GOK/GTZ Contracts:
Average cost per shed = Kshs. 98,837 (US$1,521.00)
This Project:
Cost per shed = Kshs. 148,000 (US$2,277.00)
Note: The final cost of infrastructure on the GOK/GTZ project considers increased prices
due to escalation and additional works since the April, 1992 start-on-site date to August, 1993
when all sites have been handed over to the Jua Kali Associations. Considering the past year and
current rates of inflation, it is envisaged that these prices will escalate further by approximately
50% to project start date July, 1994, project construction prices have therefore been adjusted
accordingly.
13.   Available Sites at Kisumu: The appraisal mission visited two sites at Kisumu which have
been proposed for improvement. These were:
(i) Kisumu Town: Area 3.5 hectares (8.5 acres). Operated by 2 Jua Kali Associations
who have amalgamated into the Kisumu Center Jua Kali Association which is run by a
management committee consisting of a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Vice Secretary,
Organizing Secretary, Vice Organizing Secretary and 8 Committee members. The Association,
which has yet to be registered, includes 400-500 operators with only 10 women members. Main
operations carried out on site include motor vehicle repairs, spray painting, welding and
fabricating, waste paper re-cycling, metal work and electrical repairs. Land title was originally
with Kenya Railways, however, this has been in abeyance since 1987 and it was advised that thi.
had not been renewed and title had therefore reverted back to Government. The Jua Kali
Association needs to urgently acquire a letter of allotment to ensure proper title is obtained. The
-ite contains two sheds (ea( X 5X20 meters) and an office which have been constructed by
MRTT&T. The site has no sanitary facilities, no water services and minimal electrical provision,
however, main drains, eiectrical services and water are readily available off site (an existing
75mm diameter and 150mm diameter water main pass the boundary on Nyuki Road and Johanna
Ouku Road respectively; a 225mm diameter concrete sewer pipe; and, a three phase power line
adjacent to the site boundary). The JKA currently pay KShs. 19,600 in service charges and
license fee to the Kisumu City Council and members are charged KShs.370 per year which covers
these charges and the operational costs of the Association. Suggested plot requirements for a new
development would be: 25% = 10in X 16m; 45% = 6m X 10m; and, 30% = 6m X 6 m.
(ii) Kibuye Location at Kisumu: Area 3.1 hectares (7.6 acres), however only 2.5 hectares
available for development. Operated by the Kibuye Jua Kali Association, which is registered, and
with a similar committee as for Kisumu. Kisumu City Council have agreed to give the land to the
JKA and a letter to this effect with site plans needs to be lodged with MRTT&T to assist in the
obtainng of a letter of allotment. The Association currently has a total membership of 643 and



96                                ANNEXS 8
Page 5 of  1I
includes 161 men and 120 women members. 900 trainees are also attached. Each member pays
KShs. 120 per year with a joining fee of KShs. 150. The Citv Council collect KShs. 120 from each
member per year. Main operations carried out on site are metal work, tinsmiths, tailoring,
carpentry, cabinet making, welding and fabricating, electrical repairs. retailing, traditional
medicines and vehicle maintenance. Primitive sanitary facilities exist on site, however, adequate
drainage, electric and water supplies aie not evident. Proper storm water drainage does not exist.
Suggested plot requirements for a new development would be: 40% = 6m X 10m and 60% =
6m X 6 m.
14.   Available Sites at Mombasa: The appraisal mission visited seven possible locations at
Mombasa and a site selection rating schedule prepared (see attachment). Further details are as
follows:
(i) Kaa Chonjo 1: Area 2.05 hectares (5.1 acres). Centrally located with 41 possible plots
of varying size. Some permanent structures evident on site including one house. '1ll essential
services available to site, however, all weather roads and storm water disposal not evident.
Ground flooding evident at bottom end of site. Letter of allotment exists from the Department of
Lands. Infrastructure not recommended for IDA funding.
(ii) Kaa Chonjo 2: Area 0.96 hectares (2.4 acres). Centrally located with 48 possible plots
of varying size. No structures exist on site, however, each site has been allocated to the larger
Jua Kali operators. Essential services are available to the site but the whole site suffers from
serious flooding problems and no suitable access roads are evident. Letter of allotment exists
from the Department of Lands. Infrastructure not recommended for IDA funding.
(iii) Miritini: Area 1.16 hectares (2.9 acres). Located four miles from Town center near
to Match Factory with 36 plots of varying size which have yet to be allocated. Site is clear with
no structures evident and essential services are available off site. Letter of allotment exists from
Department of Lands. Access to site from main road adequate. Infrastructure could be funded by
IDA.
(iv) Chaani Open Market: Area 0.42 hectare (1 acre). Site located in the World Bank
financed Chaani site and service project and which was originally scheduled for one of two open
air markets in a heavily populated domestic area. The site, which could contain 67 sub-plots, has
remained unused for the past five years. The site has a perimeter wall and contains an ablution
block and a small office. Essential services exist and access is by tarmac road. The reasons for
this site remaining unused over the past five years will need to be assessed carefully and a firm
list of possible Jua Kali operators wishing to trade here would need to be established before IDA
could consider funding the infrastructure.
(v) Likoni: Area 2.72 hectares (6.7 acres). Site located off main south road from
Mombasa (2-3 miles) going towards Diane Beach. The site is well located in a growing
population area and currently contains a few minor structures within its overall area. The site
could contain 115 sub-plots of varying sizes and is readily accessible from the main tarmac road
adjoining it. Essential services are also available outside the site boundaries. A letter of
allotment exists from the Department of Lands. Infrastructure could be funded by IDA.



97                            ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 11
(vi) Mtonawe: Area 1.472 hectares (3.6 acres). Site located off main tarmac road to
Navel Base, south of Mombasa and near to Likoni site, approximately two to three miles from
Mombasa. Site has still to be surveyed, however, a letter of allotment exists from the Department
of Planning. The site is clear with no existing structures apparent and essential services were
reported as available. Infrastructure could be funded by IDA.
D. Financial Management
15.   Cost Recoverv: Rents to be Charged: The rents would be charged primarily on the basis
of the market rates for similar facilities in each town. There will not be a uniform national rate.
The rents for the work places under this project are likely to be higher than market rates since
additional facilities are provided as compared to the sites where they operate at present. This is
sensible considering many Jua Kali businesses are already paying rents at market rates. The rents
would be determined reflecting the costs of construction and land value, the provision of services
(electric, water, sanitation and refuse collection), and on-going maintenance costs. Rents would
be reviewed annually and indexed to a measure of inflation. In order to be able to attract
fiancing agencies and investors to the informal sector infiastructure investment, it will be
ensured that rents should yield an economic rate of return of 15 percent over 15 years (although
this may not attract private investors at this stage, it will provide an incentive for the investment
at a later stage). The Jua Kali Association would be entitled to terminate the lease if the tenants
fail to pay rents more than three months and/or other charges such as service charges, license
fees, statutory charges to the local authorities and the Ministry of Commerce.
16.   Cost Recovery: Use of Funds and Collateral for Loans: Payments and charges collected
would consider total cost recovery. Two project accounts would be kept where all receipts would
be split on a 15% and 85% basis. The 15% account covering costs of the maintenance of
infrastructure and services reticulation, whilst the second account would support expansion to
overall site activities, additional operating staff salaries, land acquisition for future expansion and
provision of credit facilities to those operators -equiring additional equipment and tools (at easy
terms and standard interest rates). Where operators hold the individual title to plots, it will be
possible for them to use this title as ^ollateral for borrowing funds from commercial houses.
Other operators, who lease land from the Jua Kali Association over ten years, will aot have this
resource, and will need to arrange a chattel mortgage with banks through their ownership of
equipment and tools which would be put up as collateral against a loan.
17.   Maintenance/Management and Development Accounts: The rents collected would be
deposited in two separate accounts. About 15 percent of the total monthly revenue would be
deposited in an operational account (Jua Kali Operational Fund) for maintenance and
management. This amount should be adjusted according to ages of the work places and local
conditions so that it may be sufficient to cover management, and proper maintenance and repairs.
The balance would be deposited in a development account (Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund). This
surplus capital in the Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund would be invested in short term and medium
term securities and would upon request be ploughed back into further development of the original
site, additional Jua Kali sites, or provision of credit to operators who require tools and equipment
and where loans would be provided at easy terms and standard interest rates. The Jua Kali
Infrastructure Fund would be managed by the Project Steering Committee and regularly inspected
by Finance and Accounts Department (FAD), MRfT&T. The two accounts, Jua Kali Operational
Fund and Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund would be audited annually by independent auditors.



98                          ANNEX S
Page 7 of 11
18.   Jua Kali Committee: The Jua Kali Committee (JKC), composed of representatives of
local Jua Kali Associations, and Federation of Jua Kali Associations, the private sector, IDA,
MRTT&T, Local Authorities, and other GOK line ministries. Inclusion of the local auth1ority
representatives would help identify the Jua Kali sites for future development. The JKC would be
chaired by the MRTT&T Permanent Secretary. The principal responsibilities of the JKC would
be to manage the Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund and to determine the list of the eligible businesses
for each Jua Kali si.e under the project.
19.   Letter of Allotment/Title Charges: To obtain a letter of allotment from the Commissioner
of Lands (COL) various charges are levied which include a stand premium (GOK premium rate of
current land value) which is a one-tim.- payment to the COL when land has been offered to a non-
government group or an individual. This charge has to be settled within 30 days after receirt of
the letter of allotment. The example below for Kaa Chonjo TI on Mombasa Island outlines other
charges which are levied. The stand premium in this case was much lower than the market rate:
e.g. Kshs. 68,000 versus a market value of Kshs. 21.0 million. Land rents are also levied by the
COL and are required to be settled yearly from the date of issuance of the letter of allotment.
These rents vary to location and are much higher in Mombasa than Kisumu. Land rates are also
required by the local government authority annmally after the letter of allotment is issued.
Repayment of the cost of infrastructure varies according to its actual cost and is split between
operator sites over period of time. Maintenance and lua Kali management charges are established
at 1-2% of the cost of infrastructure. (see attachment to this Annex)
Example of Charges Levied on a Typical Letter of Allotment
Kaa Chonjo II: Mombasa Island
Rshs.
Stand premium                                 68,000.00
Rent (per year - variable)                     13,600.00
Conveyancing fees                               300.00
Registration fees                                100.00
Rates, proportion of (provisional)
Stamp duty                                     4,360.00
Survey fees                                    2,230.00
Roads and road drains                         200,000.00
Sewers
Total                                   288,590.00
E. Provgram Management
20.   Tmplementation and Mana;etent: MRTT&T/DAT/ATU would have the overall
responsibility for project implementation. This unit would be reinforced with additional staff,
supported through the credit and for the life of the project only, and include a
Coordinator/Economist, Financial Officer, Proumentfrtucture Specialist, Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, Training/Planning Specialist, Technology/Planning Specialist and a Staff
Development Specialist. DAT/ATU would be responsible for the contracting out and appointment
of consultant services to groups and individuals to address the Training Fund, Infrastrucure
Development, Technology Development, Monitoring and Evaluation and Staff Development.
Each contract/package would be bid under IDA procedures, however, where a foreign firm was
judged to be the lowest responsive bid, tbat firm would be expected to participate with a local



99                             ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 11
consultant partner, to build local consultant capacity. DAT/ATU would also act as MRTT&T's
direct link with the Jua Kali Federation, again to receive some support through the Credit, and the
Jua Kali Associations throughout lx>enya.
21.   Jua Kali Association: Committee and Additional Staffing: Jua Kali Associations are
controlled by a democratically elected committee which includes a Chairman and Vice Chairman;
Treasurer and Vice Treasurer; Secretary and Vice Secretary; Organization Secretary and 6-10
other committee members. Associations at the project sites in Mombasa and Kisumu would be
reinforced with additional staff who would be responsible for the distribution of building
materials, training in building techniques, constructien controls and advice generally. (See
Annex 4 for further detailed description of Jua Kali Federation and Associatior.s).
22.   Jua Kali Association: Function: Individual programs will be managed by the Jua Kali
Association organized at each site. This method will provide accountability of management and a
sense of ownership among the beneficaries through their active participation in the design,
elaboration, aid implementation of the project. The finctions of the Jua Kali Associations would
include: (a) collection of rents; (b) managing a Jua Kali Operational Account; (c) management and
maintenance of infrastructure; (d) maintining records of all lease holders; (e) maintaining
observance of lease conditions; (f) transfer of plots; and, (g) provision of construction training
and materials to operators, and supervision of individual constructions. The Association should
-xercise internal control to prevent speculation and illegal sale, subletting, or transfer of the work
places. Through its by-laws, the Association can guarantee that the withdrawing member will sell
or return the work places to the Jua Kalis only. The Jua Kali Association would be subject to
public scrutiny and audit, and report to MRTT&T. MRTT&T would assume the role to facilitate
and supervise the overall infastructure program.
23.   Support to the Jua Kali Association: Since the Jua KLli Associations at present do not
have all the skills required for the complex process of the infrastructure project, external support
is required. The Federation of Jua Kali Associations should assume a role as support
organizations which provide skills and resources with a policy framework with respect to land,
finance, and so forth. To strengthen the capacity of Jua Kali Associations and the Federation,
technical assistance through the appointment of a consortium of management and
architect/engineering consultant firm will be provided in the start-up phase.
24.   Training for the Jua Kali Association: The management of the Association is critical to
reaching the goals of the project. Good management applies equally to the Association and the
supporting organizations such as the MRTT&T. The project will provide management training
for representatives of the Jua Kali Associations and the Federation of the Jua Kali Associations.
In addition, individual members' participation is important in the management of the Association.
To enable the membership to participate, there needs to be a suitable structure but this should be
underpinned by the development of members' skills through trai-ung and education. The content
of training should cover many aspects of the operations of the Association with more general
courses for the ordinary membership and more intensive training for the elected leadership.
Human resources development should be built into the structure of the Association on a
continuing basis.
25. MIonitoring and Evaluation of Sites: The project includes funds for monitoring and
evaluating of all sites included in the Credit as well as other sites to be funded by other donors
which could be implemented differently from this Credit. The most appropriate method of



100                            ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 11
implementation and management for the establishment of a small scale enterprise can then be
determined for the future.
F. Criteria for Selecding Allottee's of Work Places
26.   Selection Criteria for Allottee's: The selection procedure to ensure proper and protected
ownership of title would be totally transparent where a selection conunittee (represented by
MRTT&T, the Local Authority, local Jua Kali Association, Jua Kali Federation and District
Development Committee) would short-list suitable operators based on the following criteria: i) be
a bona fide member of the local Jua Kali Association; ii) have a successful record in small
business operation; iii) has been in operation for at least two years; iv) is able to afford the
rent/charges to be levied; v) is in a trade/craft which has growth potential; vi) do not currently
own other commercial plots iD town; and vii) the plot to be acquired fits the type of business to
be operated from it. To avoid speculation by unscrupulous entrepreneurs purchasing one or more
plots and sub-letting to others at exorbitant rents, the selection committee will ensure that only the
most needy and deserving operators wil become participants to receive one plot only and that
reasonable and affordable rents/charges will be levied. However, if a recipient is unable to find
all the rent for his/her plot, he or she will report to the Jua Kali Association which would discuss
this and allow him/her to share the facility and rents with other artisans.
G. Allocation Procedures
27.   Applications; Applications would be invited for the work places under the project.
Extensive advertisements would be arranged through local publications, radio and respective Jua
Kali Associations. The information on the available facilities and services would be provided.
Accordingly, the application form would clearly state: (a) the number of work places available;
(b) the sizes of each work place, and available facilities and services ; (c) the tenure arrangement;
and (d) the monthly rent an other charges. Easy access to application forms would be ensured for
all Juan Kalis in the town. Each application form would charge a non-refundable KSh.50, which
would be deposited in the Juan Kali Operational Fund.
28.   The application form would request the following information:
-name and ID No. of the applicant
-type of Business
-number of years in operation in the town
-number of employees (i, any)
-estinated daily/weekly/monthly/ turnover
-rent paid at present
-details of trade licenses held with the local authority and the Ministry of Commerce
The detailed business plan should be attached to the application form. Juan Kali
Associations would help entrepreneurs prepare the business plans. Technical assistance will be
provided for Jua Kali Associations in the first stage.
29.   Ballotin,: it is anticipated that there will be more qualified applicants than work places
available. Therefore, the applicants would be balloted. The balloting should be carried out
following transparent and accountable procedures and be done publicly under the supervision of
the selection committee. It should be ensured that local politics would not disrupt the process.



101
ANNEX 8
Page lOof 11
The results would be posted in a public place and communicated to individual applicants. The
selected applicants would then be required to sign a contract within a period of 14 days from
notification of allotnent.



SITE SELECTION CRITERIA RATING SCHEDULE
MOMBASA
Rating:
w  = water                                                                                                                               1. Good
e =   ectrdt                                                                                                                             2.Satifactory
d  = draInage                                                                                                                            3. MArgina
sw - storm water                                                                                                                         4. Bad
WCA1iUI           mm                           1 YI>M     t         MAM       W Wls|.    MO       LA"      am  I    3AT1'      A|tE    ALW3T  |WTA"   mNoor._
I   - -   -.        I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACXS ACC  ACC   OWNEIUP   SWAM    lAW  ICATCUET       TO        SIATIS     Sa
I  f ill     I             H        OAJ3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~STAINS    IXFT        URAlWI                        I ni.
_____                             L~LJ2 =i_                                 ___ _a_ __  _n_ 'ND __  _c__n _____
KAA CIIOU t                236     2    1    2    3                 2         3        3         4         3        3         3          3       To  $K
EAA CHOUO  2               0.96    2    2    4    4                 2         4        4                   4        3                    I       T0J           a        a    I
mINflII                    3t.16   3     3    3     2               3         2         3        2         2        2         2          3       102J5.                 26
i                 I                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7.,1
MLOT ao, YATTA AVZ34UE    0.73       2              A 2    3         3        t         I                  2        4         3                               a         so
SECAI
CIIAMMARKNE                042    2    I    2    3                  3        3         I        2         I        2                                         I 2       67
UlKmht                     27n     2  _       2  _          _             _        . .             2       2   _                                  rOI.KAS 0 _  _
TGl4           U.72                2  t       1    3                3         1   _              2         2        3         3         =           ).KA      3         l3S
31.31010
SITE SELECTION CITERIA RATING SCHEDULE
KISUMU                                                                                     0
.rTO                         $11=           .saa      MAR      -AIA    I-MT         .t .h NM                  ,O    O     A       .C ,L m            ----,l "Do
________H'ACCM                                    AA   jCCE S7, 1T Stl tr tOAW                  A Im | o           S| AllS        ram      ___
|MOWN                      35 | I    I   I    I   L                           3                  2   |      | t                                    NO         |        330
-IYZ                  21           1      a                          .   I                                       -  *                      ,ItO                4 *I2
123131132  __ __   3   3   2   I  Ij  3   3                                                  1   __I~~



103                       ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 2
Attachment to Annex 8
A. TYPICAL BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS FOR A SITE OF 330 PLOTS
(80 plots = I0mxl6m: 150 plots = 6mxl0m: 100 plots - 6mx6m)
Description                     Quantity     Rate         K3bs
Site clearance                        3.5 Ha       18,000          63,000
Landscaping                           Lump         Sum.           375,000
Perimeter wire fence/cedar poles      890 m        300            270,000
Double steel gate                     3            60,000         180,000
Road Works
Site roads and drainage                                          3,580,000
Site concrete/hard standing                                      5,930,000
Site 3m wide PCC slab footpath                                   1,350,000
Offsite Roads
Unnamed road and drainage                                        4,725,000
Power SUDPIY
Street and footpath lightirng                                    1,280,000
Power supply to site                                              450,000
Internal distribution                                           15,670,000
Water SUDDlY
Water supply to individual plots                                 1,290,000
Sewerage
Sewerage system                                                  1,925,000
Oil/Grease trap                       3             30,000         90,000
Buildina Works
3 Ablution blocks (4n=x15m)           3            360,000       1,080,000
Office and store                                                 3,000,000
DeLig
Design fee for infrastructure                                    8,450,000
SUlB TOTAL (Basic Costs)                                  49,735,000
Convert to US$ at 65.0 (at July. 1993):
Cost of Infrastrctue for 330 Plots  US$770,000
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS FOR 500 PLOTS
US$770,000*2 =US$1,540,000
TOTAL                    US$1,540,000



104                          ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 2
B. TYPICAL STED CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Utilizing actual final conti act cost information provided from the GOK/GTZ projects at
Voi, Karatina, Kisii, Nakuru and Meru and assuming the average shed to be 6mx3m in size
excluding a working yard of similar area (total area 6m:x6m), a cost per shed at July, 1993 was
Kshs. 98,837 (US$1,521) or Kshs. 5491 (US$85) per square meter. Applying a 50% price
escalation to July, 1994, the approximate date of effectiveness, the cost per shed would increase
to Kshs. 148,000 (US$2,277) at a square meter cost of Kshs. 8,237 (US$ 127).
Different structure of sheds will be required depending on the occupation of Jua Kalis.
For example, spray painting or auto vehicle repairs would need only roof without fixed walls,
while tailoring would require more fixed structure for security. It is assumed that there is an
inverse relationship between the size of shed and the extent of its fixed structure: i.e., the larger
the shed is, the less structure is required. The cost per shed is thus expected to be the same for
all three sizes, Kshs. 148,000 (US$2,277). Total costs for 500 sheds in the project would add up
to Kshs. 74 million (USS1.2 million).
C. OPERATING COSTS PER ANNUM AT EACH SITE
Assumed as follows:
Kshs
Rent, rates, road charges, etc. to municipality         20,000
Water for communal facilities                           30,000
Electricity for communal facilities                     50,000
Maintenance/Operating costs                             50,000
TOTAL                                            150,000
D. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
The rents for sheds would be determined based on the principle of the financial
sustainability of this component of the project, while there would be no charge for the basic
infrastructure provided. Assurming the average operator will purchase a 6mx6m site and shed at a
total cost of Kshs. 148,000, the rents per shed would be Kshs. 25,310 per annum to ensure that
rents yield an economic rate of return of 15 percent over 15 years (see para. 15 in this Annex).
This means that the monthly rent per shed is Kshs. 2,110, or Kshs. 59 per mordi per square
meter of the site. While there is no precise data available for the rents Jua Kalis pay for a shed in
Mombasa or Kisumu, the information on the current rents in five towns collected for the GTZ
project provides a good reference. Given the size of town and its economic activities, Nakuru is
considered to be comparable to Kisumu and Mombasa. In Nakuru Jua Kali operators pay
monthly rents ranging from Kshs. 1,300 to Kshs. 7,000 for similar facilities with secure lockable
premises made of permanent materials, including drainage, and electricity. Considering the
location of the project sites, an anticipated rent of Kshs. 2,110 is thought to be reasonable.
About 15 percent of the rents collected would be deposited in a Jua Kali Operational Fund
for maintenance and management of the site, while the balance would be deposited in a Jua Kali
Infrastructure Fund (para. 17 in this Annex). Assuming a 70% (230 plots) occupancy out of the
330 plots on each site location, the JKA annual receipts from operators would be Kshs. 5.8
million for the rent of the sheds. This means that about Kshs. 870,000 per annum would be
allowed for the operating costs presented above, plus salaries of staff in the JKA, and the
remaining Kshs. 5 million would be invested through the Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund. Separate
fmancial statements would be required for the two funds and they would be subject to external
audit.



105
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
THE MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING FUND
I. Background
1.    Lack of managerial, technical, and entrepreneurial skills and modem technology are invariably
cited as major constraints to the competitiveness and growth of informal sector enterprises. However,
skill upgrading and on-the-job training is not readily available and access to appropriate technology is
limited. The public training system is not flexible enough to provide skill upgrading for Jua Kali
entrepreneurs and operators, although there are technical training institutes that could provide such
training if assisted in the development of courses. The same can be said about private training providers,
including enterprises.
2.    As a whole, the current training system is ineffective and financially unsustainable in that: (a)
training provisions are seldom matched to demand, (b) consumers have little or no choice in the type of
training they want, (cj there is no evidence that formal training leads to jobs or generates income, and
(d) private sector participation is low. There is a need for more relevant training such as employer-based
training which would also facilitate moving skill upgrading closer to productivity and employment.
3.    The Project Training Fund would become part of a national training strategy. It would develop
financing mechanisms (i.e., a Jua Kali training fund) as well as experience and lessons to be incorporated
in the modernization of the Industrial Training Levy scheme and thus enable project sustainability. This
process is likely to involve consolidation and privatization of training, facilitating a larger role for the
private sector and enterprises in skills training, especially regarding training facilities and cost sharing,
and improving institutional mechanisms linking the Government, industry and workers.
H. Objectives
4.    The Training Fund will help establish a financing system to accomplish the following three
objectives: (a) provide relevant and equitable skill upgrading programs to micro- and snall enterprises,
promoting equal access of women to the informal manufactring sector; (b) facilitate more effective
utilization of existing services and programs offered by public and private training institutions, and (c)
develop enterprise-based training and thereby enhance cost-sharing for the different training and
technology courses, in order to make the system more relevant and financially sustainable.
5.    The Training Fund will serve as a mechanism for channeling public resources on a competitive
basis to sub-projects at: (a) link both technical and managerial skill upgrading and access to information
and new/appropriate technology, and (b) encourage enterprise-based skll upgrading. By matching
informal bector clients with specialized training institutions, the Fund can provide an incentive for
developing private and public technical and managerial skldls training and technological support services,
including enterprise-based slkll upgrading.
6.    By establishing two related approaches to funding training through a voucher and contact
scheme, the Fund addresses specific financial and quality issues related to reorienting the training system



106
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 12
to a demand-driven system. The voucher program would enable Jua Kalis to purchase the training they
want from approved training providers. The contract scheme would enable public and private institutions,
including enterprises, to provide training to informal sector clients on a competitive basis. A guide to
drft Government decision establishing the Project Trining Fund is attached to this Annex.
III. Fund Management
7.    While the Fund would be governed by a Project Steering Committee, the main agency to
administer the Fund and its programs will be the Training and Gender Unit (TGU) at MRTT&T/DAT
in conjunction with the Jua Kali Federation and local Associations. The TGU's principal responsibility
will be to make decisions regarding sub-project funding up to US$10,000. The sub-projects will be
executed by public or private institutions as well as enterprises which must compete for Fund resources
under pre-defined qualification and selection criteria outlined below. The project will provide technical
assistance to establish the Project Training Fund based on the general principles set forth in this Annex.
In particular allocation/procurement criteria would be clearly defined, including procedures for recovering
ineligible expenses, so as to allow for reallocation of funds among components from time to time
depending on actual performance and actual verifiable expenses.
8.    The DAT/TGU will report to the Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprising representatives
of MRTT&T and other GOK line ministries, along with Jua Kali Federation/Association and IDA
representatives. The PSC will be chaired by the MRTT&T Permanent Secretary. The PSC will serve
as a convening body for the parties involved in the Project, develop skill training policies, and stipulate
criteria for program promotion. The PSC will set annual budgets and review project proposals in excess
of US$10,000.
9.    The DAT/TGU will be responsible for the day-to-day administration of Project Fund activities.
This will involve reviewing and processing sub-project proposals on awarding funds (contracts, vouchers
and technology study visits) in consultation with the PSC.  The DAT/TGU  and Jua Kali
Federation/Associations which represent Jua Kali operators' interests and act as primary vehicles for
consultation and information exchange, will be responsible for organizing and reaching informal sector
entrepreneurs and artisans.
IV. Program
A. The Voucher Progam
a. Desciption
10.   Under the Project, a competitive voucher program aims to distribute up to 30,000 vouchers,
on average 6,000 per year, after the program has been gradually phased in to allow for learning
opportunities. The program has the following targets: a total of 10,000 vouchers at a unit cost of US$150
for management training and 20,000 vouchers for technical skill upgrading at a unit cost of US$200,
including trade testing II or I. A typical skill upgrading course would last about 2 to 6 weeks (including
enterprise-based, evening, onsite and residential courses). Vouchers could be used for public and private
sector instituions and enterprises that provide access to skill upgrading and technology development to
the micro- and small enterprise sector. Since vouchers give clients the purchasing power to select among
private or public institutons of their choice, this financing approach (pricing of the end product) is



107
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 12
particularly useful to help develop a market for training and thus prevent oversupply of any one type of
training and control costs.
11.   The voucher program would make provision for increasing women's representation in the
lucrative manufacturing sector. Particular attention would be paid to women's access to skills training
and technology suitable for upgrading their enterprises or for bringing them into the sector. To this end,
women would benefit from up to 50% basic technical skill training. Several vouchers would be awarded
to one individual to cover longer-termn enterprise-based attachments (see sections b. and c. below). To
be gender responsive, training sub-components would be flexible, yet targeted. While it may be easy to
award up to 50% of a given number of vouchers to women at the lower skill level, it may be difficult
to reach more than 10% women at the middle or upper skill levels.
12.   As a whole, the voucher program would facilitate skill upgrading in areas such as technical skills
and business management skills (accounting, computer applications, advisory services, elementary sales
techniques and product handling, product design and diversification, product marketing, standards
application and adaptation, sub-contracting as well as choice and use of appropriate technologies).
Eliibili criteria in the vouchers program would include the entrepreneur's and employee's background
(education/training and work experience), the growth potential of the particular business/trade, and gender
sensitivity. Priority would be given to training master craftsmen who could then improve the informal
apprenticeship system and enterprise-based training.
b. Eligibility and Award Criteria
13.   Jua Kali Associations in consultation with PTTO, YTO and other relevant judges (i.e., technical
assistance provided under the project) will screen potential enterprises and trainees to benefit from the
voucher program in order to ensure that: (a) they are suitable for skill upgrading, especially regarding
their intentions and backgrounds; and (b) they are likely to benefit from it. To this end, the Jua Kali
Associations would use the information provided on the application for membership of enterprises and
hold regular consultative meetings. Registration forms for the voucher program would be distributed free
of charge by the TGU secretariat and would be obtained at the regional association offices or detached
from official advertisements in national newspapers. The local Jua Kali Association would apply for the
total number of vouchers needed on a competitive basis and coordinate their distribution.
Enterprises /lEneeneurs eligible for the vouchers would have to meet the following
requirements:
- fill in a registration form for voucher program, which is distributed by the TGU
- be micro- or small enterprise registered with MRTT&T (1 to 49 employees)
- have a specific product line with growth potential
- have been in the same business for 2 to 3 years
- agree to pay opportunty costs.



108
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 12
Trainees/Employees eligible  or the vouchers would have to  meet the  following
requirements:
- fill in a registration form for voucher program, which is distributed by the TGU
- present trade test (III) or equivalent experience in trade
- have been employed for 2 to 3 years in the same trade
- have been on the payroll for six months before and remain thereon after training
provided that in the case of women, new entrants would be allowed direct entry into the training
program.
As a strategy to increase equity and incendves to improve entrepreneurs' and employees'
responsiveness and performance, additional vouchers may be issued to beneficiaries in cases where: a)
the trainee passes a grade test (II) and wishes to further upgrade his/her skills to pass trade test I (highest
grade); or b) the trainee wants to enter the sector through longer-term enterprise-based attachments, i.e.
women entrepreneurs.
Jua Kali Associations which meet the following criteria will be qualified to implement the
voucher program:
- they must have been registered with the MRTT&T for at least one year
- other criteria based on the number of registered members (micro- and small enterprises) and
their cost sharing ability and agreement.
c. Jmplementatlon/Adm    atlon Process
The roles and responsibilities of the MRTT&T and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations involved
in program coordination/management are as follows:
MRTT&T/DAT/TGU
The Training Unit (TGU), in consultation with the Project Steering Committee, will:
- be responsible for day-to-day administration
- develop a market for skills training responding to micro- and small enterprise training and
technology needs
- advise technical and managerial training providers in the preparation of project proposals
- review and process proposals on the basis( dentified informal sector training/technology needs
requirements (see Annex 11)



109
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 12
- prepare terms of reference and contracts required for executing projects
- provide Jua Kali associations or equivalent with guidelines and schedules describing program
and application procedures
- ensure that sub-project applications be submitted conform to eligibility criteria
- ensure that vouchers be designed, printed and distributed
Jua Kali Associations
The local Jua Kali Association with assistance from the Federation would be responsible for:
- sensitizing personnel and members, as well as women's organizations to mobilize
female membership, about the Project and informing them about the voucher program
(i.e., throug: Jua Kali magazine and marketing exhibitions and other fora)
- monitoring training and technology needs in the sector (i.e., through membership application
and DYTO and VSO officers -- see Annex 11)
- selection of enterprises/trainees and matchmaking through training officers/advisers and training
counseling (i.e., establish information network)
- applying periodically for the total number of vouchers allocated to Jua Kalis
- signing an agreement with the MRTT&T for the voucher program administration and monitoring
of the program at the local level
- defining additional criteria for selecting trainees if the demand for vouchers surpasses
- establishing national data base on enterprise-based training opportunities (involve District
chainyan and Provincial representatives -- see Annex 11)
d. Cost-sharing/Financing
14.   Under the voucher progratn, the beneficiaries will share the cost in terms of opportunity costs
Incurred by the training (i.e., lost income, transport and supplies). Although the Training Fund will
finance ninety percent of the voucher and remaining ten percent by the trainees in the initial stage, Jua
Kali Associations and/or individual artisans will be eventually expected to contribute to the full cost of
the training a t a later stage. Once the training schemes have proven themselves, flexible but competitive
fee paying agreements will be worked out between the Jua Kali Associations and the training institutions
(in consultation with PTTOs/YTOs). It also should be noted that training modalities will be flexible (i.e.,
easy access through outreach programs), in order to minimize opportunity costs. Training services will
be selected by the beneficiaries themselves.
15.   Administrative costs for MRTT&T would be reflected in the Training Unit's budget. According
to the agreement signed between the MRTT&T and the Jua Kali Association, the services provided by



110
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 12
the Jua Kali Federation/Association would be free of charge.
16.   Procedure for payment of vouchers involves the following general steps:  First, the
MRTr&T/DAT would submit to the MRTT&T/Finance and Accounts Department (FAD) voucher
programs for funding up to US$3,000 to be paid out of the Project Account. Second, the FAD would
deliver the vouchers to the eligible Jua Kali Associations. Trainees would receive the vouchers from the
Association and they would select training programs. In the event the trainee gets more than one
voucher, the trainee is able to transfer to other institutions. Training vouchers can be redeemed for cash
at the FAD by the approved training providers.
e. Audit/Monitoring
The DAT and the Jua Kali Federation/Associations involved in program implementation will have
the main responsibility for monitoring the voucher program.
MRTT&T will:
- ensure that the voucher program be effectively managed
- ensure that programs be monitored and supervised (see Annexes 17, 18, 19)
- ensure that sub-projects are executed in a timely manner and that the necessary financial
disbursements are similarly timely
- ensure reallocation of funds if necessary and reinforce procedures for recovering ineligible
expenses
- maintain and update directories of public and private training providers annually
Jua Kali Federation/Associations will:
- monitor the voucher program and periodically issue information reports to MRTT&T/DAT
- maintain and update directories of enterprise-based training opportunities annually
B. The Traning Contract Scheme
a. Description
17.   T}e contract scheme aims to award up to 1,500 training contracts for various courses and services
on a competitive basis. An average of 300 sub-projects are expected to be submitted to the Fund
anmually, ranging from enterprise-based skill upgrading to advanced tailor-made courses. Group-based
training would comprise 10-15 trainees each for technical training and 15-25 trainees each for
management training. A total of 30,000 entrepreneurs and employees are expected to benefit from
contract training.



^                 ~~~~~~111
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 12
18.   Two broad types of sub-projects have been identified for Training Fund financing: (a) enterprise-
based training (up to 50 percent of total contracts) and (b) residential and on-site skill upgrading in
technical and managerial subjects, including technical assistance for entrepreneurship development
(graduation) of small enterprises (up to 60 percent of total contracts). Employers who provide on-site
skill upgrading can receive reimbursement of up to 100 percent (within approved ceilings) for upgrading
training equipment related to skills upgrading and technology development. Training contracts can
include financing of: training of trainers, training-related equipment and instructional materials in basic,
intermediate and advanced courses in the main crafts/trades.
b. Eligibility and Award Criteria
19.   To ensure demand responsiveness, providers will be required to submit proposals based on
identified training and technology needs. The institution's capacity to deliver proposed services and
maintain auditable accounts should be clearly evident. Since group training is generally more cost-
effective than individualized training, participating institutions will be expected to prepare group training
outlines, especially in management courses, according to the guidelines to be prepared and distributed
by the Training Unit. Training methods should be suitable to an adult population. Institutions should
be willing to establish links with Jua Kali Associations and offer acceptable, affordable and equitable skdll
improvement courses to those Jua Kalis nearest the institutions.
The criteria for participation in the training contract scheme by public and private institutions
would be as follows:
- they must provide complete courses (one of the outcomes is a product)
- they must have professional instructors (i.e., master craftsman)
- they must present acceptable trade test pass rate for trainees where applicable
- they must meet minimum facility requirements determined by MRTT&T standards
- they must provide supervision by training officers
- they must have technical capacity, equipment and relevant experience in providing training to
the sector.
In addition, training proposals, submitted by training institutions and enterprises must satisfy the
following criteria:
- they must be responsive to training and technology needs assessment
- they must use existing training capacity (e.g., ITCs)
- they must provide links both to skill upgrading and access to information and new/appropriate
technology
- they must provide a measure of cost recovery (e.g., infrastructure, equipment and fees)



112
ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 12
- they must maintain auditible accounts
- they must involve local employers in the training process
- the proposed training must be accessible to micro and small enterprises, especially owned by
women.
20.    Other specific criteria will be prepared by the Training and Gender Unit (TGU), DAT on a
regular basis. Institutions and enterprises selected for the contract program will be required to participate
in regular evaluations (studies and sample surveys) measuring the quality of training provided. Once the
monitoring and evaluation system is in place, improvement in quality indicators will be considered a
conditior for disbursement by the Bank (See also Attachment L for Project impact evaluation).
c. Implementation/Administration Process
21.   Once the project is announced, public and private training institutions and private enterprises will
be invited to submit sub-project proposals (including time frame, content, methods, cost and expected
outcome of the skill upgrading) to the TGU. Proposals for providing technical and managerial training,
as well as technological support services, will be reviewed and processed by the TGU in consultation with
the Project Steering Committee (PSC) on the basis of the established criteria as above. In principle,
training providers will be expected to develop sub-project proposals in consultation with the TGU and
Jua Kali Federation/Associations.
The selected training providers should present the TGU with the following information:
- details of enrollment capacity (present and projected)
- details of current training capacity (classrooms and other facilities, presence of trainers and
training materials)
- details of operating license and insurance
- details of training action plan and schedules
- details of course fee, monthly fee, etc. as listed in directory
22.   The TGU will also maintain directories of public and private training providers, including
enterprises, act as a match-making broker and advise approved technical training organizations and
enterprises in the preparation of project proposals and, where necessary, advise in their initial execution.
It will prepare terms of reference and contracts required for sub-project execution and ensure that sub-
project applications submitted to the TGU meet allocation criteria, such as training and technology needs
identified by the appropriate unit to be established at MRTT&T/PDU (see Annex 11). Moreover, to
prevent financing of productive work that would have taken place in any event, enterprise-based training
criteria will be the same as above and be closely monitored.



113
ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 12
d. Cost-sharing/Financing
23.   As a partial cost recovery strategy, beneficiaries are expected to pay minimal training fees, similar
to those currently charged by the ITCs for Jua Kali artisans. Once the training schemes have proven
themselves, flexible but competitive fee paying arrangements could be worked out between the Jua Kali
Associations and the training institutions (in consultation with PTTOstYTOs). The underlying assumption
of this approach is that demanding fees (even non-economic ones) for services provides an indication that
the services are of value. Therefore, it can be expected that training fees will adjust to demand if
information about costs and training outcomes is available to clients. In this way, trainir'g institutions
can be held accountable for price and quality of training available in the market place.
24.   Contracts will be awarded on the basis of the number of trainees to be trained and active
recruitment of women. They will be limited to maximum amounts of money (i.e., US$3,600 average
amount per contract/course). However, cumulative financing for any given enterprise or institution will
be determined by market forces and quality indicators, given the competitive basis of the skill upgrading
schemes.
25.   To provide incentives for public and private institutions, such as the ITCs and private enterprises,
to participate in the program, they should have operational autonomy. This would especially require that
the ITCs have the authority to retain funds generated through skill upgrading courses and other income
generating activities for their institutional development.
26.   Procedure for payment of contracts would involve two basic steps: First, the MRTT&T/DAT
would submit to the MRTT&T Finance and Accounts Department (FAD) sub-projects for funding up to
US$10,000 to be paid out of the Project Account. Second, the FAD would reimburse training providers
for services delivered.
e. Audit/Monitoring
The MRTT&T/DAT Training Unit will have the main responsibility for monitoring the contract
scheme in consultation with the Project Steering Committee.
MRTT&TtDAT/Training Unit will:
- ensure that the contract scheme be effectively managed
- ensure that programs be monitored
- ensure sub-projects are executed in a timely manner and that the necessary financial
disbursements are similarly timely
- ensure reallocation of funds if necessary and reinforce procedures for recovering ineligible
expenses



114             ANNr-: 9
Page 10 of 12
C. Technology Study Visits
a. Descrir n
27.   The Project would sponsor about 200 techmology study visits for selected innovator/entrepreneurs
to East and South Asia and Africa. These visits would be organized for promising Jua Kali manufacturers
by product sub-sector and last up to 30 days. The visits could also include short attachments with foreign
enterprises. A panel of judges (including providers of snall enterprise programs would be selected to
identify the potential beneficiaries during market exhibitions or training. The panel would formalize the
nominations, including suitable places of visits or attachments.
b. Eligibility Criteria
The eligibility and award criteria of innovators/entrepreneurs eligible for the technology study
visits would be as follows:
- beneficiaries must have been nominated by the selection panel
- they must be promising innovators/entrepreneurs in a sub-sector
- they must have demonstrated experience with products and technologies having regard to
originality and quality of products, potential for commercialization and cost-effectiveness in
production methodologies
- they must have demonstrated improvements in productivity, e.g., job creation and profit
- they must have a strategy for product development and marketing
- they must have a business plan for enterprise development.
C. Implementation/Administaton Process
This program would be contracted out through the Center for Research and Technology (CRT)
at MRTT&T/DAT to machmaker/brokers utilizing ICB. It would be closely monitored to ensure that
the allowance is utilized for the intended purpose.
d. Cost-sharing/Fiancing
28.   The beneficiaries would share the costs in terms of oppotunity costs incurred during the training
(e.g., lost income, transport, registration fees, etc.). !7nancing of technology study visits would include
transportation costs, per diem, and related program operating costs. The project would also provide a
technology procurement allowance of up to $300 per participant to purchase a new piece of
equipment/technology for utilization in Kenya, while the cost exceeding this amount would be paid by
the participant. There would be no import tax duties on this equipment up to Ksh 20 million in value.
The participants would be required to submit reports of the study visit upon the completion of the their
visits and to attend technology and marketing exhibitions at least once to share their experiences. They
also may be required to participate in the training activities from tim t. time. The program would be
closely monitored so as to allow for reallocation of funds depending on actual performance and actual
verifiable expenses.



115
ANNEX 9
Page 11 of 12
V. Examples of Training Progam Unit Costs'
A. Private Institutions and NGOs
Non-subsidized training costs for business and management courses (cost of trainers' fees,
transportation, subsistence, and training materials) are estimated at $125 per day of training provided to
a group of 25 persons, or $5 per participant. Therefore, a training voucher worth $150 would cover 30
days of group-based training for one person. A voucher worth $200 might cover 10 full days of skdll
upgrading for one person.
B. Mombasa Industrial Traning Center
Actual cost per trainee covering training materials only for a six-week course during 1991.
Economic course fees would be double or even triple.
Costs for in the following trades:
Fitter General                   KSH   738.
Machinist                         n    793.
Welder                            "     1,339.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic           it    26.
Motor Vehicle Electric                  1,208.
Diesel Engineer Mechanic                728.
Masonry                           n    666.
Plumber Pipe Fitter                     1,064.
Electrical Installation           "     1,077.
Refrigerationi Mech&aic                 531.
Carpentry                        735.
There are generally 15 trainees in each course (basic, intermediate and advanced). In 1991 the
cost to train 128 students amounted to KSH 113,276.00 (about $3,250 or $25 per student).
Training costs for evening course students are estimated at KSH 70 per student per evening.
ITCs have been charging Jua Kalis non-economic fees KSH 500 to 800 per six-week evening course.
The real cost is estinated at KSH 1,700, which include the cost for standard items needed for training
(tools and raw materials).
Three week tailor made courses may cost KSH 15,000 for board, 27,000 for materials
and 36,000 for instructor overtime, which amounts to a total of KSH 78,000 (US$ 2,228).
1  As of March 1993. Unit costs have substantially increased since then.



116
ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 12
C. Mombasa Polytechnical Institute
A five-day instrwnentation course for about 5 students may range from KSH 2,000 to 6,000 per
day (US$ 57 to 171) depending on the hourly rate and contact ratio.
D. Kisumu Technical TrWning Institute
Jua Kali fees amount to KSH 800 per month for evening skill-upgrading courses.
E. Kenya Idustrial Research Development Iostie (KIRDI)
Charge for short training courses in process and product development (prototype production) total
US$ 150 per day, including raw materials.
VI. Guide to Draft Government Decision Establishing the Project Training Fund
Considering the level of unemployment__ _ _
Considering the need to upgrade and develop new skills among the labor force to increase its
productivity and income, as well as employment opportunities
Considering the weaknesses of the VET system and lack of skill upgrading opportunities for
informal sector enterprises___
The Government decides to create a Training Fund and agrees to the following:
(a) the selection criteria and reimbursement categories for activities to be financed under the
Fund; (b) clients to be served; (c) minimum contractor performance criteria; and (d) the contents
of the service agreement to be established between the Fund and the MRTT&T.
CHAPFER 1. General
CHAWR 2. Guiding Principles of Fund Activities
CHAFFR 3. Revenues and Resources of the Fund
CHAPTER 4. Fund's Organizational Structure
CHAPTER S. Auditing
CHAPFER 6. Temporary and Final Provisions



117                       ANNEX 10
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
APPLIED TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
I. Purposes
1.    The purposes of the program are to: (1) stimulate applied technology research and innovation;
(2) encourage the participation of entrepreneurs in technological innovation; and (3) increase private
sector support for the connercialization of indigenous production technologies.
II. Description of Competitive Grants Program
2.    The Grant program consists of the following three (3) stages:
Stage 1.:    The objective is to establish the technical merit and feasibility of the proposed applied
research and to qualify the grantee for stage 2 funding. The expected output is a
comprehensive Feasibility Study Report. The grants are for a maximum of $3,000
with a performance period of from 6 to 9 months. The Project has allocated funds to
support at least 50 grant awards.
Stage 2.:    The objective is to continue the development efforts of Stage 1 with the aim of
developing an innovation which is expected to be commercialized in Stage 3. The
expected output(s) are a prototype and/or a patent given by the Kenya Industrial
Property Office (KIPO) for the innovation. The grant also has provisions to support
the preparation of a Commercialization Plan for the prototype or patent. The grants
are for a maximum of $10,000 with a performance period not to exceed 24 months.
The development of the prototype could be coordinated with the Kenya Industrial
Research and Develonment Institute (KIRDI) an agency under the MRTT&T with
staff and facilities specifically geared for prototype development. The Project has
allocations for at least 25 Stage 2 grant awards. Products or processes that are ready
for prototype development or patent registration may be eligible for Stage 2 funding if
the proponents satisfy the requirement of submission of Feasibility Study Report.
Stage 3:     The objective is to commercialize the results of Stage 2 developments involving the
business sector and utilizing private funds. No grant funds are available for this
stage.
III. Eligibility Criteria
3.    The following are eligible for the Grants Program: (1) Jua Kali innovators; (2) Research and
technology development institutions, public or private; and (3) Individuals and private business firms.
Individuals, firms and R&D institutions must have linkages with the Jua Kali sector in order to
qualify.



ANNEX 10
118                      Page 2 of 4
IV. Preparation of Stage 1 Proposal
4.    The innovation will be judged primarily on the quality of the proposal. Stage 1 proposals are
limited to 25 pages including all text, figures, etc. The content will include a description of the
innovation, how it relates to the Jua Kali sector, the technical background of the proponent and the
personnel involved in the proposed work, and the action plan for conducting the applied research.
5.    The proposals should be submitted to the Directorate of Research and Development (DRD) of
the MRTT&T (Attn: Applied Technology Research Grants Program). The Proposal mu:st be received
by the DRD before the deadline specified in the Notices to be publishet'd about the Grants Program.
6.    Proponents are eligible for only one Stage 1 Grant award for a particular innovation. If they
have more than one innovation, they are eligible for consideration for a grant for each different
innovation proposed.
V. Awards Criteria
7.    Grants will be awarded by the Permanent Secretary upon the recommendation of an Applied
Research Grants Awards Committee (the Committee) on the basis of the following criteria (with
corresponding weights):
a.    Technological quality, innovativeness and originality  40%
b.    Commercial significance of the product or process
(market potential)                                  20%
C.    Workplan                                             20%
d.    Qualifications, facilities & other resources of
proponent                                            20%
100%
VI. Awards Committee
8.    The DRD will organize the Committee to evaluate proposals and award grants to outstanding
technological innovations. The Conmmittee will be composed of the following:
a.    National Council for Science and Technology Representative - Chairman.
b.    Director of Research Development - Secretary
c.    Director of Applied Technology - Member
d.    Business Sector Representative - Member
e.    Jua Kali Federation Representative - Member
f.    Relevant experts as technical consultants to the Committee.



119
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
9.    The Directorate of Research Development (DRD) will provide the technical secretariat and the
administrative support to the Awards Committee with the Director of Research Development acting as
Secretary of the Committee. The Director of Research Development will identify and recommend to
the Awards Committee relevant experts that can help the Committee make competent evaluation of
proposals.
10.   The Awards Committee will submit to the Permanent Secretary (PS), MRTT&T its
recommendation with regards to the winning technological innovations and the corresponding grant
amounts. The Permanent Secretary will make the final decision and announcement of the Grant
Awards.
VII. Awarding Dates
11.   The Awards Committee will accept and evaluate Applied Research Grant proposals two times
a year, e.g., March 15 and September 15 of every year. Announcement of winners will be made
within two (2) months of the closing dates.
VII. Feasibiity Study Report
12.   The Feasibility Study Report is the main output of Stage 1 and is the major requirement for
Stage 2 funding. The Feasibility Study Report is expected to cover the following major aspects of the
technological innovation: (1) role of the product (or process) in the particular industry; (2) market
survey and demand estimate; (3) technical feasibility; (4) cost-benefit analysis; (5) implementation
plan; and (6) budget proposal.
13.   In the preparation of the Feasibility Study Report, the proponent may wish to avail of the
services of the faculty and staff of Universities, National Polytechnics, Small Business Centers and
even consultants from business, industry or non-governental organization.
IX. Counterpart Funding
14.   Grant applicants are required to provide counterpart funding to the Applied Research Grants
equivalent to at least fifty percent (50%) of total grant amount. The counterpart funding may be a
cash outlay or an imputed cost consisting of existing personnel, equipment, buildings and other
facilities.
X. Targets and Budgets
15.   The attached Tables show the target minimum number of grants and maximum budget over
the 6-year life of the projet.



120                      ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
Minimum Targets of Grants
1      2      3      4        5       6       TOTAL
Stage I         1      4       5     10      15       15        50
StageII        0       0       1     2        7       15       25
TOTAL           1      4       6      12      22      30       75
Maximum Budget for Applied Research Grants Program
7   1    2         3         4         5        6       TOTAL
Stage I    3,000    12,000    15,000    30,000    45,000   45,000   150,000
Stage II   -         -       10,000    20,000    70,000  150,000  250,000
TOTAL    3,000    12,000    25,000    50,000    115,000  195,000  400,000
Note: Budget for Stage 1 = $3,000 maximum; Stage 2 = $10,000 maximum per proposal



121
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
ASSESSING TRAINING CAPACITY, SKILL AND
RELATED TECHNOLOGY NEEDS
I. Background
1.    Needs assessment capacity is central to establishing an effective and relevant training system.
To maintain a responsive system, information is required not only on the types of training offered in the
various institutions, but also on the demand for such training and skill upgrading. To obtain a cost
effective and sustainable system, it is crucial that existing training capacity, especially in public
institutions, be used fully and the performance and quality of training institutions and programs be closely
monitored. To make the system more effective, the design of skill upgrading programs must be both
market-driven and skills-driven (i.e., linked to the development and maintenance of standards of
performance in skills training as well as associated examinations and tests).
2.    The Ministry of Labor, through the National Employment Bureau, has been involved in some
labor market monitoring and has been attempting to run what could be called an employment service.
It comprises employment promotion and planning as well as guidance counselling for those who either
work or are seeking work. However, these services do not reach informal sector workers and they are
limited by a lack of data about the trained manpower actually supplied to the labor market. There is no
relevant information about vacancies (required by the Employment Service Rules of 1977), which would
provide a link between job seekers and employers, a situation which the ILO is helping to rectify.
Comprehensive data about trained labor, both within and outside the country, are needed to properly
monitor (a) the quality and quantity of training supply and outcomes, as well as (b) skill and technology
needs at various levels and (c) to develop training policies.
U1. Objectives
3.    Establishing a skill and technology monitoring and needs assessment function at the
MRTT&T/PDU will make the training system more responsive to skill and technology needs of the labor
market, including micro- and small enterprises. Such a system would be designed to provide ongoing
information on the training supply and the skill and teclmology needs of the labor market. Such
information will be disseminated through various media (publications, directories, exhibitions, etc.) in
order to inform training providers and beneficiaries about existing and required skill upgrading/training
programs and related support services. Where possible, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will rely
on existing sources of information (i.e., at the Ministry of Labor).
4.    In cases where no existing data sources are available this Unit will facilitate research and
evaluation studies. Objectives would include to: (1) determine technology levels within th;; sector and
technical problems hampering technological growth; (2) procure appropriate technological option: to these
identified technical problems; (3) carry out technical research in order to obtain relevant technology
packages for dissemination within the sector; or (4) evaluate the quality of training programs and trade
tests in collaboration with the Inspectorate, the DIT and employers through the National Industrial
Training Council (NITC).



122
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
5.    The establishment of these key planning functions will strengthen the Ministry's capacity to
implement Government policy to respond to the skill and technology needs of productive sectors,
particularly the informal sector. The monitoring and evaluation system will provide guidance and criteria
for funding specific training and technology interventions. In the long term, with the cooperation of the
NITC and the National Jua Kali Federation/Associations, the MRTT&T will develop longer term training
strategies for the productive sectors on the basis of specific studies (including the assessment of the
Industrial Training Levy) as well as the country's economic development strategy. The following are
guidelines for designing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation capacity at MRTT&T.
IH. Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Assessig Training Capacity
6.    Facilitating matchmaking between training supply and informal sector skill upgrading needs will
be done through systematic monitoring and periodic evaluadton of training programs and providers. Such
information will be gathered and disseminated through various channels such as studies, surveys,
application forms, the Jua Kali magazine, and directories. They will be updated in the light of new
information.
Directories would provide simple comprehensive and up-to-date monitoring and evaluation of
training provided and available including:
a.    a directory of traing lnstitutions updated anually (public and private)
- mformation on relevant experience in the sector and operatng license
- data on skill upgrading courses and counseling (support services) provided
- data on scheduled programs and fees (i.e., training plan)
- records of trainers, particularly entrepreneurs and master craftsmen, who have been trained to
train others
- data on technical capacity equipment
b.    a directory of enterpise-based   aing opportuni es updated annually
- information on business details and relevant experience
- data on capacity (i.e., facilities, presence of in-plant instructors and training equipment)
- information on authorization to provide skill upgrading in a particular trade(s)
- information on skill training and attachments (including information on insurance)



123                         ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
7.    The design of new skill and production technology upgrading courses, as well as the development
of trade tests (III to 1) will be based both on: (1) an evaluation of the supply and outcomes of training
and (2) changing informal sector market demands and training needs. Policy research and surveys will
provide the following information:
c.    evaluation reports
- assessment and improvement of the quality of skill upgrading programs
- assessment and up-dating of trade tests linking skill upgrading and technology development
- survey data on training outcomes in enterprises (i.e., a welding product)
B. Assessing SkIll Upgading Needs
8.    Skill upgrading needs can be identified through various channels:  Jua Kali Association
membership applications, follow-up of market exhibitions, and training programs. Many Jua Kalis are
already among those registered clients of small enterprse programs such as KEE/ISP, K-REP, IYB, KIM
etc. as well as MRTT&T. The computeization of the trade testing system at MRTT&T/DIT and its bio-
data information on trainees will also help to gauge skill training provided and required.
Available information on skill upgrading needs can be disseminated through:
- a directory of Jua Kali associations which are interested in skill and management training for
their members
- MRTI&T/Jua Kali Federation/Associations' mobilization and outreach efforts
- sensitizing Jua Kalis themselves about available skldl upgrading opporanities
C. Assssing Production Technology and Requirments
9.    The determination of production technology capacity requirements will be mainly based on: (1)
research into the changing informal sector market demands and (2) regular follow-up assessments of the
market exhibitions and trade fairs (i.e., the quality of products and production methods and Jua Kali
products/services for export and sub-contracting promotion), as well as membership applications
indicating technology requirements. Such data will also be fed into the information clearing house, trade
exhibitions and technology study tours.
10.   For instance, survey research will focus on identification of all exportable products made by the
Jua Kali sector in the country and technical capacity and constraints affecting the quantity and quality of
production and efficiency of manufacturing productivity in the informal sector.
11.   Surveys of Jua Kali products and services for export and sub-contracting promotion would
also identify the appropriate operators to venture into the export market and the products/services that
could be used in sub-contracting exchange with other firms. The information will be particularly useful
to the National Federation of Jua Kali Associations, the Kenya External Trade Authority (KETA), the



124
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
Ministry of Conmmerce and Industry and the Kenya sub-contracting program exchange. Surveys wo'ild
on a regular basis:
- identify those Jua Kali products/services that can be exported or used in sub-contracting
exchange program and make an invetory of the same on a computer data base as well as in
a catalogue to be updated regularly
- identify the obstacles faced by the Jua Kal 'perators that hinder the export or sub-contracting
of their products/services
- review the current sources of raw materials, tools and equipment in regard to price and quality,
and make appropriate recommendations
- review the products made in regard to quality and recommend appropriate training and
technology where required
- review and make recommendatons on design, packaging, pricing and promotion of the
products/services
- examine and recommend appropriate solutions to the current lack of market information
- identify Jua Kali artisans who are sub-contracted by other firms
12.   Other policy rdated research would focus on factors affecting technology choice, such as:
- the needs and priorities of entrepreneurs
- entrepreneurs' access to tools, skills, equipment maintenance and repair facilities, power
supply, training facilities and information on products, processes and techniques
- access to other resources such as cash, raw materials and markets
- sources of technology innovation and dissenination
- financial and technical resources needed to withstand the risks of new product development
- the lack of technical expertise needed for transfer of technologies
- business risks associated with new products
- linkages between users and man ers (providers of intermediate goods for larger
enterprises)
- linkages between training and acquisition of new technology



ANNEX 12
125                                            Page 1 of 3
K25
KENYA
Mtcro-and Sr ll Enterprise Trg.   T tech. Project
Project Cost Sumry
Us$                                  K VW                              I Total
-Lcal  Foreign       Total          Loca      Foreign       total    bechange       Costs
vvvo*swo;**v6e*s*^***^^*. . .. .    .. .. .. .. . .. . .ww*^s**v^vv . . . . . . . . . . ............... .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. , . oo
A . Training Fund                      9362.4    2158.6   11521.0        624160.0   143906.7   761066.7            18.?      S5.2
S . Tech. & Infrastructure             236.9    3152.9   S521.8          1S7927.0   210191.0   368118.0           S7.1       26.4
C . Institutioml Oovotep.ant            686.7    1458.0    2144.7         43780.0    97203.3   142983.3           68.0       10.3
S . qplapemtatien                      1034.5    6S5.2    1689.8          68969.8    43681.3   112651.1           38.8        8.1
: ... :  . ......................................    .................................   ............................................ ..........
Total QASELINE COSTS                   13452.6   7424.7   20877.3         896836.8   494982.3  1391819.1           35.6      100.0
Phys"cal Contingencles               672.6      371.2    1043.9          4841.8    24749.1    69591.0           35.6        5.0
Price tontingencles                  1472.0     804.7    2276.7        365818.9   1M7178.8    42997.7           32.6       39.0
,,, .....,,........... ...............  .............................. ,,.... ,,.......................... ................,_
Total *loJECT5COSTS                    955r.2   860O.?    2419u.9       130f49h.6    69h910.2  200440h.8          34.8      144.0
.....................................................................................................
alues Scaled b4 1000.0-  10/7-/1993  11-41
KENA
ticro-ad stl;  Enterprise Tr8. * Teac. Project
ProJects Conents by  erow
totaels Including contingencIs
K $ha
1994       1995         1996       199?        1998        1999      total
gsaggmsaaSuaausasgaaguuseuauaSaaausuaauuegaaaugaaegu
A. Training Fund                       30996.4    686.7   172965.8   243125.4   262124.9  371340.6  1148199.8
S. Tech. & Infrastructure              27175.4   132876.8   198187.9    50600.7    49711.         5824.1   S16846.5
C. Institutiatl DOlapment              S1378.7    7824.7    23281.7    18857.3          5339.9     9478.3   186620.7
0. Iuppleentation                      44933.2    18536.7    20587.0    22306.0    22149.5    24228.4   152740.8
......................... ........................................................................................... *
Total PtOJECTS COSTS                    15483.?   29834.8   415022.6   334889.5   339325.8   462341.4  2004407.8
.................................0.        . 1: ...................................................................
Vatum Seated by 1000.0 tOt7/1993 11tU



USIA                                           ~~~~~~~ANNEX 12-
merean   tsU  garprio  tr.. a Vedi. Prsbej                                                A    N 12
s AY ,A,.A  i  P.Ject CaWeS_                        126                          Page 2 of 3
ma
Insttut                                    PhIcal              9riex
Trch. S    tnawt                                   Contingencies      CMting" cit
training  Inf retr  0ovo1e    tai     l                      ...............................
r        ucture        nt      tatn            toet           I     Amunt        I   Amt
l. tVIVSThENT COSTS
i. Coatruatton                           0.0    1780.0         0.0        0.0        1780.0        5.0       89.0      8.0      142.?
2. Reovation                              0.0       0.0        .        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
3. WaCtr StWly 9 SanItation               0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
4. Electricity S4*ty                      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
._......;___.---... ..--._-.-_______.__.___......................................................................._
Sb-tatal                              .  0.0    1780.0         0.0        0.0        1710.0'       5.0       89.0      8.0      142.?
1. FurnItur*                             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        O.0        0.0      .O        0.0
-   2. VehIctes                               0.0       0.0       60.0       60.1.        120.0        5.0        6.0      2.8        3.4
3. tnfonmtlon Technoloty                  0.0      20.6       40.0        8.0          68.6        5.0        3.4      4.0        2.?
4. Machinery                              0.0     129.6        0.0        0.0         129.6        5.0        6.5    13.3        17.3
S. tnstructionat t1qipent                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.o        0.0
6. Other Equipent                         0.0      38.9        0.0       1.            53.9        5.0        2.7     63          3.4
__.___ ........._..._____........--__-.............  ______..._.____.____._ .........................................................................__ .
s5h-total                                0.0      189.1      100.0       83.0        372.1         5.0       18.6      7.2      2e.8
C. Trafining
i. Management TrainrWg                1500.0        0.0      473.2      190.4       2163.6         5.0      108.2    12.2      2S4.1
2  Apprentfeaship training            4000.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        4400.0        9.O      20e.0    12.8      $13.S
3. Contrect training                  3400.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        5400.0        5.0      270.0    12.5      673.O
4. Tralnlng of Train e                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
S. Foreign Traninng                       0.0       0.0        0.0      216.0         216.0        5.o       10.8    11.9        I5.?
6. Locat Trlaiing                         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
__._......__.___._....._____._.......... ..... -^...-.-..._--.-._._._.__.............................__._........__ .........._
Sab-totat                            10900.0        0.0      47n.2      406.4       11779.6        5.0      589.0    12.5    1476.0
0. Technicat Assisanc.e
1. Forelgn Tech. Asststanc             189.0      126.0      425.5        0.0        740.5         5.0       37.0     6.2       45.7
2. Ltcl Tech. Assistwe                 432.0      652.0      571.0      962.4       2617.4         5.0      130.9      7.1     185.1
__. __..._._........................................... -; Z----.................. --__...... .____.................____......... __
5th-total                              621.0      m.0        996.5      962.4       3337.9         3.0      167.9      6.9     230.?
t. ApPlIed Research
1. Publicationa                          0.0      101.2        0.0        0.0        101.2         5.0        5.1    11.1        11.3
2. uIorksho                               0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0
3. NYnraria                               0.0        0.0     340.0        0.0        340.0         5.0       17.0    10.4       35.2
4. Research Materials                     0.0       0.0        9.0        0.0           9.0        5.0        0.4     6.5         0.6
S. Research Overheads                     0.0     400.0        0.0        0.0        400.0         5.0       20.0    13.2       60.9
_______,,_____,., ............ __..................................
S-thettal                                 0.0     501.2      349.0        0.0        850.2         5.0      4U.5       2.?     108.0
___ ~~~~~~~~~~.._._.__.........,,._.._.__._..,________,,____,....
Tctal tiVtSTMENT COSTS                 1t521.     324S.3    1918.?    1451.8         t439.8         5.0      917.0    10.9    1984.3
It. RECURREtT COSTS
................... ................. 
A. Maintenance
1. Road maintenane                       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0
2.  uitdIng Maintennce                   0.0        0.0        0.0       30.0         30.0        5.0        1.5    14.5        4.3
3. Equipment MaintenAe                   0.0       28.2        0.0        0.0         28.2        5.0        1.4    11.2        3.1
4. Other Geeral NaIntenance              0.0        0.0       60.0       90.0        150.0        5.0        7.5      9.7       14.6
__ ............................... .........................._-._...__.__.............
Sub-total                                0.0       28.2       60.0      120.0        208.2        5.0       10.4    10.6       22.1
S. materials and Supplies
1. instructIoast MaterIals               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0
2. Offtice Supptles                      0.0       62.1       66.0       48.0        176.1        5.0        8.8    11.5       20.2
3. Materials Supplites                   0.0    1000.0       100.0       15.0       1115.0        5.0     :55.?      8.3       9B.8
.................... :..... ;.. ......Z........  .................     ..... ..... _ .  _. _.. _ .  _____........................._
Stb-tetal                                0.0    1062.1       166.0       63.0       1291.1        5.0       64.6      8.?     113.0
C. Travel
1. Foreign Travel                        0.0      383.0        0.0        0.0       383.0         5.0       19.1    14.6       56.0
2. Local Travel                          0.0       44.2        0.0        0.0         44.2        5.0        2.2    10.6        4.7
3. Per Olef                               0.0     756.0        0.0       26.2        782.2        5.0       39.1    12.0       94.0
.......  ... ;;:i .....Z.... _;:                        ..... __ .__.... _;..._ ;.............
Sub-total                                0.0    118.2          0.0       36.2       1209.4        5.0       60.5    12.8   * 154.7
0. Satlries
1. Satlries                              0.0        0.0        0.0      28.8         28.8         5.0        1.4     9.2        2.7
............................................................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0    2273.5       226.0      238.0      2717.!         5.0      136.9    10.7      m.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                  11S21.0    5512.8    2144.7    1689.8        20877.3         5.0    1043.9    10.9    2276.7
Physical Contingencies                576.0      276.1      107.2       84.5      1043.9
Price Contingencies                  1441.6      533.2      159.0      142.8      2276.7         4.8      108.4
............................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                   13538.7    6331.1    2411.0    1917.1        24197.9         4.8    1152.3      9.4    2276.7
Taxes                                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0
foreign Exchange                     2566.4    3635.0    1647.8       751.5       8600.7         4.8     409.6



cErYA                                                                                 ANNEXj1
icro-and Small AEnterprise Trg. S Tech. Project                    127
Suonry Accomits Cost St mco.ry v3Of
USS                                    K Shs                                   X Tott
..........................  .....................X Foreign                    ease
* Local    Foreign       Total             Local      forefgn        Total Exchange  -  Costs
...........................  ........................................... ... .... . ..   ....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Construction                      676.4    1103.6    1780.0             45093.3      73573.3    118666.7            62.0        8.5
2. Renovation                           0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0
3. Water Supply & Sanitation            0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0 00
4. Electricity Supply                   0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0
..................... .........  .. .................                            ....................
Sub-Total                                676.4    1103.6    1780.0             43093.3      73573.3   118666.7             0.1         0.0
B. Equipment                                                      0..
1. Furniture                            1.        2 0.0        0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0        0.6
2. Vehicles                             0.0      120.0      120.0               o.o      8000.0       E000.0          100.0        0.6
3. information Technology              16.1       52.5        68.6           1072.0      3501.3       4573.3           76.6        0.3
S. Machinery                            0.0      129.6       129.6              0.0      8640.0       8640.0          100.0        0.6
5.. Instructional Equipment             0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0           o.o        o.o
6. Other Equipment                     16.2       37.7        53.9           1078.2      2515.8       3594.0           70.0        0.3
..............................  .................................  ...................
Sub-Total                                 32.3      339.9       372.1           2150.2    22657.1        24807.3           0.1        0.0
C. Training
1. Management Trainins               979.7    1183.9    2163.6             65311.2    78930.0   144241.2              54.7        10.4
2. Apprenticeship Training          3600.0       400.0    4000.0          240000.0    26666.7   266666.7              10.0        19.2
3. Contract Training                4860.0       540.0    5400.0          324000.0    36000.0   360000.0               10.0       25.9
4. Training of Trainers                 0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
S. foreign Training                     0.0      216.0      216.0               0.0     14400.0      14400.0         100.0         1.0
6. Local Training                       0.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
.......... ...................  ................................. ...................
Sub-Totat                               9439.7    2339.9   11779.6           629311.2   155996.7   785307.9                a.o        0.1
0. Technicat Assistance
1. Foreign Tech. Assistance             0.0      740.5      740.5               0.0     49366.7    49366.7           100.0        3.5
2. Local Tech. Assistance           1832.2       785.2    2617.4          122145.3    52348.0   174493.3              30.0        12.5
Sub-Total                      -        1832.2    1525.7    3357.9            122145.3   101714.6   223859.9               0.0        0.0
E. ApplTed Research
1. Publications                         0.0      101.2      101.2               0.0      6746.7       6746.7         100.0        0.5
2. Workshops                            O.0        0.0         0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
3. Honorsria                            0.0      340.0      340.0              .0.0    22666.7    22666.7.           100.0         1.6
4. Research Hateritals                  9.0        0.0         9.0            600.0          0.0       600.0           0.0        0.0
S. Research Overheads                200.0       200.0      400.0          13333.3    13333.3    26666.7              50.0         1.9
Sub-Total                                209.0      641.2       8so.2          13933.3    42746.7    56680.0              0.1         0.0
,.....                                                      ................. ........... ....  ...... ........    --------------. i..........
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 12189.5    5950.3   18139.8           812633.4   396688.4  1209321.8              32.8        86.9
..............................    ............................              .    ................ ............... ........................... ...............
-i. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Maintenance
1. Road Maintenance                     0.0        0.0        0.0               0.0         0.0          0.0.        0.0        0.0
2.  uiTlding Maintenance               24.0        6.0       30.0           1600.0        400.0       2000.0        20.0         0.1
3. Equipment Maintenance                5.6       22.5       28.2            375.5       1S01.9       1877.3        80.0         0.1
4. Other General Maintenance          120.0       30.0       150.0          8000.0       2000.0      10000.0.       20.0         0.7
...... ......... ................... ............................................. .......................................
Sub-Total                                149.6        58.5      208.2           9975.5       3901.9     13877.3   -    o.o          o.o
B. Materials and suppties
1. Instructional Materitals             0.0        0.0        0.0               0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
2. offfce Supplies                    35.2       140.9      176.1         . 2348.0       9392.0      11740.0        80.0        0.8
3. Materiels Supplies                 223.0      892.0    1115.0           14866.7    59466.7    74333.3.           80.0        5.3
Sub-Total                                25a.2    1032.9    1291.1             17214.7    68858.7    860n3.3            0.1         0.0
C. Travel
1. Foreign Travel                       0.0      383.0      383.o               0.0    25533.3    25533.3          100.0        1.8
2. Local Travel                        44.2        0.0       44.2           2946.7           0.0      2946.7         0.0        0.2
3. Per Diem                          782.2         0.0      782.2          52146.7           0.0    52146.7          0.0        3.7
....... _. .. ,,,,........ ,,.,,,,,,,.,f,...................    ..................................................... .
Sub-Total                                826.4      383.0    1209.4            ss093.3     25533.3    80626.7           0.0         0.0
0. Salaries
1. Salaries                           28.8         0.0       28.8           1920.0           0.0      1920.0         0.0        0.1
................ ......................... ......... ..................    ..................................... ...............................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   1263.1    1474.4    2737.5             84203.5    98293.9   182497.3           53.9        13.1
..............................    ................................................................. ........................
Total BASELINE COSTS                   13452.6    7424.7   20877.3           896836.8   494982.3  1391819.1            35.6       100.0
Physical Contirgencies               672.6       371.2    1043.9           44841.8    24749.1        69591.0       35.6         5.0
Price Contingencies                 1472.0       804.7    2276.7          365818.9   177178.8   542997.7           32.6        39.0
__............. ................          .........................___................-.. .....
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   15597.2    8600.7   24197.9          1307497.6   696910.2  2004407.8            34.8      144.0
......................................................... ........................................  
Vslues Scated by 1000.0 - 10/29/1993  ItS41



128
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINNG AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA                Disbursement       Cumulative         Project      Country
Fiscal                   (US$ million)                   Profile      Profile
Year                                                     %            %
FY 1995
Sep. 30, 1994      0.0                0.0                0.0         0.0
Dec. 31, 1994      0.0                0.0                0.0          0.0
Mar. 31, 1995      0.5                0.5                2.0          2.0
Jun. 30, 1995      0.5                1.0                4.0          3.0
FY 1996
Sep. 30, 1995      0.5                1.5                7.0          5.0
Dec. 31, 1995      0.5                2.0                9.0          6.0
Mar. 31, 1996      0.8                2.8                13.0         10.0
Jun. 30, 1996      0.8                3.6                16.0         14.0
FY 1997
Sep. 30, 1996      0.9                4.5                20.0         18.0
Dec. 31, 1996      1.0                5.5                25.0         22.0
Mar. 31, 1997      1.0                6.5                30.0        26.0
Jun. 30, 1997      1.0                7.5                34.0         30.0
FY 1998
Sep. 30, 1997      1.1                8.6                39.0        36.0
Dec. 31, 1997      1.1                9.7                45.0        42.0
Mar. 31, 1998      1.0                10.7               49.0        46.0
Jun. 30, 1998      1.0                11.7               54.0         50.0
Y 1999
Sep. 30, 1998      1.0                12.7               58.0        55.0
Dec. 31, 1998      1.0                13.7               63.0        60.0
Mar. 31, 1999      0.8                14.5               66.0        69.0
Jun. 30, 1999      0.8                15.3               70.0         78.0
FY 2000
Sep. 30, 1999      0.9                16.2               74.0        82.0
Dec. 31, 1999      0.9                17.1               78.0        86.0
Mar. 31, 2000      0.9                18.0               83.0        90.0
Jun. 30, 2000      0.9                18.9               87.0         94.0
FY 2001
Sep. 30, 2000      0.8                19.7               90.0        96.0
Dec. 31, 2000      0.7                20.4               94.0        98.0
Mar. 31, 2001      0.7                21.1               98.0        99.0
Jun. 30, 2001      0.7                21.8               100.0        100.0
Effectiveness: July 1, 1994
Project Completion Date: June 30, 2001
Project Closing Date: December 31, 2001



129
ANNEX 14
P.ge 1 of 2
REPUBUC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT
Conractual Services
MAN-MONTH
(month)
A. Contracts with FirmInsstitutes
Single Package with one Firm
(a) Training Fund
Voucher System and Contract Scheme:
Training Fund Program Manager               12
Training Fund Program Manager              48
Training Design Specialist                  8
2 Training Design Specialist               48
4 Training Voucher Field Coordinators      192
Sub Total                       308
(b) Technologv Development
Technology Information Design Specialist    8
2 Technology Information Design Specialist  96
Technology Publications Specialist         48
Applied Research Grant Coordinator         48
3 Technology Marketing and Exhibitions
(i) Program Coordinator                48
(ii) Organizer                         48
(iii) Promoter                         48
Technology Study Tour Organizer             4
Technology Study Tour Organizer             12
Sub Total
(c) Infrastucture
Civil Engineer/Architect Partner            6
Senior Civil Engineer                       15
Architect                                   3
Quantity Surveyor - Engineer                3
2 Clerk of Works                           24
Junior Engineer                             9
2 Surveyor                                  4
Economist                                   6
Institutional Development Specialist        6
Jua Kali Liaison Officer                    6
Sub Total                       -2



130
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
(d) Monitorine and Evaluation
M and E Program Manager                     8
M and E Program Manager                    48
Training Needs Assessment Specialist        4
Training Needs Assessment Specialist       48
Technology Needs Assessment Specialist      4
Technology Needs Assessment Specialist     48
Information Systems Design Specialist       8
Information Systems Design Specialist      48
Statistician                               48
Computer Specialist                        48
Data Analyst                               48
Report Writer                              48
4 Enterprises Survey Specialists           48
2 Trade Test/Skills Upgrading Specialists  48
Sub Total                       504
(e) Staff Development
Organization & Staff Development Specialist  72
Organization & Staff Development Specialist  72
Training Materials and Methods Specialist   4
Training Specialist & Coordinator          12
Sub Total                      1lo
TOTAL (a) - (e)                1414
B. Individual Contracts
(a) Planning and Development Unit
Coordinator/Economist                      72
Procurement/Infrastructure                 48
Finance Officer                            72
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer          72
Training Planner/Coordinator               72
Technology planner/Coordinator             72
Management Information Systems Specialist  72
Sub Total                       480
(b) Jua Kali Federation
Training Officer/Coordinator               72
Technology Officer/Coordinator             72
Management Information Systems Specialist  72
Sub Total                        a
GRAND TOTAL A + B             2,110
Note: In order to build local consultant capacity, any award going to a foreign firm will
indicate that the foreign participant shall enter into a joint contact with a local partner.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRA ING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR JUA KALI
COURSE TITLE               NO./COURSES       TRAINEES                  COSTS                 TIMETABLE
PER    TOTAL         PER     TOTAL                YEAR
COURSE             COURSE                1   2   3   4   5   6
1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT           4              25       100       $6,250    $25,000  2   2   -   -   -   -
2. PROCUREMENT &                4              25       100       $6,250    $25,000  2   2   -   -   -   -
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
3. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT         4              25       t00       $6,250    $25,000  2   2    -   -   -   -
4. MONrfORING&                  4              25       100       $6,250    $25,000  1   1   1   1           _
EVALUATION
S. TRAINN  PROGRAM              4              25       100       $6,250    $25,000  2   2   -   -   -   -
MANAGEMENT
6. TECHNOLOGY                   4              25      100        $6,250    $25,000  2   2   -   -   -   -
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
7. ORGANIZATION&                10             25      250        $6,250    $62,500  1   1   2   2   2   2
DEVELOPMENT
S. LEADERSHIP&                  10             25      250        $6,250    $62,S00   1   1   2   2   2   2
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
DEVELOPMENT
9. TRAINING OF TRAINORS         2              25       S0        $6,250    $12,S50   1   1   _   _   _   _
10. TRAINlNO MATERIALS           2              25      50        $6,250     $12,500  1   1   -   _   _   _
DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                    jA I
TOTAL                 48                    1,200                 $300,000  15  IS   5   5   4   4
Notes: Courses have a durtion of S days at a cost of $Sr per tainee per day.



STAFF DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR MRTT&T
COURSE TITLE                 NO./COURSES        TRAINEES                    COSTS             T I M E T A B L E
PER    TOTAL          PER      TOTAL           YEAR
COURSE              COURSE                 1   2    3    4    5    6
1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT              3              25       75       $6,250     $18,750     1    1    1   -    -    -
2. PROCUREMENT &                  4               25       100      $6,250      25,000     1    2    1    -    -    -
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION                                                                                           f
3. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT            1              25        25      $6,250      $6,250     1   -    -    -
4. MONITORING & EVALUATI           3              25        75      $6.250      18,750     1   -    I   -    I   -
S. TRAINING PROGRAM                3              25        75      $6,250       18,750    1   -    I   -    I   -
MANAGEMENT
6. TECHNOLOGY PROORAM              3              25        75      $6,250      $18,750    2    1    -    -    -    -
MANAGEMENT
7. TRAINING NEEDS                  3              25        75      $6,250      $18,750    1    1    1    -    -    -
ASSESSMENT
8. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMEN            2              25        50      $6,250      $12,500    1    1   -    -    -    -
9. PLANNING & FINANCING            1              25        25      $6,250      $6,250     1    -    -    -    -    -
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISES
10. ORGANIZATION & DEVELO          2               25       50       $6,250     $12,500    -    I    I    -    _
11. LEADERSHIP                     2               25       50       $6,250     $12,500    -    I    I    -    -    -
12. TRAINORS TRAINING              4               25       100      $6,250     $25.000     1    1    1    1   _    _
13. TRAINING MATERIALS             3               25       75       $6,250     $18,750     1    1    1    -    -    -
DEVELOPMENT
14. EVALUATION & DEVELOP           5               25       125      $6.250     $31,250    -    I    I    I    I    I
OF SKILLS TRAINING &
TRADE TESTING PROGRAMS
TOTAL                   39                      1,100                $243,750    14  14   10   3    2    1
Note: Course have a duration of 5 days at a cost of $50 per trainee per day.
t.utA



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
994       1995       1996      1997                  999      2000       2001
Project Components
Policy Actions
-  Informal Sector Enabling Policy                     xxxxx     xxxxx
(implementation of Action Plan-
see Annex 3)
-  National Training Strategy                          xxxxx     xxxxx
(development of strategy-
see Annex 3, Action Plan)
Reviews
-  Annual Implementation Review Workshop                           x          x                   x          x
-  Mid-term Project Review                                                              x
-  Implementation Completion Report                                                                                               x        _
Triiog
-  Establishnent of Training Fund                       xxx
-  Preparation of procedures/guidelines for training systems  xx
-  Implementation of voucher scheme                      xx    xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx        XXXXXX   xxxxxxx
-   Implementation of training contract scheme           xx    xxxxxX   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxX   XXXXXXX
Technology
-  Technology information and innovation progran         xx
-  Drafting of plan for semi-annual exhibitions          xx
-  Preparation of guidelines/procedures for technology   xx        xx        xx         xx
study tours and selection criteria for participants
-  Technology information clearng function               xx    xxxxxxx    xxxxx



,sUA                            ______       1995       1996      a2z        1996                2000       200
- Technology marketing exhibitions                        xx    xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx
- Technology study tours to Africa, South and SE Asia            xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx
- Adaptive technology research grants                            xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx   xxxxxxx
Infrastructure
- sites to be developed at Mombasa & Kisumu (Location     x
Criteria)
- Secure sites to ensure ownership to MRTT&T & J.K.       x
Associations
- Agree tenure/lease arrangements                         x
- Appoint consultants to carry out surveys & process      x
documentation
- Prepare surveys, drawings, bid documents & obtain BY-          xxx
LAW approvals                                       xxx
- Tender (LCB procedures)                                         xxx
-  Prepare list of building materials, tender documents & go      xxx
to ICB                                                                                                                                      4h
- Appoint contractor & start on site                                x
- Construction period                                                       xxxxxx
xxxxx
- Prepare standard type drawing for operators sheds                xxx
-  Prepare procedures for rent & maintenance charges for                     xxxxx
first year. Agree site personnel cost recovery mechanisms
- Open operational and development Bank accounts                               x
-  Operators occupy sites                                                               xxxxxxx  xxx
xx        xxx
- Provide operators/JKA with letters of appointment                                    xxxxxxx   xxx
xx        xxx
kX



%on                               g1994      199S       IM         199a7      1998      1999      20000
-  Prepare analysis/report on suitability of implementation                                                   xxxx
method, cost effectiveness & comparison with other J.K
projects
-  Agree ideal format/scheme for future J.K. operations                                                        xxx
Iusttlnal Development
-  Formulation and implementation of MRTT&T & Jua Kali     xx       xxx       xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx
Associations/Federation staff development plan
-  Establishment/implementation of skill needs ass sment   xx      xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxx    xxxxxx
capacity at MRTT&T and Jua Kali Association
- Establishment/implementation of a training evaluation and  x     xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx
management information system
-  Support for the trade testing system                   xx       xxxxxx    xxxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxx
o #
weo



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROGRAM GOALS
Objecllely Veriflable
Narrative Summary                   Indicators                              Means of Verification                 Assumptions
1. To promote entreproneurial development 1. Progressive Improvement of the Jua  1. Monitoring Reports (semi and Annual)
In the private sector.               Kali sector which enhances its                                             1. The government continues to
participation In the economic development 2. Mid-term Project Evaluation Report  recognize the Importance of the
process.                                                                     informal sector In social &
3. Final Project Evaluation Report.    ecconomic development.
2. Improved skills & an expanded Informal
sector, with Increased employment    4. Report on No. ol Innovations       2. The Government remains a
opportunities & earnings through:     Commercialized                        catalyst & facilitator to
promote the Informal sector
S. Implementation Completion Report    leaving a major developmental
a) Improved product quallty & diversity.                                    role to the private sector.
6. Impact Evaluation Report
b) secure worksite & Improved
Infrastructures                                                          3. The Govemment continues to
Implement plans to promote
c) better marketing & Increased use of                                       Iralning & access to technology
appropriate technology                                                     opportunilies In the Informal             a
sector, especially for the poor.
3. Gradual Inclusion (graduation) of the
Informal sector Into the modern sector
by establishment of a legal &
contractual basis for Its unfettered
development.
2. To reduce constraints to employment   1. Capacity to sustain policy and project
creation and tncomne enhancement In the   Interventions.
micro and small enterprise (inlormal)
sector.                            2. Financial suslainabillty of training
Investments Is strengthened.
3. Overall efficiency, proftlability and
producivIty of jua kall operations
Improved.



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Narrative Summary                  Objectively Verifiable                Means of Verificatlon               Assumptions
Indicators
1. To develop and Implement         1. Various Institutional related to   1. Letter of Informal               1. Government policy-makers
policies enabing the                entry and operatlon,                  Sector Policy (LISP) and            supportive of Informal seclor
entrepreneurial environment.        e.g., licensing, registration,        Action Plan
laws & regulations removed or simplified.
a) Trade Ucensing Act &                EnactIons of:
the relevant local authority       2. Amended Licensing Act             2. Govemment & Jua Kall sector
by-laws amended.                                                         cooperate closely to ensure project
success.
b) Registration procedure            3. Simplified Registration Procedures.
simplied (to "one-stop,) &                                              3. Govemment & Jua Kall sectors
decentraSized to local lwel.                                              provide the necessary staff & other
resources
c) Appropriate bulding standards     4. Bullding Standards
for the Informal sector adopted.
d) MinistryofLand
simplifled the Registration         S. Land Registration
of taxatlon affecting
land ownrshIp.
e) Other outdated business
regulatory laws amended.           6. Vagrancy, Nuisance & Chiefs
authority acts repealed
2. Action plan based on an
assessment of the IndustrIal        7. Assessment Study of Training Levy,
Training Levy scheme prepared        Action Ptan document and Amended
by the Government.                   Industrial Training Act
3. Revised Trade Testing & Certification
system                              8. Trade Test Review Report
4. Long-term National Training        9. National Training Strategy Report.
_ _ _ _ ___  Strategy drafted by the MRTrAT.
'0-a



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OBJECTWiVES
Narraie Summary                     Oblectively Verifable                  Means of Verificatlon                 Assumptions
_________________________________ . .Indicators
2. To provkIb eq(altable access to skill    1. Skills upgrading for about 60,000  1. Mid-term Project Evaluation Report    1. Skill & technology needs will be
training and appropriate             Jua Kagi (mainly In the manufacturing                                        surveyed on a continuing basis
technology responsive to demands of  secto:                               2. Monitoring Reports
micro and small enterprses and                                                                                  2. Training providers (nstitutional
facilitate technoogical Innovation In  IL 20.000 management               3. Quarlerly Progress                   and enteprlse-based) will be swveyed
thesector.                           p. 40.000 technical                    Reports.                              and a directory updated regularly.
4. Supervision Missions
2. Technology study visits fr 270                                            3. The Jua Kalil FederationlAssociations
selected lnnovator/onleprenwrs lo    5. Final Prolect Evaluallon Report     and MRTT&T will be able to play
East & South Asia, Africa & Latin America                                   matchmaking role between trainees
6. Implementation Completion Report    and training proWder
3. Techniral and logstica assistance
Including advise and support faciities
related to training of smail enterprises.
4. Adequate number of women
4. Proportional re0resentatlon of women by                                    entrepreneurs In the manufacturing
region (8)                                                                  sector will be avallable
5. Technology Inlormation clearinghouse
operational
a. 1No. o patents In Jua Kali sector
____________________________ .Increased.                                          ._ ._.__                         _



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Narrative Summary                 ObJectively Verifiable               Means of Veritication               Assumptions
Indicators
3. To Impro4e thb operational and    1. Diversiiied & improved quality of  1. MR1T&T training standards
managerial capaciy of Institutions   about 200 public & private sector                                    1. Publlc and private training
& the quality of programs that support  training providers.           2. New trade tests                    providers agree to upgrade training
the sectors development.                                                                                    quality and expand their operations to
2. Training capability of trainers &  3. Improved pass rate in trade tests  the informal sector
training contractors upgraded.     by trade.
functions strengthened.                                              2. Organization, management arid
4. Relevant skill upgrading courses.  stafling of Jua Kall
3. Technical and managerial training and                                 Federatlon/Associations In place and
related technology Information and  5. No. of new production technotogies  operational
Innovation strengthened.           adopted.
4. Training & te hnoiogy assessment  6. Staff Development reports
functions sirengthened.
S. Stronger and better managed Jua Kall
assoclations and National Federatlon.
6. Effective implementation of the
Project by the MRiTT, Jua Kali
Associations & the Federation.
Wi
b4f
%0-



PROJECT MONiTORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS (COMPONENTS)
Objectively Verifiable                       Means of Verification   Assumptions
rIndicators
iMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1     2     3     4     5     6    TOTAL
1. TRAINING FUND COMPONENT
i. Voucher iDroormm
a)No. of Tralnees Awarded Voucher      300  1500  4200  7200  8400  8400 30.000   1. Monthly Status        1. 10% to 60% of vouchers
b) No. of Technical Training Voucher   200  1000  2800  4800  5600  5600 20,000      Reports                 awarded to women
c) No. of Management Training Voucher  100   500  1400  2400  2800  2800 10,000
d) No. of Technical Vouchers to Women   20   100   280   480   560    8  2,000    2. Quarterly Progress    2. Trainees responsible lor
e) No. of Management Vouchers to Women  10    50   140   240   280   280 1.000       Reports                 opportunity costs
3. Supervision Missionr    a Average cost per voucher.
Reports                a. Management - $150
b. Technical - $200
4. Semi and Annual     (including Trade Tesilng)
Reports
4. Typical skill
upgrading course Is
grouped based (10-15
trainees); management
course - 15-25 trainees
5. Average duration of
course Is 6 weeks (30
eveninas) for
management; 2 weeks
(Intensive) for skill
upgrading.
2. TRAINING CONTRACT SCHEME                                                                                  Contract Scheme
a) No. of training Contracts awarded    50  100   250   300   300   500    1500  1. Monthly Status Reports  1. Average cost per
b) No. of contracts for enterprlse based  25   50   125   150   150  250    750                              contract is $3,600
skill upgrading.                                                                  2. Quarterly Progress Report
c) No. of contracts for public training  17    33    83   100   100   167   500                            2. Single contract does
Institutions.                                                                     3. Supervision missions  not exceed $10,000.
d) No. of contracts for private tralning  8    17    42    50    50    83    250
Institutions                                                                      4. Semi and Annual      3. Contract may include
.. fi                                                                               Monitoring Report       cost of training
e) No. of enrolees under training      750 1,500 3,750 4,500 4,500 7,500  22,500                             related equipment &
contract scheme                                                                                             m rnaterials.                  ,



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS (COMPONENTS)
NuratiSummr                             ObJectveiy Verifiable                         Means of Verilication   Assumptions
Indlcators
IMPLEMENTATiON SCHEDULE
1     2     3  | 4      5      6    TOTAL
I) No. of Women enrotees unider contract  750   150   375   450   450   750    2,250                        4. Cost contribution
scheme                                                                                                        orom participants In
terms of opportunity
g) No. of enrolees under enterprise     375   750 1.875 2,250 2,250 3,750   11t250                            cost I.e. Income or
based contracts                                                                                             salary plus training fees
h) No. of enrolees under public training  255   495  1,245 1,40C 1t500 2,505    7,500                       5. Average number of
contracts                                                                                                    enrolees  15
I) No. of enroloes under private training  125   255   630   750   750 1,245    3,750                        6. Women enrolees is 10%
contracts                                                                                                    of total
3. CONTRACT COST SHARING SCHEME                                                                               1. Cost-contribution from
a)Total Amount of Contracts Awarded ($ mmlo  0.18  0.36  0.90  1.08  1.08  1.80  5.40 1. Financial Reports    training providers In
b)Total Amount of Training Fees collected (10 0.018  0.036  0.09 0.108 0.108  0.18  0.54 2. Monitoring Reports  term of existing facilities,
staff & other resources_
II. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND                                                                                 s
PILOT INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
1. TECHNOLOGY INFORMAlION &                                                           1. Monthly Status Reports  Technology Innovation
INNOVATiON PROGRAM                                                                                           1. Jua Kali Innovators
a) No. of technology & marketing        2     2      2     2     2      2      12   2. Quarterly Progress Report participate in marketing
exhibitions hold                                                                                             exhibition
3. Supervision Mission
b) No. of booths/participating enterirlseb  100   100   150   150   200   200    900                         2. Adequate number of
4. Semi and Annual       women innovators
c) No. of booths allocated to women     10    10    15    15    20    20       90     Monitoring Reports      interested in and
Innovators                                                                                                   participate in exhibitions
d) Information clearinghouse on now   ----- ----- __ __  __ __ _ongoing                                      3. Qualified staff
products & production technologies at                                                                        available for Information
CRT operatlonal                                                                                              clearinghouse
e) Pubilcatlots/Jua Kall magazine       4     4      4     4     4     0       20    _                       _
.,  -4



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS(COMPONENTS)
Narrative Summary                       ObjectivelyVeriflable                          Means ol Verification   Assumptions
Indicators
e~~~~~                                                                           _
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1     2     3      4     5     6    TOTAL
4. Jua Kali innovators
i) Applied technology research grants                                                                          apply for research grants
awarded (total No.)                    1     4      6     12    22    30      75
1) Stage I grants                      1     4      5     10    15    15      60
2) Stage 11 grants                     -     -      1     2      7    15      25    1. Monthly Status Reports  Study Visits
1. 270 technology study-
g) Amount of technology grants         3.000 12.000 25,000 50,000 5.000 195.00 400,000  2. Quarterly Progress Report visis for selected
innovatorsentrepreneurs
2. TECHNOLOGY STUDY TOURS                                                              3. Supervision Mission    lasting upto 30 days
a. No. of Participanis In study visits  9      9    45    63    72    72       270
b. No. of Women Participants In study Tours  1  1    5      7     8      8      30   4. Semi & Annual MonitorIng 2. Contractor for
Reports                 ornanizina study tours
3. INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                    selected.
a) ietter of Allotment to Jua Kal.                                                                            Innrastrurturo
Assocation from Lands Coinmissloner                                                                          1. Jua Ka<d entrepreneurs
willing to pay for
b) Work places created on sites (totao   -     240   420   _      _     _        660                           infrastructure sites and
1) Mombasa                             -     120  210    -      _      _        330                           other senice fees.
2. Klsumu                              -     120   210   _       _     _        330
2. Technical assistance
c) iNo. of workers accommodated (total no.)  -    1.440 2,520   -  -     -     3,960                            provided to Jua Kali
1) Mombasa                                                                                                    Organizations on time.
2) Kisumu
1. Contractor's reports  3. Jua Kali owners and
d) No. of Ju Xall  granted ownership of  -      36    63   -      -      -         99                           operators witting to
workdltes (15%)                                                                     2. Field visits           provIde necesa
counterpart labor.
e) No. of Jua Kali under leasehold (85%)  -    204   357   -      -      -        561 3. Seml & annual monitoring
reports               4. Construction materials
I) Repayments colected on tenant purchase  --   --  ----- -- -   -- ----- ongolng                               are procured and delivered
basis                                                                                                         to sites on lime.
9. Fees & sevices charges colected  - ---   ----- ----- ----- --- -----   ongoing
h. Rentals collected under leasehold   ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ongolng                                                           o
arranfgmets 



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS (COMPONENTS)
Natra tisummarv                         Oblectively Verifiabxe                         Means of Verification   Assumptions
Indicators
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1     2     3      4     5     6    TOTAL
i) No. of workplaces with lndaMual water,  -    240  420    -    -      -        660
& electrical connectin power
D Public toletsprokvied (no.)                  8      8                         16
k) Drainage provkied (m)               ----- ----- ----- ---- - -      - --- - - ongoing
) Jua Kall office set up                 _     2      2     -     -      -       4
m).StoreaExhlbltlon centers set up       _     2      2     -     -      -       4
n) Manual labour provided by members for   ----- ----- ----- -----   ----- ----- ongodng
construction of sheds (man-days)
o) BuidIing materials proided by he project.    -  .5   .5  -     _      _     1.0 mN
(US$ million)
M. INSTITUTIONAL STFENGTHENING
COMPONENT
1. STAFF DEVELOPMENT                                                                                            Staff D3velooment
1. Staff development reports 1. Jua Kali
a) No. of courses for Jua Kail hnstitution  15    15  5    5     4      4       48                             FederationrAssoclatlons
2. Monthly status reports  & MRTT&T officials and
b) No. of JuaiKall parlcilpants        375   375   125   125   100   1D0    1.200                              stafl are interested in
3. Quarterly progress reports  tralning programs.
c) No. of cours63 for MRTT&T Olqlalsi     t1   12    10    3     2      1      39
4. Supervision missions    2. Enough women
d) No. of MRTT&T participants          350   350   250    75    50    25    1.100                              particioants are
5. Semi and annual       avallable.
e) No. of women Jua Kali participants (10%)   37    37    13    13    10    10  120    monitoring reports
3. Staff Development
) No. of women MRTT&T participants (10%)   35    35    25  7      5     3      110                             Coordinators are hired
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  -   -   -   -   -   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   on    tlm e.



PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS (COMPONENTS)
Narrative Summary                        Objectively Verifiable                           Means of Verification    Assumptions
Indicators
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1     2      3     4      5     6    TOTAL
2. MONITORING & EVALUATION                                                                                         Monitoring & Evaluation
a) Skills and technology needs assessmnent  -.----  ----- _  _ _  __           Ongoing 1. Contractor report.    1. Technical assistance Is
operational at PDUIJKA/JKE                                                                                      available
b) Assessment of Traning Levy conducted   ----                                         2. Monitoring reports.   2. PDU Is organized and
stalled with qualilied
c) Assessment or Trade Testing and     -----                                           3. Directory               people
Certificatlon system done
4. Data base             3. Training lnstillullons
d) Amended Industrdal Training Act     -----                                                                      (Including enterprises)
5. Survey reports         cooperate In preparation
e) Computerized Monitoring Systerm     ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----  Ongoing                                of Directories and Data
operational                                                                                                     bases.
I) Project Impact Evaluation conducted                    -----        -----
g) Technology monitoring through       ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----  Ongoing
Trade fairs & exhibitions.
Training, Research & development
h) Improved trade-testing system In pice ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----  Ongoing
f) Dlrectory of tralning Institutlons    1      1     1      1     1      1       6
(Including enterprises) published
DData base on tralnlng outputs (ciursds &  1    1     1      1      1     1       6
trainees) published
k) Data bas on scheduled proarams        1      1     1      1     1      1       6
gathered & pubUlshed
OData base on the re4iqfm sof            1      1     1      1     1      1       6
Jua Kall assocIation publshed
im) Training evaluation surveys conducted.  1    1     1      1     1      1       6



145                                AM3ErY 18
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRA1ING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require 15 weeks for the first year. 12 staff-weeks per year during the next
three project years, and 8 staff-weeks per year thereafter). The supervision of each component, including
review of procurement decisions and of progress reports, will be carried out by the task manager and
procurement specialist of the sector concerned under the responsibility of AF2PH.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision:
a.    Progress Reports are to be submitted in mid-February and mid-August each year by the
Project Coordinator at MRTT&T/DAT/ATU which will coordinate report preparation by the
various project agencies.
b.    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator at
MRTT&T/DAT/ATU. An implementation review workshop with the participation of the
various project agencies will be held in mid-February every year, convened by the
Coordinator.
c.    The Coordinator will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
mission, dnd for providing information required by missions. Missions will normally be
accompanied by senior staff of MRTT&T. MRTT&T will be informed in advance which
project components will be covered during a mission, and representatives from the
implementing units of this Ministry will normally accompany the mission.
d.    Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meeting3 will normally be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MRTT&T, with the participation of the Project Coordinator, and the
heads of the project implementing units of MRTT&T and the participating agencies.



146
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
BANK SUPERVISjON iNPUV   INTO KEY ACTlVITIES
Approx.           Activities                Expected Skill Requirements         Staff Input
Dates                                                                         (Staff-weeks)
8/94     Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  12
(Project Launch Workshop)    development/capacity building, and
Procurement, Disbursement.
2/95     Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  8
(Annual hnplementation      development/capacity building, and
Review Workshop)            Procurement, Disbursement.
8/95     Supervision Mission         Education, Implementation Specialist       4
2/96     Supervision Mission         Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  8
(Annual Implementation      development/capacity building, and
Review Workshop)            Procurement, Disbursement.
8/96     Supervision Mission         Education, Implementation Specialist.       4
2/97     Mid-term Project Review     Education, Financial analysis, Institutional  8
development/capacity building and
Procurement, Disbursement.
8/97     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
2/98     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
8/98     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
(Annual Implementation
Review Workshop)
2/99     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
8/99     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
(Annual Implementation
Review Workshop)                                                  _
2/20     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
8/20     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
2/21     Supervision Mission         Education and Implementation Specialist     4
8/21     Supervision Mission          Education, Financial analysis/economics,   5
(Preparation work for the   Institutional development/capacity
Implementation Completion   building, and Procurement,
Report - ICR)                Disbursement.                        _



147
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPACT EVALUATION
1.01   Objecives and tasks. The objective of the evaluation is to assess the impact of project
interventions on the participants in terms of employment, earnings, and productivity. Analysis will focus
on evaluating efficiency and cost-effectiveness of three different components of the project: training,
technology, and infrastructure. It would also aim to compare the relative effectiveness of different types
of interventions in each component: (a) different implementation modalities of training and technology
components -voucher system and contract scheme for the training component and study tours, research
grants, exhibitions, and products catalogues for the technology component; and (b) alternative types of
land tenure -individual ownership, collective ownership through Jua Kali Associations and trusts,
respectively. The analyses should be designed to yield concrete recommendations for choosing the
appropriate models for the development of the informal sector in future.
Evaluation of Training Fund
1.02   Training fund evaluation is intended to evaluate the impact of the micro- and small enterprise
training fund component on trainees' income/wage and productivity. Design of the evaluation of
individual participants in the training fund should take into account the following considerations:
a.    A range of employment outcomes would be evaluated for individuals. These would
nclude (but not limited to) monthly income and hourly wage, hours worked per week
and job stability.
b.    To obtain unbiased assessment, a control group would be used in the evaluation.
Selection bias in measurement of the impacts of the project arises because the participants
are not a random sample of the informal sector entrepreneurs. This is due to the fact that
the trainees are selected on a competitive basis in the project. An effort would be made
to address the selection bias issue in the analyses.
c.    Three different methods would be adopted to evaluate the outcomes of individual
participants. One method is to compare post-training outcomes to pre-training measures
of the same individual or that of a control group of individuals in the informal sector.
This method recognizes the individuals being heterogeneous in terms of unmeasured
ability, tastes and motivation. A second method is to use a control group with similar
attributes to the trainee population. This technique uses program selection criteria to
identify an eligible group of non-trainees. A third method is to correct for the sample
selection using a two-stage econometric technique in which outcomes are measured
conditional upon selection into training. To the extent possible, the sensitivity of results
using the various methods should be compared.
d.    A methodology to assess the cost-effectiveness of the taining program would be
developed. Alternative modalities and delivery systems in each type of intervention
would also be evaluated to assess their relative efficacy. This approach would allow one
to tell whether outcomes vary on the basis of the participant's characteristics and type of



148
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
intervention.
Evaluaton of Technology and Infastructure
1.03   This analysis would aim to evaluate the impacts of technology and infrastructure on the
productivity and employment generation of the small and micro-enterprises. The evaluation (particularly
of infrastructure component) would consider the following points:
a.    The impact of the project would be measured by comparing outcomes against the pre-
intervention measures of the same enterprise or that of a control group of enterprises.
The alternative measures would be compared to see if they lead to different conclusions.
b.    Cost-effectiveness would be assessed for the three different interventions in the
infrastructure component (two in this project and one in the GTZ/Belgium project):
individual ownership, collective ownership through Jua Kali Association and trustee,
respectively. Cost-benefit estimates can be sensitive to assumptions about both benefits
and costs, and accordingly, would be assessed for a variety of assumptions. It would be
ensured that a methodology to assess the process -the construction, distribution, and
management of the infrastructure- would be developed.
c.    Both quantitative and qualitative outcomes would be measured. The quantitative impacts
would include the increased production (or sales), employment, labor productivity. The
qualitative impacts would include better product quality, systems for accounting and
identification of new products and markets.
sureys
1.04   The evaluation described above requires the development of data bases. Two different types of
surveys will be designed for individual informal sector workers/entrepreneurs and enterprises. These
surveys include retrospective surveys and control group survey.
1.05   Survey of Individual Entrepreneurs. This survey would elicit the infornation on the
individual/household characteristics, work history and the characteristics of the enterprises which the
respondent owns or is an employee of. These data will be collected for both pre- and post-intervention.
More specifically, the following variables will be included:
a.    Worker Characteristics: These include age, gender, marital status (and dependents),
years of educational attaimment, highest level of education completed (date), skills and
vocational trainmg including the types of training in this project.
b.    Work History: These include data on work experience, attributes of the current employer
such as indubtry and firm size, years of tenure, occupation, and compensation (wages,
non-wage benefits and bonuses).
c.    Characteristics of Enterprises: These would include size, date established, sources of



149
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
financing, type of building, accounting system, equipment, sales and profit, inventories,
breakdown of expenditures, suppliers, clients, work schedules, characteristics of paid
workers and of unpaid workers, including prior experience and training.
1.06   Samples of the project participants would be collected at least one year after the completion of
the program. A retrospective survey of participants would be conducted in 1995 for the 1994 cohort of
participants. The 1995 survey would be administered to a sample of the participants that is representative
of both training modalities; it would cover at least 10% of the men and women who comrleted training
in 1994 (about 600 individuals). This survey would limit coverage of the post-intervention period to
about one year. While it would be desirable to monitor the participants over a longer period, it is
difficult and costly in practice. A second survey would be fielded in 1996 to a similar sample size of the
participants completing the program in 1995. A third survey, possibly modified to address specific issues
that may arise during the implementation, could be fielded in 1998.
1.07   Survey of Nicro/Small Enterprises.  This survey would elicit basic information on
employment, earnings, training, financing and cost patterns in small- and microenterprises (besides
detailed information on their participation in the project). More specifically, these would include size,
date established, sources of financing, type of building, accounting system, equipment, sales and profit,
inventories, breakdown of expenditures, suppliers, clients, work schedules, characteristics of paid workers
and of unpaid workers, including prior experience and training. The survey will be conducted in a
manner similar to the retrospective survey for informal sector individuals as presented above.
1.08   Control Group Survey. A control group would be developed among informal sector enterprises
and entrepreneurs which have the characteristics comparable to those participating in the project which
are covered in the two surveys. In principle, such a group may be selected from the informal sector
entrepreneurs in the annual Small-Scale Business Enterprises Survey (SSBES) conducted by the CBS.
The variables similar to these surveys would be collected for a control group. The modifications of the
questions in the SSBES would thus be required to make two surveys comparable, thereby calling for the
coordination with the CBS.



150
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KENiA
MICRO-AND SMALL ENTERPRISE TRAINING AND TEClHNOLOGY PROJECT
List of Document in Project File
Aboagye, A. A. (1986). Informal Sector Employment in Kenya. Addis Ababa: ILO/JASPA.
Aleke-Dondo, C. and H. Oloo Oketch (December 1992). The Graduation Potential of the Jua Kali
Sector. Paper prepared for proposed JUKED Project.
Coughlin, Peter and Gerrishon K. lldara, ed. (1988). Industrialization in Kenva. In Search of a Strategy.
Heinemarm Kenya, Nairobi.
DANIDA (1990). Technical and Vocational Training Programs in Kenya. Evaluation Report.
Digolo, Obonyo (1988). Education and Training in Jua Kali Sector: A Challenge to Urban Planners.
Urban Center for Research, Nairobi.
Freebaim, John and Pete G. Odeng (1992). Pre-feasibility Study for the Establishment of an APEX
Credit Line in Kenya. Carried out for United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
Gaminger, Kim (1991). Education, Training and the Informal Sector In Kenya. Draft Annex (I)
prepared for the proposed Jua Kali project.
Gichira, Robert (1991). An analysis of the laws and regulations affecting the development of the informal
sector in Kenya, Research paper No. 5, Nairobi, Kenya Rural Enterprise Programme.
Global Economic Prospects and the Developing Countries, 1992. World Bank internal paper,
International Economics Department, Feb. 28, 1992.
GTZ (Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (in collaboration with the World Bank). Kenya
Private Sector Strategy Study. February 1992.
House, William J., G. K. Ikihara, and D. Mccormick (1993). Urban Self-Employment in Kenya:
Panacea or Viable Strategy? World Development, Vol. 21, No. 7. ppl205-1223.
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). The Guide to Business Training for Jua Kali Entrepreneurs (1992).
Kilele, A.K.M. and Clive Sinclair (May 1991). Economic Aspects of the Informal Sector in Kenya. A
draft working paper prepared for the proposed Jua Kali project.
King, Kenneth and Charles Abuodha (1992). Change and Development in Kenya's Informal Jua Kali
Sector 1972-1991. Institute for Development Studies. University of Nairobi.
Kogo, Kadzo. Gender Issues in the Informal Jua Kali Sector. Draft PPF Study, proposed JUKED Prcject.
Livingstone, Ian (1991). A Reassessment of Kenya's Rural and Urban Informal Sector, World



151
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
Development, Vol. 19, No. 6, pp. 651-670.
Mikkelsen, Britha (1987). Formation of an Industrial Labor Force in Kenya. Exneriences of Labor
Training in the Metal Manufacturing Industries. Institute for Development Studies. University of
Nairobi.
Republic of Kenya Ministry of Research, Technical Training, and Technology (MRTT&T). Jua Kali
Enterprise Development Project (JUKED). ZOPP Workshop, Mombasa, 18-22 January, 1993.
Republic of Kenya Ministry of Research, Technical Training, and Technology (MRTT&T). Jua Kali
Enterprise Development Project (JUKED). Project Proposal Document (January 1993).
Republic of Kenya: Sessional Paper No.2 of 1992 on "Small Enterprise and Jua Kali Development in
Kenya."
Republic of Kenya: Sessional Paper No 1 of 1992 on "Development and Employment in Kenya."
Republic of Kenya: Report of the Presidential Committee on Employment (1991): "Development and
Employment in Kenya: A Strategy for the Transformation of the Economy." Philip Ndegwa, Chairman.
Republic of Kenya: The National Employment Bureau Programme of Work 1989-1993 and Establishment
Proposal. Ministry of Manpower Development and Employment (1989).
Republic of Kenya: National Manpower Survey 1986-1988. An Overview Report (1989). Ministry of
Manpower Development and Employment.
Republic of Kenya: Industrial Training - Towards Year 2000. DIT Strategy Paper (1991).
Republic of Kenya: The Industrial Training Act, Chapter 237. (1979) Director Industrial Training.
Republic of Kenya: Background Paper to the Training Needs Assessment Workshops (1991). Ministry
of Manpower Development and Employment, Manpower Development Department.
Republic of Kenya: Report of the Presidential Working Party on Education and Manpower Training for
the Next Decade and Beyond (1988). James Mwangi Kamunge, Chairman.
World Bank (1993). Kenya: Increasing Employment Growth For Poverty Alleviation. Green cover.
Country Economic Memorandum. Report No. 11650-KE.
World Bank (1992). Tapping Kenya's Potential: A Private Sector Development Strategy. Green cover.
Sector Report. Report No. 11438-KE.
World Bank (1991). Kenya Human Resources: Improving Quality and Access. Sector Report.
World Bank (1988). Employment and Growth in Kenya. Country Economic Memorandum.
World Bank (1991). Vocational and Technical Education and Training. A World Bank Policy Paper.



152
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
World Bank (1986). Vocational Eaucation and Training. A Review of World Bank Investment. John
Middleton and Terry Demsky.
Yambo, Mauri (1988). Reconnaissance of Jua Kali Support Activities in Kenya. Report commissioned
by DANIDA.
Yambo, Mauri (1991). Training Needs Assessment of the Kenyan Informal Sector. Report to KIE,
KREP, KIM, and MTTAT.
Office Memoranda:
- Draft Concept Paper:                  August 24, 1990
- Identification Mission Aide Memoire:  October 20, 1992
- Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire:   February 24, 1993
- Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire:       June I1, 1993
- Post-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire:    October 2, 1993



S U D A N
z.,' (.Sts K~~~~~~KE N Y A
/                                                                      N ttet -  E   T   H   I 0   P  I A
TURKANA                                                                                              MANDERA
R        F    T                              A4MARSAS;
ix   \           / X                   (~~~Mobt                                             > !
)'--    E  A       T  E  R   N<N                     AJIR
UGANDA
I SOMALIA
;-t  .  l    ;.  .          \ P-A  .3'                      f  ~N    OJ     T  H          i
5EAGNS   SL                                AMBVRU       /     %\                               
_ r E                R N *\
N ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     O ,Y lf4  IQ                      Kb. 
F                                   r   ER  N
v   A        R * L s '.
RtFT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                         VALL INtA 74 
i P   ii A                 ~~~~~~A F R I C A                    '                                         r oolc  rih
,.t                     I              .                          /               e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" Fw.imo Wz
l     -ss         . ,' .,r-RJX                Til,,,dG,  -ftllh
|                               iFlL ~~~-.oT   V0Z   4    i'  10  160                                            _ <R 11Y
3 3i- Tbrw^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W      ............lr; _



