                                     Documentof
                                  The WorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.: 32657




               PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                        KENYA

                        MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISE
                    TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGYPROJECT

                                  (CREDIT 2596-KE)


                                     JUNE 24,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CurrencyEquivalents
Currency Unit =Kenya Shilling(Ksh)

Appraisal (May 1993)                                          Ksh62.16
                                                              Ksh63.59
                                          US$l.oo
                                          US$1.oo
                                          U S $ l.oo
Interveningyears (annual avg.)
Completion (December 2002)                                    Ksh79.54

Abbreviations andAcronyms

A A S                             Allocating Agents
BDS                               Business Development Services
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
CBS                               CentralBureauo f Statistics
DATO                              District Applied Technology Officer
DCA                               Development Credit Agreement
ICR                               ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA                               InternationalDevelopment Agency
JKA                               Jua Kali Association
JKE                               JuaKali Entrepreneur
KIRDI                             Kenya IndustrialResearch and Development Institute
M & E                             Monitoring and Evaluation
MLHRD                             MinistryofLabor andHumanResourceDevelopment
MRTT&T                            Ministry o fResearch, Technical Training, and Technology
MSE                               Micro and Small Enterprise
MSETTP                            Micro and Small Enterprise Training and Technology
                                  Project
NATTET                            NationalAssociation for Technology Transfer and
                                  Entrepreneurial Training
NFJKA                             NationalFederation o f Jua Kali Associations
NGO                               Non-GovernmentalOrganization
OED                               Operations EvaluationDepartment
P A T 0                           ProvincialApplied Technology Officer
PCO                               Project Coordination Office
PPAR                              Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG                               Quality Assurance Group
SACCO                             Savings and Credit Cooperative
TB                                Training Beneficiary
TP                                Training Provider
VTP                               Voucher Training Program

FiscalYear

Government:              April 1- March31


 Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr.Ajay Cbhibber
 Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment        : Mr.R.KylePeters
 Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation         : Mr.Alain Barbu
 Task Manager                                            : Ms.Kris Hallberg

                                                               i


I   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.                       I
  About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
  purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
  producingthe expected results,and second,to help developimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
  the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OEDannually assesses about 25 percentof
  the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are
  innovative, large, or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;thosefor which
  ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
  important lessons. The projects, topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
  studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
  Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
  the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
  validate and augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
  OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
  sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
  Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.orgloed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       fficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project), Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extentto which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
 achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents



Preface ..............................................................................................................................          vii

Summary    ...........................................................................................................................            ix

1 EvaluationObjectives and Methodology
 .                                                                       ...................................................................       1

2 Background
 .                     ..................................................................................................................          1

3 ProjectObjectives.Design.andImplementation
 .                                                                                      ......................................................     3

4 Achievement of Outcomes
 .                                             ...........................................................................................         7

5 FinancialManagement
 .                                        ..............................................................................................         16

6 Ratings
 .            ........................................................................................................................           19

7 Lessons
 .            ........................................................................................................................           21

Annex A  .BasicDataSheet.............................................................................................                            25

Annex B BorrowerComments
         .                                        ......................................................................................         29

Annex C Output Targets andAchievements
         .                                                                 ...............................................................       31

Annex D  . OED        Survey of TrainingBeneficiariesand TrainingProviders                                                         ...............33

Boxes

                                                                                                                                                  9
Box 2: CaseStudies of TrainingProviders......................................................
Box 1: Case Studies ofTrainees...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                 10
Box 3: ImpactofDelayedPaymentson Training Providers.................................                                                             18

Tables

Table 1.Ratings for Project Objectives............................................................................                              20


Figures

Figure 1: Incidenceofthe Voucher Subsidy....................................................................                                    11
Figure2: TrainingFeesBefore. During. andAfter the VTP ...........................................                                               14

                                                    iv


 Annexes

 Annex A Basic Data Sheet.........................................................................  .................... 25
 Annex B. Borrower Comments........................................................................................
           .                                                                                       :
                                                                                                                         29
 Annex C Output Targets and Achievements ..................................................................              31
 Annex D OED Survey ofTraining Beneficiaries and Training Providers .....................
           ..                                                                                                            33




This reportwas preparedbyMs Kris Hallberg. who assessedthe projectin February-April2005 The
                            .                                                                                   .
reDort was editedbyMr WilliamHurlbut. and Ms RoseGachinaprovidedadministrative support.
                      .                        .

                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

                                  /CR*                ICR Review*                   PPAR
Outcome                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory         ModeratelyUnsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Likely                  Likely                    Unlikely
Institutional                     High                     High                     Modest
DevelopmentImpact
Bank Performance               Satisfactory         HighlySatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Borrower                      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
Performance

*The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationbythe responsibleoperational divisionof
the Bank.The ICR Review is an intermediateOperations Evaluation Department (OED) productthat seeks
to independentlyverify the findingsof the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible

Project                          Task Manager/Leader        Division Chief/      Country Director
                                                           Sector Director
 Appraisal                            Nat Colletta           Jacob Maas           Francis Colaco
 Completion                          Ivan Rossignol           Demba Ba             Makhtar Diop


                                             vii


Preface

       The Kenya Micro and Small EnterpriseTraining and Technology Project (Credit
2596-KE) inthe amount o f SDR 15.7 ($21.83 million equivalent) was approved on April
5, 1994, and made effective onNovember 28, 1994. SDR 6.19 million($7.83 million)
was cancelled. The credit closed on December 31,2002 after a one-year extension. The
credit disbursed84 percent of the amount net of the cancellation, and the final
disbursement was made on December 10,2003.

       This report i s baseduponreviews o f the ImplementationCompletion Report, the
StaffAppraisal Report, legal documents, project files, discussions with Bank staff
involvedwith the project, and interviewswith relevant stakeholders inKenya
(government officials, NGOs, other donors, andproject beneficiaries).

       An OEDmissionto Kenyatook place inFebruary-March2005 andconducted an
extensive survey o f trainers andtrainees that participatedinthe project's Voucher
Training Program. Nearly 300trainers andtrainees were interviewedinfive regions of
the country: Greater Nairobi, Greater Kisumu, Machakos, MombasaiMalindi, and
Nakuru. The survey was carried out with the assistanceofateam oflocalconsultants.
The mission appreciated the courtesies and logisticalsupport givenbythe Ministry of
Labor andHumanResource Development.

       The evaluation was undertaken to provide input to OED's upcomingreview o f the
World Bank's support for small- andmedium-scale enterprises. It also provides lessons
for govemments and donors attempting to develop markets for business development
services for small enterprises. Following standardprocedures, a copy o fthe draft PPAR
was sent to relevant government officials for their review and comments. Their
comments are attached inAnnex B.


                                               ix


 Summary

 The Micro and Small EnterpriseTraining andTechnologyProject (MSETTP), supported bya
 $21.8 million IDA credit, was approved in 1994and closed in2002. The long term objective o f the
 project was to enhance the entrepreneurial development o fthe private sector andincrease
 employmentandincomes among informal-sector (Jua Kali) micro- and small-scale enterprises
 (MSEs). Specific objectives were to (i) develop and implement policies to establish an enabling
 environmentfor entrepreneurial development; (ii)    provide access to skill training and appropriate
 technology for MSEs, and facilitate technological innovation inthe MSE sector; and (iii)    improve
 the operational andmanagerial capacity o f institutions andprograms that support the sector's
 development. The project objectives were highlyrelevant to Kenya's development needs at the
 time.

The key component o fthe project was a voucher training program (VTP) to subsidize skills and
management training to Jua Kali workers inthe manufacturing sector, and develop the private
market for training services. Other components focused on upgradingthe capacity o ftraining
providers, increasingthe availability ofmicrofinance, buildinginstitutional capacity o f the
implementing agency, improving policy analysis andmonitoring and evaluation, and constructing
work sites for Jua Kalibusinesses.

Project implementation got offto a slow start. The original designo fthe project was vague,
hampered by an inadequate understanding of the constraints to the development of training markets
and insufficient clarity as to the'management structure o fthe project. These issueshadbeenraised
earlier by a group o fbilateral donors inKenya that opposed the project before it was presented to
the Board. Following a mid-termreviewmission inmid-1997, some project components were
revised and output targets reduced. The centerpiece of the restructured project was the VTP, an
innovative approach that attempted to buildmarkets for business development services to serve the
needs of MSEs.

Implementationaccelerated after project restructuring. However, the VTP's large subsidy, multiple
procedures, andweak oversight created an environment conducive to abuse. Allegations of
corruption led some qualified trainers to decide not to participate inthe program, and created a
reputational issue for the Bank. Delays inobtaining voucher reimbursements had a significant
impact on many trainers who were forced to take out loans to keep their businessgoing or who
spent time andmoney traveling to Nairobi to seek payment.

An impressivenumber of MSEs received training underthe VTP -- nearly 35,000, compared to the
officially revisedtarget o f 32,000. However, their ability to take advantage o fnewly-acquired skills
was limitedby infrastructure and financing constraints that could havebeenreduced ifthe other
components hadbeen successfully implemented. The long-run impact o fthe project on markets for
training services appears to have beenmodest, as many trainers returned to their previous activities
once the VTP subsidiesended. The efficiency o f the project was negligible due to implementation
delays andthe excess subsidyprovided under the VTP. Taking into account relevance, efficacy,
and efficiency, the project Outcome i s ratedModerately Unsatisfactory.

The InstitutionalDevelopment Impact o fthe project i s rated as Modest. The project put inplace
a monitoring and evaluation system that was well ahead o fmost similar projects at the time, and
helpedthe Governmentprepare plans andregulations for the MSEsector. However, the project's

                                                X



contributionto improved governance inthe organizations involved inthe project (government
ministries and Jua Kali organizations) was minimal. Indeed, the project was plaguedby allegations
o f corruption, underminingthe reputation o fthese organizations.

For many o fthe trainees that benefited from the project, the sustainability ofbenefits i s likely.
However, since the market development impact o fthe project on markets for trainingservices was
modest, the sustainability o f changes intraining markets i s unlikely. On balance, the Sustainability
o fthe project i s ratedUnlikely.

Poor quality at entry had major implications for project implementationand effectiveness. Bank
staffmade a very strong effort to refocus the project in 1997, and tested an innovative approach to
buildingmarkets for business development services that was emerginginthe donor community.
Althoughproject supervision improved, it failed to raise project outcome into the satisfactory
range. Therefore, the Bank'sperformance must be said to have beenmoderately unsatisfactory.
Since that rating category is not available at this time, Bank Performanceis rated
Unsatisfactory.

The project sufferedfrom shiftingmanagement among four Ministries, attempted fraud, alleged
corruption associated with the allocation and reimbursement o fvouchers to VTP participants, and
delays inpayments to trainers andthe intermediary allocating agents. The Government's failure to
fulfill all conditions relatingto the enabling environment was the main factor that ledto the
cancellation ofthe infrastructurecomponent and the only partial implementation o fthe technology
component. For these reasons, Borrower Performance i s also ratedUnsatisfactory.

Amongthe lessons learned from the project are:

    Understand markets and institutions before designing the intervention. The nature o f
    market failures (ifany) should guide the decision whether to intervene at all, and ifso, whether
    to intervene on the supply side or the demand side o fthe market. Implementationcan be
    problematic because o f institutional and governance issues. Market and institutional
    assessments shouldbe done prior to project designto identifythese issues.
    Choose the least-cost intervention. It i s important not to over-subsidize services, bothto
    avoid distorting markets andto limit the incentive for corruption. Vouchers maybe a relatively
    high-cost way o f stimulating demand for business development services compared to
    alternative methods (e.g., the provision o finformation). And subsidies should not become the
    centerpiece o fthe project.
    Favor private sector management. Current best practice inprojects that use matching grants
    or vouchers to stimulate markets for business development services is to contract a private firm
    to manage the program. Clear incentives and perfonnance indicators shouldbe established.
    Allow time to learnfrom the pilot phase, providing sufficient opportunity to get management
    and governance issues right.




                                                                        N i l s Fostvedt
                                                                        Acting Director-General
                                                                        Operations Evaluation

                                                     I


 1. EvaluationObjectives andMethodology

 1.1           The evaluation o f the KenyaMicro and Small Enterprise Training and
 Technology Project (MSETTP)was undertakento provide input to OED's upcoming
 review o fthe World Bank's support for small- and medium-scale enterprises. Itis an
 example o fthe Bank's current approach to supporting small enterprise development
 through improvements inthe enabling environment as well as the development o f
 markets for business development services -- inthis case, training services for informal
 sector micro- and small-scale enterprises (MSEs). The evaluation will provide lessons
 for the Bank and other donors who have beentestingthis approach, and inparticular for
 other Bank-financed small enterprise projects that use matching grants or vouchers to
 stimulate the demandfor services.

 1.2          Much o fthe evaluation i s based on an extensive survey o f trainers and
 trainees that participatedinthe project's VTP (detailed inAnnex D). Nearly 300 trainers
 andtrainees were interviewedinfive regions o fthe country: Greater Nairobi, Greater
 Kisumu, Machakos, Mombasahlalindi, andNakuru. The survey was designed to
 determine the impact o fthe programon the performance of trainees, as well as on
 markets for training services. Inparticular, the survey attempted to address the issue o f
 the sustainability of changes inthe trainingmarket that occurred duringthe project.

 1.3          Inadditionto the survey, theevaluationisbaseduponreviews ofthe
 ImplementationCompletion Report, the StaffAppraisal Report, legal documents, project
 files, discussions with Bank staff involved with the project, andinterviews with relevant
 stakeholders inKenya including government officials, NGOs, and other donors.

2. Background

The Jua Kali Sector in Kenya

2.1           The MSETTP was designed duringa time when the Kenyan economyfaced
the challenge o f expanding employment opportunities to absorb a rapidly expanding
workforce. The total labor force was expected to grow at an average rate o f about 4.1
percent per year inthe 1990sand over 6 percent inurbanareas. It was projectedthat a
large share o fnew entrants would be absorbed into the informal sector. The challenge
was not only to stimulate employment inthe informal sector, but also to create conditions
for graduation into the formal sector.

2.2          InKenya, the informal sector is understood to besynonymous withmicro-
andsmall-scale enterprises (MSEs): "self-employed persons inopen markets, inmarket
stalls, inundeveloped lots, or on street pavements within bban centers".' According to a
1999National Baseline SurveyY2         there were about 1.3 millionMSEs employing 2.4

1.Small-Scale Enterprise Surveys conducted annually bythe Kenya Central Bureau of Statistics, cited in
the Project Appraisal Reportp. 5.
2. Kenya Central Bureau ofStatistics, "National Micro and Small Enterprise Baseline Survey 1999." MSEs
are defined as enterprises with 1-50 employees; microenterprises are those with 1-10employees.

                                                    2


million workers. Ofthese, 99 percent were microenterprises, andnearly two-thirds were
 located inrural areas. Sixty-four percent o fMSEs were involved intrade, 22 percent in
 services, and 13 percent inmanufacturing. The term "Jua Kali", literally meaning "hot
 sun" inKiswahili, is usedcolloquiallyto refer to MSEsthat manufactureproducts or
provide productive services, rather thantradersper se. It was this segment o f 172,000
manufacturingsector MSEs that was the target population of the project.

2.3           The baseline survey found that the mainconstraints to better M S E
performance were lack o f accessto markets (cited by 34 percent o f sample respondents)
followed by lack o f accessto credit (18 percent). The Bank's Private Sector
Development Strategy at the time found that the private sector inKenya suffered from
policy failures -- a lack o f macroeconomic discipline, poor and unevenenforcement o f
laws, and excessive regulations. The informal sector was further constrained by the lack
o fworksite security andbasic infrastructure; limitedaccess to formal credit; low skill
levels; and an inability to acquire informationonmarketing and technology opportunities.
Theproject was designed to address some o fthese constraints.

The MarketDevelopmentApproachto BusinessDevelopmentServices

2.4           The project was an early example o f a new approach to the provision o f
business development services (BDS) to small enterprise^.^ Inthe traditional approach to
BDS, manytypes o f services were provided directly to MSEs bypublic sector agencies
or donor-supported providers, often free o f charge. However, the results o fthis approach
were disappointing. ManyMSEs complained that the services providedwere o fpoor
quality or irrelevantto their needs. There was little evidence that such services had a
positive impact on M S E performance (e.g., sales, profits, and employment). And
sustainability was poor -- often, the provision o f services ceasedwhen funds ranout or
the project ended.

2.5           Recently, a group o f donors havepromotedthe so-called ''market
development approach" to BDS interventions, attempting to stimulate the provision o f
services on a commercial basis byprivate firms, NGOs, business associations, or other^.^
Underthis approach, the role ofthe government or donor shifts to facilitatingmarket
development rather than attemptingto substitutefor markets by directly providing
services to MSEs. Interventionsmay be on the demandside (increasing the willingness
to pay on the part o fMSEs, e.g., by raisingtheir awareness o fthe benefits o f services) or
the supply side (helpingproviders improve the cost-effectiveness and quality o f services)
or both.

2.6           The project was one o fthe first financed by the Bank that followed the market
development approach. The main component o f the project acted on the demand side o f


3. Business development services include a wide array o fnon-financial services such labor and
management training, technology upgrading, infomationservices, accounting and auditing, marketing, and
business linkages.
4. Committee o fDonor Agencies for Small Enterprise Development, "GuidingPrinciples for Business
Development Services for Small Enterprises", February 2001.

                                               3


 the market by issuingvouchers to potentialtrainees, thereby subsidizing the cost o f
 training and allowing trainees to choose their own trainer. It was hopedthat the short-
 term stimulus providedby the voucher would encourage long-term increases inthe
 supply and demand for training -- on the supply side by encouraging innovationby
 commercially-orientedtrainers, and on the demand side by increasing MSEs' willingness
 to pay.

 2.7          As with anymarket, the use o fsubsidies inBDSmarkets needs an economic
justification. In the short term, it can be argued that subsidies to develop markets are
 worthwhile ifthey are not too distorting -- inother words, iftheir market development
 impact outweighs their distortionary impact. Inthe long term, subsidiesarejustifiedonly
 iftheysupport theproductionofgenuinepublic goods. Inthecaseofbasic education,
 the public goods argument i s usually accepted. For MSEtraining, the decisionhinges on
 the degree to which the training benefits the economy (or at least the MSE sector) as a
whole, beyondthe private gains to MSEs(inthe form of increased sales or profits).

3.        Project Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Objectives

3.1           The long term objective o fthe MSETTP was to enhance entrepreneurial
development inthe Kenyanprivate sector and, more specifically, reduce constraints to
employment promotionand income enhancement inthe MSE(informal) ~ector.~Specific
objectives were to (i)     develop and implementpolicies to establish an enabling
environment for entrepreneurial development; (ii)    provide access to skilltraining and
appropriate technology for MSEs, and facilitate technological innovation inthe MSE
sector; and (iii)  improve the operational andmanagerialcapacity o f institutions and
programs that support the sector's development. The projectwas targeted at
manufacturing enterprises with one to 50 workers, particularly those owned by women.
Regionally, the project was targeted at major urban andperi-urban areas o f the country.

Relevance of Objectives

3.2          The 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) notedthat, despiterelatively
good growth duringthe second halfo f the 1980s, the Kenyan economy had failed to
generate manynewjobs, and there hadbeen little reductioninpoverty. Without pursuing
policies that would encourage labor-intensive growth, the country faced a continued
gradual decline into more widespread poverty. In addition to macroeconomic stability
andadequateinfrastructure, the CAS notedthat themainproblems facedbytheprivate
sector were institutionalinnature. TheMSETTPwas part o fthe Bank's efforts to boost
employment and incomes, includingthose inthe informal sector.

3.3          Most Government officials andrepresentatives o f donor agencies interviewed
for the evaluation expressedthe view that the project was highlyrelevant at the time.


5. Staff Appraisal Report, March2, 1994.

                                                 4


 The Jua Kali sector employed a large share ofthe populationandprovidedentry-leveljob
 opportunities for the expanding labor force. The sector was inneedo f upgraded labor
 andmanagement skills, which were the focus ofthe MSETTP.

 3.4           There were some dissenting views. Some questioned the Bank's focus on
traditional Jua Kali skills such as tie-dying andhandicrafts, inan economy that needed to
 exploit more advanced technologies to become globally competitive. Others suggested
that the project could have been targeted more specifically to industriesandregions
where demandwas evident andself-employment was feasible.

 3.5           Onbalance, this evaluation finds that the project's focus on traditional
informal sector skills was appropriate for Kenya's poverty and employment agenda, even
ifitwas less appropriate for the growthagenda. Thus, theobjectives oftheMSETTP
were substantially relevant to the country's development priorities and the Bank's
assistance strategy.

Components

3.6           As originally designed, theproject hadfour components (detailed components
andcosts are containedinAnnex C):

         a Micro- and Small Enterprise Training Fund(appraisal estimate $11.5 million) to
         provide incentives for skill upgradingand technology development for MSEs, and
         for diversifying andimprovingpublic andprivate sector training capacity. There
         were two subcomponents: a Voucher Training Programto subsidize the purchase
         o f training services by MSEs, and a Contract Training Scheme to provide training
         to the trainers.
         a Technology Development andPilot Infrastructure component (appraisal
         estimate $5.6 million), also with two subcomponents: a Technology
         InformatiodInnovation andResearch Programto improve product design and
         quality byproviding equipment, training, andtechnical assistance to MSEs, and a
         Pilot InfrastructureDevelopment subcomponent to provide MSEswith legal and
         secure tenure to worksites andto facilitate their access to infrastructure.
         an InstitutionalDevelopment component (appraisal estimate $2.1 million) that
         included staff development inthe implementingagency and Jua Kali
         organizations, as well as support for policy analysis and monitoring and
         evaluation inthe implementingagency and other ministries.
         a component to cover the administrative costs o fthe Project CoordinationOffice
         andother participating organizations (appraisal estimate $1.7 million).

3.7           Dueto lack ofprogress onimplementation(described below), amid-term
review missioninJuly 1997 recommended that the project be restructured.6 The three
main objectives o fthe project remained unchanged, but greater emphasis was given to the
Micro and Small EnterpriseTraining Fundwith a more explicit objective o f developing
sustainable marketsfor training services. The target number o fMSEtrainees was

6. The changes were reflected inthe amendedDevelopment Credit Agreement o fJuly 31, 1998.

                                                5


 loweredfrom 60,000 to 32,000 (subsequently revisedunofficially to 24,000), andthe
 estimated cost was reduced from $11.5 millionto $7.5 million. The Technology
Development andPilot Infrastructure component added a microfinance sub-component,
 andthe InstitutionalDevelopment component re-focused specifically on developingand
implementing a monitoringand evaluation plan.

ImplementationArrangements

3.8          Originally, the National Federation o f Jua Kali Associations (NFJKA) was to
be.responsible for managingthe VTP, underthe government ministryincharge o f
implementingthe MSETTP (the Ministryo f Research, Technical Training, and
Technology, or MRTT&T). However, the JFJKA was unable to assume this
responsibility due to a legalbattle over control of the Association, and instead a
professional Project Coordination Office (PCO) was established inthe MRTT&T. The
VTP involved three market players: the trainingproviders (public or private training
institutes, individual trainers, or master craftsmen); the MSEtrainees; and intermediary
"allocating agents". Many o fthe allocating agents were associations of h a Kali
entrepreneurs.

3.9          Initially, the VTP was to finance 90 percent o f the cost o ftraining, with the
remainder contributedby the training beneficiaries. Subsequent vouchers to the same
trainee were to require a largerbeneficiary contribution. Itwas expected that, at a later
stage, the Jua Kali Associations and/or individual artisans would contribute to the hll
cost o f training to ensure sustainability.

3.10         The role o fthe allocating agent was to receive and approve applications for
vouchers from potentialtrainees, distribute the vouchers to approved trainees, qualify
training providers for participation inthe program, andverify that training took place. In
return, the allocating agents were to receive three percent o f the value o f vouchers
distributed. The trainees obtained vouchers from the allocating agents uponpayingtheir
10percent contribution, andchose their trainingprovider from the list o fthose qualified
bythe allocating agent. Uponcompletiono fthe training andverificationbythe
allocating agent, the training provider submitted the vouchers to the Ministryfor
reimbursement.

3.11         Under the Technology Development subcomponent, Jua Kali Associations
were to receive training from microfinance institutions andother assistance to set up
savings and credit cooperatives, usingvouchers from the VTP. The Pilot Infrastructure
subcomponent was to be implementedinMombasa andKisumuby the Jua Kali
Associations, with assistance from privately contracted organizations.

3.12         Regular assessments o ftrainee skill and technology needs, andtraining
provider capacity were to be undertakenby Jua Kali Associations on an annual basis.
Projectimpact.evaluationswere to be carried out by the Ministryof Planning andthe
Ministryo fLaborandHumanResource Development.

                                                         6


 3.13          As a conditionofBoardpresentation, the Government provideda Letter o f
 Informal Sector Policy and Time-Bound Action Plandesignedto foster an enabling
 policy environment for the informal sector. Various barriers to entry, operation, and exit
 were to be removedor simplified, e.g., registration, licensing, accessingurbanlandto Jua
 Kali operators, buildingstandards, and other business regulations.

 DonorViews on ProjectDesign

 3.14          The VTP was the centerpiece ofthe redesignedproject, and it involved a large
 subsidy (90 percent o fthe cost o ftraining). This designreflectedan assumption onthe
 part o fthe Government, acceptedbythe Bank,that a largesubsidy was necessaryto
 encourage MSEs to engage intraining andto get training providers interested in
 providing it.

 3.15          This assumption was questioned by a group ofdonors involved inMSE
 activities inKenyabefore the project was presented to the Board. The donors --
 including those fiom the US.,Germany, U.K., andthe Netherlands -- objected bothto
 the large subsidy andthe governance structure, and attempted to block the project
 through their respective Executive Directors. Some felt that their efforts to promote
 commercial BDS would beunderminedbythe heavily subsidized services o f the
 MSETTP, andthat the large subsidy would be open to abuse.' Inresponse, Bank staff
 metwiththe donors andmade some modificationsto project design. However, donors
 interviewedfor this evaluation commented that the changes were minor, and that they felt
 that the Bank hadriddenroughshod over their concerns.8

 Implementation

 3.16          The project became effective onNovember 28, 1994, but implementation got
 off to a slow start. The PCO was not formed untilFebruary1996. The hiringo f
 consultants for the VTP took about one year, andtraining o fPCO andMRTT&T staff
 another year. Dueto slow progress inimplementation, a number o f changeswere made
 following a review mission inJune-July 1997. Inaddition, management o f the project in
the East Afiica Department was transferred fiom the PopulationandHuman Resources
Division to the Private Sector Finance Group.

7. Ina letter to the MRTT&TPennanent Secretary, the UNDP outlinedthe concerns o f donors, including
the lack o f consultation during the preparation o f the project; the impact o f subsidized training o n
institutions that were attempting to provide training on a sustainable basis; the role o f the Government in
technology development; and the lack o f clear objectives and impact indicators. The donors recommended
an independent, professionally-managed implementation structure, and a strengthened monitoring and
evaluationsystem.
8. Some o f these problems were recognized byBank staff at the time. InFebruary 1995,the project's task
manager organized a meeting o fBank staff with expertise inthe area to discuss the MSETTP's project
management and implementation structure. According to a memo sent by'the task manager to his division
chief, the group unanimously agreed that the project was unimplementable due to its complex and unclear
management structure and insufficiently specified implementationprocess, especially giventhe extreme
level o f corruptioninKenya. Inresponse, the task manager's division chief suggested that the meeting had
not been constructive, and that it was unhealthy to condemn the project after it had already suffered abuse
in1994.

                                                    7


 3.17         Interviews with government officials, NGOs, and other stakeholders
 suggestedthat the project sufferedfrom frequent changes o f task mangers inthe Bank as
 well as implementing agencies inthe Government. Inthe latter, responsibility for the
project shifted from MRTT&T to its successoragency, the Ministry o f Education,
 Science, and Technology; then to the Office o fthe President; and finally to the Ministry
 of Labor andHumanResource Development (MLHRD). Across these ministries, the
project was managedbyninesuccessivePermanent Secretaries. These changes
 compounded other delays inimplementationbecausethe counterpart funds were part o f
 each ministry'sbudget and didnot transfer to the newly responsible agency; as a result,
project implementationwas sometimes heldup untilthe next budget year. Inthe Bank,
task management changed three times.

3.18          Implementationo fthe VTP acceleratedtoward the end o fthe project. During
the first phasewhentheprogramwas implementedin19 districts, 11,494 vouchers were
issuedwithin two years; duringthe secondphase when the program was implemented
nationwide, 26,967 vouchers were issued inthe same time period. Inthe final extension
phase o fthe project, only 419 vouchers were issued.


4.        Achievement of Outcomes

4.1           This section focuses on the achievement o f outcomes inthree key areas: MSE
performance, the development o fmarkets for training services, andthe policy and
institutional environment. A detailed list of output targets, achievements, and actual
costs i s contained inAnnex C. The methodology andresults o f the OED survey are
contained inAnnex D.

MSEOutcomes

4.2           Coverage and participation. Data from MLHRDshows that nearly 35,000
MSEsreceivedtraining, compared to theproject's officially revisedtarget of32,000.9
This amounts to 2.7 percent ofthe estimated 1.3 millionJua Kali enterprises inKenya,
and20 percent o fthe estimated 172,000 manufacturingsector Jua Kalis.

4.3           OED's survey o ftrainees provided informationon the characteristics o fMSEs
that participated:

         57 percent were female (similar to the ICR estimate o f 60 percent), almost three
         times the project's target o f20 percent.
         Consistent with the largeparticipationby women, the sectoral compositiono f
         trainees was concentrated insectors dominated by female workers, including
         textiles (66 percent) and agro-processing (21percent).
         About halfo f trainees hadnot received any trainingbefore the VTP. The most
         important reason (48 percent) was that they felt that training was too expensive.


9. Because of the unavailability ofproject data inMLHRD,OED was not able to c o n f i i the number o f
beneficiaries.

                                                       8



 4.4           Although a majority (67 percent) o f trainees reported that they were sole
 proprietorships, it appearedthat a large proportion o fthese were students who were
 takingcourseswith the expectation o f employment. This suggestedthat the VTP was
 used to some extent as amechanism to support pre-employment vocational training rather
 than to upgrade the skills o f existingMSEs. Interviewswith trainees andtraining
 providers suggestedthat the degree o fmotivationo f the students was mixed: because of
 the large subsidy, manyMSEs took training for which they hadno immediate use. Due
 to the late start o f the program, it was not marketed adequately, resultinginlower
 participationinrural areas.

 4.5           MSEperformance. Four out offive traineesreported that therelevance and
 quality o fthe training they receivedunder the VTP was good or excellent. There were
 many "success stories" o ftrainees that usedtheirnewly-acquiredskills to expand or
 diversify their business or start a new business (Box 1). Trainees surveyed reportedthat
 they improvedthe quality o f their product (43 percent), introduceda new product or
 service (71 percent), increased sales (66 percent), or found new markets (58 percent)." A
 lower proportion (20 percent) reportedthat they enjoyed easier access to credit after
receivingtraining.

4.6            Interviews with trainees andtraining providers suggestedthat improvements
inperformance were greatest for existingMSEsthat hadspecific trainingneeds, knew
what they wanted, and hadmarket opportunities to enable them to profit from usingtheir
new skills. For trainees that were not employed or who hadnot yet started a business, the
impact ofthe VTP was lower. And for those trainees that were brought into the VTP by
a training provider andwho chose to participate becauseofthe low voucher co-payment,
the impact was even lower.

4.7            At the sectoral level, the performance impact o ftrainingwas greatest inagro
processing (e.g., baking), chemicals (soap, medicinalplants), textiles, handicrafts, and
informationtechnology (particularly hardware). Therewas less impact (and lower
participation) woodworking and metalworking, where product marketswere less
dynamic.

4.8            Trainees reported two other factors that lowered the potential impact o f
training: the needfor tools andother materials (particularly inauto repair and other
metalworking), and lack o f accessto credit to start or expanda business. This barrier
mighthavebeenlessenedifthe MSETTP's microfinance component hadbeenhlly
implemented (see below). Finally, the short-term nature o f the trainingprovided under
the VTP meant that graduateswere not given certificates typical o f longer courses. Many
trainees reported that the lack o f certificationprevented them from finding employment.




10. The sample oftrainees was not selected randomly (see Annex D); many ofthe participants were invited
bytheir trainingproviders or byregionalrepresentatives ofthe MLHRD. This may have introduceda
positive bias inthe results, suggesting that they should be interpreted withcaution.

                                               9


    ~~                        ~




 Box 1: Case Studies of Trainees

 Margaret Muiru of Ja-Khline Enterprises in Nairobi makes soaps and detergents and sells new
 clothing and leatherwaremade by others. Ms.Muiruhas a university degree insocial work, and
 she was unemployedbefore the VTP. With her voucher, she took a course in soap and detergent
 making. The course was 10 hoursper week for 12 weeks. Today, soap and detergent making is
 hermainbusiness and sourceofincome.


 Naiomi Wasuule owns a garment making business. She has a knitting machine and does
 decoration and hand work as well. Ms. Wasuule was a home science teacher at a school for
 hearing-impaired girls in Western Kenya when she learned about the \/TP from an allocating
 agent. Using the voucher, she arranged with the sewing teacher at the school to give her private
 lessons inthe eveningand onweekends indress makingand sewingmachinerepair.
 The skills she learned allowedher to start abusiness upon retirement. It also opened her eyes to
 new ways of learning, and she has since paid for and attendedcourses intie and dye, sewing of
 food warmers, civic education, andHIVIAIDS awareness.



4.9          Two tracer studies were conducted under the project that compared changes in
performance o f trainees with that o f a control group. These studies provide more reliable
informationon the impact o fthe VTP on MSEperformance becausethey deal with the
 counterfactual, Le., what would have happenedto MSEperformance inthe absence o fthe
VTP. The studies showed that the VTP improvedprofits, sales, andinvestmentina
significant proportiono ftrainees, relative to a control group. It also encouraged the start-
up ofnewbusinesses, particularlybywomen. The 2001 tracer studynoted that 80
percent o ftrainees reportedgrowth intheir business (as against 13 percent inthe control
group), and 61percent had addedbusiness assets (versus 21 percent inthe control group).
Thus the VTP hadapositive, significant impact onMSEperfonnance.

TrainingMarketOutcomes

4.10         Performanceoftrainingproviders. As withthe trainees, there were stories
o f training providers that benefited from the VTP (Box 2). The program encouraged
some trainingproviders to expand their training business (38 percent reportedusingtheir
VTP revenues to improvetheir trainingbusiness). A significant proportion o fproviders
(26 percent) usedthe training programas a means o f expanding their other business,
either through the contacts made through the program, or by investing some or all o ftheir
training revenues intheir other business.

4.11         Some training providers reported that, bytraining others inthe skills they used
intheir ownbusinesses, theycreatedcompetition for themselves that hadanegative
impact on their business. In fact, some went out o fbusiness completelybecause of
increased competition fi-om their trainees. This raises the issue o f the impact o fthe VTP
on markets for products that used the skills: the newly-trained competitors may have
merelyreplaced existing suppliers, or mayhave increasedthe supply of aproduct with

                                                10


 inelastic demand (say, car repair), thus lowering the profits andwages of all owners and
 workers inthe industry.

 4.12         For some training providers, the revenues they received under the VTP were
 quite large, and because payments were delayed they became a "windfall" available for
 large purchases. For many, this allowed large personal expenditures such as real estate
 anduniversityfees for their children.

 Box 2: Case Studies of TrainingProviders

 Joram Onega, 71 years old, started his own metal workshop in 1975 after working for a number
 o f years as a panel beater with Marshall's Motors in Nairobi. Onega Metal produces hayforks,
rakes, steel windows, watering cans, condom dispensers, dustbins, and exhaust pipes. He has
been providing training through the apprentice system since he opened his workshop, and
currently has six apprentices.
Under the VTP, Mr. Onega trained 20 young men supported by vouchers.              Redeeming the
vouchers was a long and tedious process. He traveled to Nairobi ten times, on a bus trip o f eight
hours each way, attempting to claim his fees. When he was told that his records were "lost", he
refused to pay a bribe to have his file located and instead went to court to have his photocopies
certified as originals.
Despite these problems, Mr.Onega was happy that he participated inthe project, believing that
hisassociationwith the WorldBankbrought himmorebusiness.


Caroline Ndunge Nzioka started her ago-processing business in 1993 and became a trainer inthe
VTP in 1998. She received over Ksh 780,000 (US$11,143) over the two and a half years she
participated inthe program, and used the funds to buy ajuice extractor for her business. The rest
was used for a plot costing about Ksh 180,000 (US$2,571) and for payinguniversity fees for her
children.
Ms.Nziokabelieves that she improvedanddiversifiedher ago-processing business as aresult of
her involvement with the VTP. Before the VTP, her customers were mainly small kiosk owners.
She has since expanded her business and i s supplying supermarkets in Machakos. Before the
project, she provided on-the-job training, but now she i s operating the Start Technical Training
Institute in Machakos. The Institute charges about Ksh 3,500 (US$50) for a typical 80-hour
course inago-processing (making juices, jams, tomato sauce, and baked goods).


Susan Kambua Mutunga, Muwika General Products in Mombasa, began training students in
textiles skills in 1991 and participated in the VTP during 1997-2002. She trained about 160
students over the five-year period. With the Ksh 1.5 million (US$21,429)) she earned under the
VTP, she purchased a workshop and equipment (Ksh790,000 or US$ll,285) and a house for her
family (Ksh 300,000 or US$4,286). These payments were delayed, so Ms.Mutunga took out a
loan from K-REP.
Since the VTP ended, Ms.Mutunga has opened a polytechnic school inMakueni and has trained
40 students, charging Ksh 12,000 (US$171) for an eight-week course. She i s planning to start
mother school inMutito Adei inMay 2005.

                                                       11


 4.13         Incidenceofthe subsidy. OEDinterviews andsurvey data provide
 information o n the incidence o f the subsidy during the operation of the VTP. The
 incidence o f the subsidy refers to the share ofthe subsidy received by trainees (the
 demand side) versus training providers (the supply side), which inturn are determinedby
 the elasticities o f demand and supply, not by the initial allocation o f the subsidy.

 4.14         To explain this concept, Figure 1illustrates the effect of a demand-side
 subsidy such as vouchers on the market for training services. The voucher scheme shifts
 out the demand curve for training, resulting inthe purchase of (Q' - Q) additional
 services. Ifthe supply of training is fairly elastic -- because there is a fairly competitive
 supply from training providers -- the voucher scheme increases the volume o f services
 purchased with little or no impact on training fees. This is shown inthe graph on the left,
 where the increase infees receivedby trainers is shown as an increase from P to Ps. But
 ifthe supply oftraining services is inelastic -- as mightoccur ina lesswell-developed
 market for MSEtraining -- the main effect of the voucher scheme is to raise the price of
 training significantly, with a small impact on the amount purchased (the graph on the
 right).

                         Figure1: Incidenceof the Voucher Subsidy



                           Elastic Supply                      InelasticSupply


               Price of                            Price of
               Training                            Training
               Services                            Services




                       Ps
                       P

                      Pd



                                 Q-      Q'                    Q'  Q'

                                       Quantityof                       Quantity of
                                     Training Services                  Training Services




4.15        Figure 1illustrates the idea that the "incidence" o f the subsidy -- the share of
the subsidy ultimately received by the demanders (MSEs) versus suppliers (training
providers) -- depends on the elasticities o f demand and supply, not on who initially
receives the subsidy. Ifthe supply of training services is relatively inelastic, most ofthe
subsidy ((Ps -P) x Q') i s captured by training providers, and only a small share ((P - Pd)
x Q') is receivedbyMSEs.

                                                 12


 4.16         The OED survey results suggestthat this, infact, was what happened inthe
 VTP: a large share ofthe subsidywas captured by the trainingprovidersrather than the
 trainees. The medianhourly cost o ftraining charged by existingtraining providers
 increased from Ksh9 before the VTP to Ksh92 duringthe VTP (Figure 2), indicating
 that training providers were able to significantly increase their prices and capture the
 subsidy. Interms o f stimulating the demand side o fthe market, this suggests that the
 program was very expensive (not efficient) for the results it achieved.

 4.17         Quantity and quality of training. Accordingto the NationalAssociation for
 Technology Transfer and Entrepreneurial Training (NATTET), o fthe 100 to 150training
 providers that were active inthe VTP, about 15 are still involvedintraining, sometimes
providingtraining ina scaled-down format (e.g., one week instead o f two). They
 suggestedthat the majority shifted back to their previous or other business. Ofthose that
 stayed, some went into differenttypes o f training such as pre-employment training rather
than training o f Jua Kali entrepreneurs.

4.18         However, most o fthe training providers surveyed by OED (91percent)
reportedthat they were continuingto provide training services. At the same time, a
similar proportion (93 percent) hadprovided training before the VTP. Most said that the
type, duration, andprice o f training they provided after the VTP were similar to the type,
duration, andprice before the VTP. The shift toward shorter courses that had taken place
duringthe VTP seemedto havebeenreversed, as some trainingprovidersreported
shiftingback to longer courses, andaway from formal courses toward apprenticeships.
Thus it appearedthat the VTP didnot create a sustainable post-project increase inthe
supply or design o ftraining courses.

4.19         The Technology Developmentcomponent ofthe project providedfimds for
training o ftrainers. According to the MLHRD, 1,275 clients were trained or received
subsidies for business development services; the number o f clients was not brokendown
into training providers and others. One o f the tracer studies found that the objectives o f
this component were met andthat itplayedarole inenhancing informationexchange and
business networks among MSEs. However, interviews conducted by OED found that
most o f the large companies selected to participatewithdrew, andthat few o fthe training
providers surveyed hadreceived training.

4.20         A recent donor report on EastAfrican experiences withbusinessmanagement
assistance" suggestedthat few businessesinKenyawere aware o fthe registry o f training
providers heldby NATTET, andthose that were expressedconsiderable skepticism as to
its usefulness and the quality o fthose enrolled init. Since formal certification did not
guarantee quality during the VTP, the report claimed that MSE clients still face the time-
consumingtask o f vettingthe providers inthe list. The report suggestedthat the VTP
hadworsened the prospects for serious, competent local consultants since it i s now more
difficult for prospective clients to determine competencies among a much larger number
o fwould-be providers.

12. Christy, RalphD.andJeffrey C. Fine, "Overview ofBusiness ManagementAssistance andLinkage
Strategies: EastAfricanExperiences." ProVenExFund,RockefellerFoundation,August 2004.

                                                 13


4.21         Willingnessto pay. Basedon interviewswith 23 trainees and22 training
providers, an impact evaluation conducted for the ICR concluded that sustainability was
likely because o f a stated increase inthe willingness to pay byMSEs as well as a stated
increase inthe willingness o fproviders to adjust courses andprices to meet demand."
However, responsesto hypotheticaltransaction (contingent valuation) questions are
notoriously inaccurate predictors o f actual willingness to pay. Basedon OED survey
data, Figure 2 shows the frequency distribution o ftraining fees (on a per-hour basis)
before, during, and after the VTP, as reported by training providers that were active inall
three periods.

4.22         The charts show that the VTP shifted the distribution o ftraining fees to the
right, but that the shift was almost completelyreversed after the VTP. The median
hourly fee for training was Ksh9 per hour before the VTP, Ksh92 duringthe VTP, and
Ksh 13 after the program ended. The increase inhourly fees duringthe VTP was partly
due to the nature o fthe training delivered(shorter andmore formal courses, as opposed
to longer apprenticeships), but the increase infees was apparent even for courses o f
similartype andduration. Theseresults suggestthat the VTP didnothave a sustained
impact on the willingness to pay for training.

4.23        Finally, some interview information indicatedthat the VTP had a negative
impact on willingness to pay becauseMSEs came to expect that training would continue
to be subsidized inthe future. Indeed, most trainees expressed strong interest ina follow-
on project to the MSETTP, particularly ifit were accompanied by a credit component.

Policyand InstitutionalOutcomes

4.24        Inadditionto theVTP, theprojectcontained components that addressed
policy and institutional constraints to MSEdevelopment:

        reforms to the legal andregulatory environment affecting MSEs, such as the
        removal or simplification o fbarriers to entry, operation, and exit; barriers to land
        access byJua Kali operators; building standards; and other business regulations.
        formulation o f a National Training Strategy.
        a pilot infrastructureprogramto provide MSEs with infrastructureneeds in
        production areas.
        assistance to Jua Kali Associations ingetting training and informing Savings and
        Credit Cooperatives (SACCOs).
        capacity buildinginorganizations servingthe MSE sector, including Jua Kali
        Associations andthe NFJKA.
        capacity buildinginthe implementing agency (MRTT&T and subsequently
        MLHRD)to improvestrategy formulation, policy analysis, andmonitoringand
        evaluation.




13. DavidPhillips, "DevelopmentImpactStudy o f the TrainingandBusinessDevelopmentServices
VoucherProgram." Preparedfor WorldBankAfricaRegionPrivateSector Group, May 16,2003.

                                         14



               Figure 2: TrainingFees Before,During,andAfter the VTP

No. TPs 25


        20


        15


        10


         5


         0                                                          'I
           0  25   50     75   100  125  150  175   200   225    250 >250
                                                        Fee per hour


No.TPs l2

       10

         8

         6

         4

         2

         0                                                          '1
          0   25   50     75  100  125   150  175   200   225    250 >250
                                                        Fee per hour


No.TPs 2o 7
             I                                   After VTP
            14-  median = 13
       15    I




       I O


        5


        0
          0                                                         'I
              25  50      75  100  125   150  175   200   225    250 >250
                                                        Fee per hour

                                              15


 4.25        Some o f the institutionalobjectives were fully achieved or partially achieved.
 Training and technical assistance to MLHRDresultedinthe creation o f a department for
 MSE development responsible for monitoring the performance o fthe MSE sector,
 coordinatingMSE policies andprojects, and evaluating donor programs relatedto MSEs.
 The Ministry's District and Provincial Applied Technology Officers, who played an
 important role inthe project, continue to play an active role inMSE development at the
 local level.

 4.26        The monitoring and evaluation component was highlysuccessful duringthe
 operation o fthe project. Four monitoring and evaluation studies were conducted by local
 consultant firms, including two tracer studies that compared outcomes for participating
 trainees with a control group. Project data ontrainingproviders andtrainees has not been
 maintainedby the MLHRDfor Wher follow-up and impact evaluation (although not
 specifically requiredby the Bankmore thantwo years after project closing).

4.27         Other policy andinstitutionalobjectives were less successful, particularly
those relatingto microfinance, infrastructure, andthe enabling environment:

         54 SACCOs were formed, but only 13 started operations. Seventy-nine officials
         from 16 SACCOs participated incapacity-building activities under the project.
        However, OED interviews with trainees suggestedthat few were aware o f these
         SACCOs andthat lack o f access to credit was still the primary obstacle for MSE
        growth.
        Contracting for work sites under the infrastructure component began after the
         1998 restructuringo fthe project, but suffered delays due to difficulties in
        obtaining secure landtitles for the Jua Kali Associations. The component was
        eventually dropped when it became clear that constructioncould not be
        undertaken before project closure.
        The submission o f seven draft bills to Parliament, reforming the legal and
        regulatory environment for MSEs, was a condition o f disbursement. A year after
        effectiveness, appropriate revisionshadbeenmade to four laws. The failure to
        complete the policy agendawas one factor that ledto dropping o fthe
        infrastructurecomponent andrestructuringo f the technology development
        component.

4.28        The impact o ftheproject on JuaKaliAssociations andthe NFJKAwas
mixed. As allocating agents inthe VTP, the Jua Kali Associations played a role in
linkingMSEs withtrainingproviders. They also playeda role inthe project's efforts to
increase access to microfinance andinfrastructure. At the same time, they sufferedsome
reputational damage as a result o fthe mismanagement o f funds andalleged corruption
associatedwith the VTP (see below). Andbecausethe VTP created such large incentives
for groups to form to become allocating agents, many o fthe Jua Kali Associations were
simplygroups o findividuals that didnot act inthe interest o fthe MSEsthey supposedly
represented.

4.29        The NFJKAwas initially to play arole intheproject, butpoliticalinfighting
early inthe project ledto their exclusion from the Project Board. Inthe end, the

                                                16


NFJKA's relationship with the Jua Kali Associations, as well as its role inthe
 implementation o f the project, were unclear.

 4.30     Inhindsight,the Banktook too muchfor grantedwithrespectto the governance
 structure of the JuaKali Associations and the NFJKA. Better governance and
 representationbythese organizations -- for example, throughregular elections of their
 leaders -- shouldhave been a conditionfor their participation inthe project.


 5.       FinancialManagement

DelayedPayments

 5.1          One o fthe most frequently citedproblemsthat plaguedthe VTP was the delay
inpayments onvoucher claims submitted bytrainingprovidersto the implementing
agency (MLHRD). This problemwas cited inan in-depthreview o fprojectprocesses
carried out byPrice Waterhouse Coopers duringproject implementati~n,'~as well as by a
large majority of trainingproviders that participatedinthe OED survey. Most survey
respondents waited between three months and two years to receive payment. One-third o f
training providers reported that they never received any payment. Payment delays were
also reportedby some allocating agents, who were to receive three percent o fvoucher
value to compensate them for administrative costs associatedwith the VTP. Some
allocating agents reported payment delays of up to three to four years. OED was unable
to obtain data from MLHRDto support or contradict the survey andinterview
information.

5.2          Several possible reasons have been advanced to explainthe payment delays:

    0     successive changes inthe ministryresponsible for project management, without
         accompanying transfer o fbudgets.
    0    inadequate counterpart funds providedby the Government, sometimes due to
         allocationto higher-priorityuses.
    0    multipleprocedures requiredto verify and issuepayments.
         improper or fraudulent claims by the training providers that eventuallyresultedin
         nonpayment.
    0    alleged corruption by officials alongthe chain o f approval and issuance of
         payments.

5.3          Eighty-seven percent o ftraining providers inthe OED survey said that the
delays inpayments hadaffected their business -- either their training business or their
other business. Typical o fthe feedback received are the quotations inBox 3.

5.4          Ironically, payment delays had a positive impact for some training providers:
itwas amechanism offorcedsaving. Whenpayments didarrive, they oftenprovided

13. Price Waterhouse Coopers (2002). "The World Bank -- Kenya: In-Depth Review o f MSETTP with
Special Focus onVoucher Training Programmes.'' November.

                                                     17


significant sums for investment or consumption. Survey information suggests that
training providers used the voucher reimbursements for both business and personal uses.
Although there were many stories o f expenditures on personal real estate, school tuition
for children, and other personal expenditures, the OED survey indicated that more
training providers used some or all o f the voucher reimbursements to invest intheir
training business (38 percent) or intheir other business (26 percent) thanfor personal
expenditures (19 percent).

5.5          Delays inpayments were awell-known problemthat reportedly demoralized
manytrainingproviders andcreated areputational issue for the Bank. Inaddition,
awareness o fthe problem causedmanypotential trainers -- including some o fthe most
qualified ones -- to decide not to participate inthe VTP.

PaymentIrregularitiesandAllegations of Corruption

5.6          Evidence from OED interviews suggestedthat the VTP's large subsidy,
multipleprocedures, andweak oversight created an environment conduciveto payment
irregularities and corruption. According to OED survey data and anecdotal evidence
from field interviews, the alleged abuses were said to have taken many forms:

         Inorder to get clients, sometrainingproviderswere saidto havepaidthe 10
         percent trainee contribution. This problemwas reportedby a large number o f
         interviewees but not verified bythe survey data: only 12 percent o ftrainees
         admitted that their contribution hadbeenpaidby a training provider.I4
         Some trainees were said to have been recruitedby training providers to go to the
         allocating agent and select them; inreturn, the provider would pay the trainee
         contribution.
         Some training providers were said to have paidthe allocating agent to get trainees
         assignedto them.
         "Briefcase trainers" (unqualified training providers) were said to have done what
         ittook to get registered, butthe quality of their training was never checked.
         Bribeswere said to havebeenpaidbytrainingproviders to allocatingagents (or
         byprovidersto trainees) to obtain certificationthat trainingtook place, when it
         didnot.
         Some trainees were said to have sold their vouchers to trainingproviders, and
         then the provider would obtain ahigher-valuevoucher payment (even though
         training hadnot takenplace).
         Some training providers were said to have paidbribes to MLHRDofficials in
         order to receivetheir payments, or receive them sooner. Political connections
        were also said to have beenused.
         Some allocating agents were said to have helpedtrainees take courses that were
        not intended to be supported by the project (e.g., driving lessons, takenunder the
        guise ofmotor vehicle repair).



14.A similar number of training providers (less than 10percent) were found to have paid the trainee
contributioninthe Price Waterhouse review.

                                                 18


5.7           Some o fthese irregularities (e.g., payment o f the trainee contributionby the
training provider) were not illegal, but ran contrary to the intendedoperation o fthe
voucher scheme. Other alleged abuses (paying bribes to government officials) would
have been illegal. Some o f those interviewedsuggestedthat problems arosebecausetoo
manypeople were involvedina cash-basedsystem. Since theVTP was so profitable for
training providers, the programtendedto be drivenbythe suppliers o f services rather
thanbeing "demand-driven".


Box 3: Impact of DelayedPayments on Training Providers

Most o f the 107 training providers interviewed for this evaluation reported long delays in
payments for vouchers they turned into the MLHRD for reimbursement after they had provided
training. Respondents reported the following problems:
Indebtedness:

0    "It distorted my business. Ihad to use my metal business salesfund to buy training material.
    Ialsogotcreditfrom myfamily tocontinuetraining."
     "Ihadtotakeoutloanstopayfor rentandmaterials.'       I

     "Iwasneverpaid,andasaresultIhavetoborrowatahighratetokeepmybusinessgoing.I'

0    'Y exhaustedmy savings. Iborrowed heavily tofinance the course. Trainingproviders were
    losing hope because of the long delays.
Cash flow:

0   IYt messed up my projections. I had deficits. Some smaller training providers had to close
    their businesses.

0   'Tt affected myfinancial stability and cashjlow."


0   "The business could not expand and there were many delays inpaying the bills."
Timeandtravel cost:
    'Thad to spend time and money to keep traveling to Nairobi."

0   !!A lot of time was wasted away from the business while chasing thepayments, the cost of
    borrowing moneyfrom other sources. Eventually the'trainingbusiness collapsed.

    "The trips to Nairobi tofollow up onpayments werefrustrating due to time and money spent
    qn transport and accommodation.'   I

Low morale:

D   "It affected my interest and enthusiasm in theprogram."

D   "It created a bad relationship withpart-time teachers.'I


B   'Y was demoralized. I lost money because training wasprovided and very littlepayment was
    received."

D   "Idecidedtoendtrainingduetonon-paymentandwentbacktoapprenticeships.             ' I

                                                19


 5.8         The ICRreports that inMarch 1999,whentheprojectwas under the control
 of the Office o fthe President, five staff inthat office were charged with attempted fraud
 after they triedto divert project fbnds into an account inthe name o f a fake training
provider. This attempt was intercepted by the Central Bank and all project funds were
 frozen for ninemonths. Besides damaging the credibility o f the project, the suspension
 o f disbursementscaused further delays becauseo f the budget-year delay intransferring
project funds to the MLHRD,which took over management o fthe project.

,5.9         An in-depthreview o fMSETTP systems andprocessesconducted inJune
2002 byPrice Waterhouse Coopers found both strengths andweaknesses. The strengths
included highlevels o f compliance with operational andprocurement processes. The
weaknesseswere the delayed payments, weaknesses inthe MIS systems, and lack o f
transparency inthe claims settling process (e.g., apparent selective payments). l5


6.       Ratings

6.1      Outcome. The overall objective o f the MSETTP -- enhancing entrepreneurial
development and increasing employment inthe informal sector -- was highlyrelevant to
Kenya's development needs at the time. An impressive number o fMSEs received
training under the VTP, a notable achievement. Butthe ability o fthe trainees to take
advantage o f their newly-acquired skills was limitedby infrastructureand financing
constraints that could have beenreducedifthe other components hadbeen successfblly
implemented. The long-run impact o f the project on markets for training services appears
to havebeenmodest, as many training providers returned to their previous activities once
the VTP subsidies ended. The delays inimplementation andthe excess subsidyprovided
underthe VTP resulted inlow cost-effectiveness, so that the efficiency o fthe project is
rated negligible. Taking into account the relevance, efficacy, andefficiency o f each o f the
three project objectives (Table l ) , overall project outcome i s rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

6.2      InstitutionalDevelopment Impact. The projectput inplace a monitoring and
evaluation systemthat was well ahead o fmost similar projects at the time, producing
semi-annual and annual reports of good quality. It also tested a new instrument --
training vouchers -- that, ifbetter implemented, could be usedto extendthe coverage o f
business development services to MSEs. However, the project's contribution to capacity
and governance inthe organizations involved inthe project (government ministries, Jua
Kali Associations, the NationalFederation o fJua Kali Associations, andthe National
Association o fTechnology Transfer andTraining) was minimal. Indeed, the project was
plagued by allegations o f corruption, underminingthe reputation o fthese organizations.
The InstitutionalDevelopment Impact o fthe project is therefore rated as Modest.




15. PriceWaterhouseCoopers (2002). "The World Bank -- Kenya: In-DepthReview o f MSETTPwith
SpecialFocusonvoucher TrainingProgrammes." November.

                                              20


Table 1: Ratings for Project Objectives

Objectives                        ReIevance         Efficacy          Efficiency
 Developand implementpoliciesto   High              Negligible        Not Applicable
establishan enabling environment
for entrepreneurialdevelopment
Provideaccessto skill trainingand Substantial       Substantial       Negligible
appropriatetechnologyfor MSEs,
andfacilitate technological
innovationin the MSE sector
Improvethe operationaland         High              Modest            Not Applicable
managerialcapacityof institutions
and programsthat support the
sector's development
Overall ratings                   High              Modest            Negligible



6.3      Sustainability. For those trainees andtraining providers that benefited from the
VTP, the sustainabilityo fbenefits i s likely. However, since the market development
impact o f the project on markets for training services was modest, the sustainabilityo f
increased training provided under the project i s unlikely. Onbalance, the sustainability
o fthe project i s rated Unlikely.

6.4      Bank Performance. Quality at entry was ratedunsatisfactory due to insufficient
knowledge o fthe training market into which the VTP introduced subsidized services, and
insufficient clarity as to the management structure and governance o f the project. In
addition, the Bank seemedto ignore the concerns o fthe broader donor community in
Kenyaat the time. The poor quality o f entry hadmajor implications for project
effectiveness and implementation. Bank staffmade a very strong effort to refocus the
project in 1997,andtested an innovative approach to buildingmarkets for business
development services that was emerging inthe donor community. They also sharedthe
knowledge gained duringand after the project, bothwithin and outside the Bank.
Although the Bank's project supervision improved, it was unable to raise project outcome
into the satisfactory range. Therefore, overall BankPerformance must be saidto have
beenmoderatelyunsatisfactory. Since that ratingcategory is not available at this time,
BankPerformance isratedUnsatisfactory.

6.5      Borrower Performance. The project suffered from shifting management among
four Ministries, delays ineffectiveness andimplementation, attempted fraud inthe Office
o f the President, alleged corruption associatedwith the allocation andreimbursemento f
vouchers to VTP participants, and delays inpayments to trainingproviders and allocating
agents. The Government's failure to fulfill all conditions relating to the enabling
environment was the main factor that led to the cancellationo f the infrastructure
component andthe partial implementationo fthe technology component. Overall,
Borrower performance was Unsatisfactory.

                                              21


 7.      Lessons

 7.1     Understandthe market. The performance o ftheproject showed the importance
 o f understanding the conditions inthe market before designingan intervention -- one o f
 the guidingprinciples o f the market development approach to business development
 services. The nature o f market failures (ifany) should guide the decisionwhether to
 intervene at all, andifso, whether to intervene on the supply side or the demand side o f
 the market. Existingproviders o f services andthe types and quality o f services they offer
 should beidentified-- including "hidden" service deliverymechanisms that are informal
 or bundled with other products or services. Without a clear understanding o f existing
 BDSmarkets,interventions are likely to bemoredistortionarythandevelopmental, and
 may displace existingproviders inthe market. Market assessments shouldbe carried out
 as part o fthe economic and sector work that underpins project design.

 7.2     Understandinstitutionalconstraints. Institutions also shouldbe assessed
 before the project i s designed. In the MSETTP, project implementation was handicapped
by a lack of capacity inthe Ministries, apoor systemo fcontrolo ffunds, governance
 issues inthe Jua Kali organizations, and unclear relationships betweenthem and the
 Government. Similar to the necessity o f a market assessment, an institutional assessment
 should be done prior to project design to identifythese issues.

7.3      Choosethe least-costintervention. Once the market failure has beenidentified,
altemative instruments to remove or compensate for the market failure should be
identified, andthe least-cost method chosen. For example, ifMSE demand is constrained
by a lack ofknowledgeo fthe benefitso fupgradedskills, possible interventionscould
include the provisiono f informationthrough advertisingor networking with other MSEs,
or subsidizing the initialpurchase o ftraining. The project could have stimulatedMSE
interest intraining usinga lower-cost methodthanvouchers.

7.4     Besparingwith the subsidy. Itis important not to over-subsidize the service,
bothto avoid distorting markets and to limit the incentive for corruption. In the long run,
subsidies arejustified for goods or services that havepublic good characteristics; the
subsidy should reflect the social benefit (externality) associated with consuming the
service, not the private benefit. Inthe short run, a higher subsidy may bejustified to spur
marketdevelopment. However, the subsidyrate is often chosen "out ofthe air", andit is
easy to over-subsidize. Large subsidies can under-cut existingproviders that are
attempting to sell services on a commercial basis, can create expectations on the part o f
beneficiaries that services shouldbe andwill be subsidized inthe long run, can inhibit
innovationinlow-cost service delivery mechanisms, andcreate incentives for a variety o f
players to take their "slice o fthe pie". None o fthese results are favorable to the
development of sustainable markets for commercially-provided services.

7.5     Don'tmakethe subsidythe centerpieceof the project. There are likelyto be
manyfactors that restrict MSEs fi-om upgradingtheir skills, puttingthem to use, and
reapingthe benefitinterms o f improved enterprise performance. It i s important to
operate inseveral areas, limitingthe importance o f the transactional subsidy andreducing

                                              22

other constraints -- infiastructure, financing, andproduct demand-- that may reduce the
project's impact.

7.6     Favor privatesector management. Based on the experience with public sector
management o fMSEprojects, the current generation o fthese projects tends to use private
sector firms or NGOsto manage project implementationandfunds. Clear performance
indicators and incentives should be established.

7.7     Allow time to learnfrom the pilotphase. The VTP was aninnovative and
therefore high-riskprogram. Such a projectneeds to bepiloted on a small scale before
being scaled up to the national levelwith largenumbers o fplayers (and funds) involved.
The testing phase should be long enough to get management and governance issuesright
and to determine the appropriate amount o f subsidy.

                                            23


                                       Bibliography



Central Bureau o f Statistics (1999). "National Micro and Small Enterprise Baseline
        Survey." Nairobi, Kenya.
Christy, RalphD.andJeffkey C. Fine(2004). "Overview o f Business Management
        Assistance andLinkage Strategies: East African Experiences." ProVenEx Fund,
        Rockefeller Foundation, August.
Committeeo f Donor Agencies for Small Enterprise Development (2001). "Guiding
        Principles for Business Development Services for Small Enterprises." February.
Kenya IndustrialResearch andDevelopmentInstitute(2002). "Report on Tracer Study:
        Technology and Business Development Services Component, MSETTP."
        December.
Phillips,DavidA. (2003). "Development Impact Study ofthe Training andBusiness
       Development Services Voucher Program." Prepared for World Bank Africa
       RegionPrivate Sector Group, May 16.
Phillips,DavidA. andWilliam F. Steel (2003). "Evaluating the Development Impact o f
       Demand-SideInterventionsfor BDS Markets: KenyaVoucher Program." Small
       Enterprise Development (14:4), December.
Price Waterhouse Coopers (2002). "The World Bank -- Kenya: In-DepthReview o f
       MSETTP with Special Focus on voucher Training ProgrammeProcesses -- Field
       Report." June.
Price Waterhouse Coopers (2002). "The World Bank -- Kenya: In-Depth Review o f
       MSETTPwith Special Focus onvoucher Training Programmes." November.
Project Coordination Office, Ministryo f Labour and HumanResource Development
       (2002). "Final Project ImplementationCompletionReport     -- IDA Credit 2596-
       KE." December 31.
Riley, Thyra A. andWilliam F. Steel (date?). "Kenya Voucher Programfor Training and
       Business Development Services." Africa RegionPrivate Sector Group.
Venture Support Consortium(2001). "Final Report for Tracer Study for Voucher
       Training Programme Phase One." December 19.


                                                       25                                            Annex A


 Annex A. BasicData Sheet

 KENYAMICRO ~RlAlLL       AND             ENTERPRISE         TRAININGAND TECHNOLOGY
 PROJECT(CREDIT 2596-KE)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                     Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
 IDA Credit                                           21.83                  11.40                  52.0
GovernmenVJIK.4                                        2.40                   0                     0.0
Cancellation                                                                 7.26                   0.0
Total projectcost                                     24.23                  11.40                  47.0

CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements(US$ million)
                               FY94     FY95   FY96      FY97    FY98        FY99    FYOO    FYOI      FY02   FY03 FY04
Appraisal estimate              0.0     1.0      3.6      7.5     11.7       15.3    18.9    21.8      21.8   21.8  21.8
Actual                          0.0     0.2      1.8      2.5      3.1        4.5     5.3     6.3       9.2   11.4  11.3
Actual as % of estimate         0.0     20.0    50.0     33.3     26.5       29.4    28.0     28.9     42.2   52.3  51.8
Date of finaldisbursement: December IO, 2003

ProjectDates
                                                            Original                          Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                                                                       July 20, 1992
Appraisal                                                                                  May 25,1993
Board approval                                                                             April 5, 1994
Effectiveness                                            May25, 1994                     November 28, 1994
Mid-TermReview                                          January 1, 1999
Closingdate                                            December31,2001                   December 31,2002


StaffInmts(staffweeks)
                                                             ActuaILatest Estimate
                                            N" Staff weeks                             ussusw'ooo~
IdentificationIPreparation                        nla                                      nla
AppraisalINegotiation                             nla                                      nla
Supervision                                       nla                                    1222.4
ICR                                               nla                                      nla
Total                                            478.7                                   1224.4




 Identification/         April 30, 1993     5      Education Specialist (4), Economist
 Preparation


 Appraisal/              January 1, 1994    5      Education Specialist (4), Economist
 Negotiation
  Supervision

                                              26                                           Annex A


                                                                                   '
                        Date       No.of                                            Performance rating
                    (monthbear)   persons     Specializations                  Implementation Development
                                                                                   status      objectives
 Supervision 1     May 24, 1994      5    Education Specialist (3), Information      S              S
                                          Management Specialist, Economist
Supervision 2    February 17, 1995   6      Sr. Financial Audit Advisor, Sr.         S              S
                                              Procurement Specialist, Sr.
                                              Implementation Specialist,
                                          Education Specialist (2), Economist
Supervision 3      July29, 1995      4        Traininmuman Resource                  S
                                          Specialist, Training FundSpecialist,
                                            Education Specialist, Economist
Supervision 4    November 8, 1995    6        Traininmuman Resource                  U
                                          Specialist, Training FundSpecialist,
                                            ImplementatiodProc Specialist,
                                           Education Specialist, Economist
Supervision 5     March 22, 1.996    6        Trainingmuman Resource                 U              S
                                            Specialist, Financial Specialist,
                                            ImplementationlProc Specialist,
                                             Voucher ProgramSpecialist,
                                          Education Specialist, Economist (2)
Supervision 6      July 18, 1996    7         Traininmuman Resource                  S              S
                                           Specialist, Implementatioflroc
                                           Specialist, Education Specialist,
                                             Training Strategy Specialist,
                                          Financial Specialist, Participatory
                                           Approach Specialist, Economist
Supervision 7    February 17, 1997  10   Technical Specialist Informal Sector,       S              S
                                               Private Sector Specialist,
                                         Implementation Specialisffhchitect,
                                          Disbursements, HumanResources
                                            Economist, Human Resources
                                             AdvisorNocational Training
                                           Specialist, Education Specialist,
                                             Economistkformal Sector
                                            Specialist, Financial Specialist,
                                           HumanDevelopment Economist
Supervision 8   November 19, 1997   7        Private Sector Specialist (2),          S              S
                                         Disbursements, Education Specialist,
                                             EconomisffInformal Sector
                                          Specialist, Procurement Specialist,
                                               Private Sector Specialist
Supervision 9     July 17, 1998     4       Team Leader, Lead Specialist,            S              S
                                          Education Specialist, Procurement
                                                       Specialist
Supervision 10  February 16, 1999  4        Team Leader, Lead Specialist,
                                          Education Specialist, Procurement
                                                       Specialist
Supervision 11    M a y 24, 1999   2     Task Manager, Education Specialist         S              S
Supervision 12   August 15,2000    2     Task Team Leader, Lead Specialist          S              S
Supervision 13   March 4,2001      3       Task Team Leader, Consultant             U              S
Supervision 14   April 11,2002     3       Advisor, Education Consultant,           S              S
                                               Procurement Specialist
Supervision 15   October 25,2002   4         Lead Specialist, Consultant,           S              S
                                          Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                               Management Specialist

                                                     27                                          Annex A


~~~       ~       ~~     ~     ~~      ~         ~
                                                                                          Performance rating

                       (montwyear)
                           Date         persons
                                        No. of        Specializations represented     ImplementationDevelopment
                                                                                         status      objectives
   ICR
                     February 28,2003       6        Senior Advisor, Private Sector        S              S
                                                    Specialist, EducationSpecialist,
                                                   Consultant, Procurement Specialist,
                                                       Disbursement Specialist
PerformanceRating: S:Satisfactory:U:Unsatisfactory


                                              29                                 Annex B


 Annex B. BorrowerComments

 InFebruary-March2005, OEDconductedanassessmentoftheaboveprojectwhich
 was concludedinthe year.2002.

 After a thorough study o fthe draft PPARreport, we have the following comments to
make.

There seems to exist great disparitiesbetween the findings o fthe PPARAND ICR, which
were independently carriedout by the samebank. (Principal ratingspage v)

IntheprefaceParathree `Themissionappreciatedthecourtesiesandlogisticalsupport
givenby the Ministry o f Labour andHumanResource Development" this contradics the
sentiments expressedinAnnex D under TBsample that TBs obtained through MLHRD
staffwould tend to introduce positive bias. The MLHRDstaff only assisted inidentifyrng
possibleTPs who intern assistedthe team incontactingthe beneficiaries. The interviews
were arranged and conducted without interference from the MLHRDstaff.

The summary o fbeneficiaries andTPs responseson pages 34- 42 and the achievement
o f outcomes under item4 on pages 7-11seems to suggest a more positive rating thanthat
giveninthe report.

Inthe summaryonPageix, under Para4, itis statedthat "Allegations of corruption
discouraged some qualiJed trainersfrom participating in theprogramme" the actual
positionis that recruitment o f Training providers andAllocation Agencies was done
through competitive bidding.A reasonable number o fprominent Public institutions such
as Technical Training Institutes, Youth polytechnics, National Polytechnics, The Nairobi
University, Jomo Kenyattauniversity o f Agriculture andTechnology and Egerton
University participatedalongside Private Institutions, Consultancies andJua Kali Craft
workers. However, there were a few credible institutions that didnot participateinthe
project either because they didnot apply or becausethey didnot provide certainrelevant
informationrequiredto meet the selection criteria.

Inthe samesummery, para6, under InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact, itis statedthat``
Project contribution to improved governance in the organizations involved in theproject
was minimal ". The actual position i s that as a result o fthe MSETTPintervention, the
Government o f Kenyarevamped the then Directorate o fApplied Technology leadingto
establishment o f field offices (DATOsPATOs) countrywide to assist inimplementation
o fthe project. The Directorateof Applied Technology has now beenconverted into a full
fledged Department o fMicro and Small Enterprise Development while the field offices
are still functional carryingout activities similar to those inthe MSETTP Project.
Experiences from the MSETTP project contributedgreatly inpreparationo f the recently
approved sessional paper on MSE development. The Government i s now inthe process
o f drafting an MSEbill to regulate the sector.

                                              30                                  Annex B


The payment irregularitiesand alleged cases ofcorruptionon Page 17 o fthe report, could
be true. It should however be notedthat these mainly occurred at the level of Private
Sector participants, ie, the AAs, the TPs andthe Beneficiaries. Since the design of the
Projectprovided for this kindof implementationarrangement, it shouldbe taken as a
lesson learnt that such arrangement for aproject o fthis magnitude was difficult to
control.

OnPage 15 para4.27 -The 54 SACCOs were formed at the endterm o fthe Project
between 2000 and 2002. It takes a considerable amount o f time for the MSEs to mobilize
savings and start credit operations. Inour view the 13 SACCOs that had started
operations represented a good startingtrend. Inany case it shouldbe appreciated that by
the close ofthe Project, 79 officials from 16 SACCOs hadgone through a capacity
buildingprocess funded bythe Project.

On lessons learnt we concur except item 7.6 where we are yet to learn from the ongoing
MSECP project.

Our concluding comment is that the MSTETTP Voucher Trainingprogrammewas anew
venture to all the players. Since the report seems to suggest a reasonable amount o f good
achievements, the overall result shouldhave been outcome -satisfactory and
sustainability - likely.

42
H




      0  e .




i
m


                                                  33                                       Annex D


Annex D. OED Survey of TrainingBeneficiariesand Training
Providers
         DuringtheFebruary - March2005 mission, OED conducted a surveyoftraining
beneficiaries (TBs) and training providers (TPs) that participated inthe VTP. This annex
describes the methodology andresults o fthe survey.

Sample Selection

         Repeated effortswere made to obtain the database of TBs andTPs that
participatedinthe MSETTP from the MLHRD,inorder to draw random samples o fTBs
and TPs from the database. However, the data was not made available. Instead, various
other methods were usedto find samples of TBs andTPs.

         TP sample. Sectoral directories ofthe 745 TPs that hadbeenapproved to
participate inthe VTP were obtained. Fromthose directories, a sample o f 60 TPs inthe
five study regions were chosenbypicking odd-numbered TPs inthose regions. An
additional 60 TPs were selected inthe same way from sectors and regions with large
numbers o f TPs. For smaller sectors and regions, the TPs previously skippedwere added
to the sample.

        Inadditionto the 120TPs selectedfromthe sectoral directories, other TPswere
found from:

    0   the NATTET membership list.
    0   the list of TPs interviewedinaprevious study.I6
    0   referrals provided ina meetingo f JKA representatives heldprior to the mission.
    0   referrals from MLHRDstaff, PATOs andDATOs.
    0   referrals from other TPs.
    0   a list compliedbyKIRDI, the institution incharge o fthe technology and BDS
        component o f the MSETTP.

        Some ofthe TPs could not be located, were unavailableduringthe short mission
period, or were unwillingto be interviewed. Some TPs who were not invitedshowed up
at the interview. Many o fthese came because they had a complaint or hopedto receive
payments due. The distribution according to selection methodis shownbelow.




16. DavidPhillips, "Development Impact Study o fthe Training and Business Development Services
Voucher Program", M a y 16,2003.

                                              34                                  Annex D



 TP SamDle SelectionMethod                                                   YOof samDle

 Random sample from sectoral directories                                         24%
 Additional random sample from sectoral directories                              10%
 Referrals from MLHRDstaff, PATOs andDATOs                                       33%
 Referrals from other MSETTPparticipants ( U s , J U S ,TPs,                     27%
 NATTET, KIRDI)
D.Phillips study                                                                  4%
 Walk-ins                                                                         3%
 Total                                                                           100%


        TB sample. An initial attempt was made to randomlyselect TBs from those
listedindirectories o f AAs, but little contact information was available. Instead, TBs
were obtained through their respective A A s andTPs. This would tendto introduce a
positive bias inthe responsesto some questions, e.g., onthe quality or usefulness o f the
program. Inaddition, a convenience sample was obtained by interviewing church
members as they left church on a Sunday (the church hadbeenthe location o f training
courses).

        The distribution of TBs surveyed according to selectionmethod is shownbelow.

TB Sample SelectionMethod                                                    % ofsample

Referrals from A A s and TPs                                                     53%
Referrals from MLHRD                                                             26%
Referrals from business associations                                              5%
Church sample                                                                    13%
Walk-ins                                                                          3%
Total                                                                           100%


        Interviewmethod. Questionnaires were administered face-to-face bya team o f
Bankstaffandlocalconsultants. Most interviews took place at the facilities oflargerTPs
(e.g., polytechnic institutes) or inMLHRDoffices. Interviews were confidential (TBs
were interviewedwithout the presence o fMLHRDstaff or TPs).

Regiona1distribution

        Intotal, 182TBsand107TPswereinterviewedinfiveregions: GreaterNairobi
(including Nairobi, Athi River, Thika, andKiambu), Greater Kisumu(including Kisumu,
Siaya, and Vihiga), Machakos, Mombasa (including Mombasa andMalindi), andNakuru.
The distributionofTBs andTPsbyregioni s shownbelow.

                                 35                 Annex D


Region                               TBs          TPs

Greater Nairobi                       67          20
Greater Kisumu                        27          50
Machakos                              30          20
Mombasa                               41           8
NaklXll                               17           9
Total                                182          107


TB Responses to Key Questions

1.     Gender of owner

Male                                    75  41%
Female                                  99  54%
N o answerhot applicable                8    4%
Total                                  182  100%


2.     Ownership

Sole proprietorship                    122  67%
Family owned                            10   5%
NGO/women's group                      22   12%
Employedby other                        8   4%
N o answerhot applicable               20   11%
Total                                  182  100%

                                        36                              Annex D




3,     Mainproducts and services

Management                                           10       5%
Metalproducts                                         8       4%
Motor vehicle                                         9        5%
Agro processing                                      25       13%
Building                                              2        1%
Chemical                                             16       8%
Electrkals/electric                                  13       7%
Leatherworks                                          1        1Yo
Textiles                                             69       37%
Woodworking                                           2        1Yo
Handicrafts                                           4       2%
Other                                                26       14%
N o answerhot applicable                              4       2%
Total                                               189       100%


4.     Didyou take anytraining coursesor apprenticeships beforethe VTP?

No                                                   89       49%
Yes                                                  91       50%
N o answerhot applicable                              2       1%
Total                                               182       100%


5.     Ifnot, whynot?

Not available                                        11       12%
Not usefWrelevant                                     5       5%
Not convenient/ no time                               1       1%
Too expensive                                       48        51%
Other                                                17       18%
N o answerhot applicable                            12        13%
Total                                               94       100%

                                         37                                 Annex D


6.      Ifyes, what type oftraining?

Formalcourse                                         47        57%
Apprenticeship                                       22        27%
Both                                                  9        11%
Other                                                 9        11%
Total                                                83       100%


7.      Ifyes, whoprovidedthetraining?

Privateprovider                                      62        74%
Government/donor program                             14        17%
Another firm insector                                 4        5%
Other                                                 4        5%
Total                                                84       100%


8.      How didyou leam about the VTP?

Froma TP                                             47        26%
From an AA or JKA                                    64        36%
From another firm                                     4        2%
From an advertisement                                13        7%
Word o fmouth                                        35       20%
Other                                                16        9%
Total                                               179       100%


9.     Didthe TP advance your voucher contributionor offer to payit for you?

No                                                  159       87%
Yes                                                 21         12%
No answerhot applicable                              2         1%
Total                                               182       100%


10.    Didyou know o fother TPs that paidthe TB contribution onbehalfo ftheir
clients?

No                                                  149       82%
Yes                                                 21        12%
No answer/not applicable                            12         7%
Total                                               182       100%

                                           38                                  Annex D


11.    How would you rate the relevance o f the training received under the VTP to your
business?

Excellent                                                 67      37%
Good                                                      73      40%
Fair                                                      16       9%
Poor                                                      7        4%
Other (?)                                                 13       7%
No answerhot applicable                                   9        5%
Total                                                    182      100%


12.    How would you rate the quality o f this training received under the VTP?

Excellent                                                 76      42%
Good                                                      69      38%
Fair                                                      15       8%
Poor                                                      5        3%
Other (?)                                                 19      10%
No answerhot applicable                                   8       4%
Total                                                    182      100%


13.    Didyoureceive asecondvoucher for a subsequenttraining course?

No                                                       160      88%
Yes                                                      12       7%
No answerhot applicable                                   9       5%
Total                                                    181      100%


14.   Didyoumakeany changes inyour business as aresult ofthetraining?

No                                                       32       18%
Yes                                                      141      77%
No answerhot applicable                                   9       5%
Total                                                    182     100%

                                           39                     Annex D


15.    Ifno, whynot?

Material not relevant to mybusiness                    3    10%
Too difficult to implement                             1    3%
Too costly to implement                                11  38%
Other                                                  3    10%
No answerhot applicable                                11  38%
Total                                                 29   100%


16.    Ifyes, what changed?

Improvedthe quality o fmyproducthervice               78   55%
Introduced a new product or service                   71   50%
Increased sales                                       66   47%
Foundnew markets                                      58   41%
Investedinnew equipment                               34   24%
Hadeasier access to credit                            20   14%
Changesproduct design                                 40   28%
Changed method o fproduction                          37   26%
Increased employment                                  39   28%
Changed marketing strategy                            41   29%
Keptbetter records/accounts                           45   32%
Increased interactionwith other businesses            45   32%
Other                                                 34   24%
Total                                                 141  100%


17.    Have you taken any other training since the VTP?

N o                                                   119  65%
Yes                                                   59   32%
N o answerhot amlicable                               4    2%
Total                                                 182  100%


18.   Ifno, whynot?

Not available                                         12   12%
Not usefulhelevant                                    12   12%
Not convenient/ no time                               8    8%
Too expensive                                         56   55%
Other                                                 14   14%
Total                                                 102  100%

                                           40                                   Annex D


 19.    Ifyes, what type oftraining?

Formal course                                             33      60%
Apprenticeship                                             8      15%
 Other                                                     2      4%
N o answerhot applicable                                  12      22%
Total                                                     55      100%



 20.    Ifyes, who providedthe training?

PrivateDrovider                                           25      42%
Government/donor program                                  19      32%
Another firm insector                                      2      3%
Other                                                      1      2%
N o answerhot applicable                                  12      20%
Total                                                     59      100%



21.     Pleaserate the quality andusefulness of this training compared to what you
receivedunderthe VTP.

Better                                                    22      41%
Worse                                                      8      15%
Same                                                      12      22%
No answerhot applicable                                   12      22%
Total                                                     54     100%



TP Responses to Key Questions

1.      Ownership

Individual                                               68       68%
Private firm                                              13      13%
Public institutelother                                    17      17%
NGO                                                       2       2%
Total                                                    100     100%


2.     Didyouprovide trainingbeforethe VTP?

No                                                        8       7%
Yes                                                      99      93%
Total                                                    107     100%

                                           41                            Annex D


3.      Ifyes, howwas thetrainingprovided?

Formal course                                           41      42%
Apprenticeship                                          36      37%
Both                                                    21      21%
Total                                                   98      100%


4.     Why didyou get involvedwith the VTP?

Opportunity to use my business to sell another          20      24%
service
Opportunityto become a dedicated training                       42%
                                           I            35
providedeamtraining income
To promote my other business                            26      31%
Other                                                   2        2%
Total                                                   83      100%


5.     How did you find students?

AA, JKA, or DATOPATO                                    72      49%
Advertising/word of mouth
          -                                             45      30%
Active recruiting                                       19      13%
Other                                                   10       7%
No answerhot amlicable                                  2        1%
Total                                                  148      100%



6.     What did you do with the fees that you earned from the vouchers?

Used to improve mytrainingbusiness                     57       38%
Used to invest inmy other business                     40       26%
Used for personal expenses                             29       19%
Other                                                   6        4%
No answerhot amlicable                                 20       13%
Total                                                  152      100%



7.    Didyou eventuallyreceivepayment for all ofthe vouchers?

No                                                     33       31%
Yes                                                    67       63%
No answednot amlicable                                  6       6%
Total                                                  106     100%

                                      42                      Annex D


8.    Didthe waitingperiodaffectyour business?

N o                                                 10  10%
Yes                                                 87  84%
No answerhot applicable                             6   6Yo
Total                                              103  100%


9.    Didyou continueto providetraining after the VTP?

No                                                  10  9%
Yes                                                 97  91%
Total                                              107  100%


10.   Ifyes, howwasthetrainingprovided?

Formal course                                       27  29%
Apprenticeship                                      51  55%
Both                                                15  16%
Total                                               93  100%

