CREDIT NUMER 2596 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Hicro and Small Enterprise Training and Technology Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            "                  1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2596 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         L o                 -   1994, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a
letter, dated March 8, 1994, describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the
Borrower's informal sector (hereinafter referred to as "the
Program");
(B)   the Borrower has declared its commitment       to  the
execution of the Program and, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   the Project has been designed for the benefit of the
Jua Kali sector (as hereinafter defined), and will be carried out by
the Borrower acting through its Ministry of Research, Technical
Training and Technology (MRTT&T), and with the assistance of the Jua
Kali Federation, a private organization registered under the laws of
the Borrower (the Federation), and Jua Kali Associations (Jua Kali
Associations), associations also registered under the laws of the
Borrower;
(D)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association an
Implementation Plan and Procedures Manual (the Manual), giving
details   of   proposed   organizational  arrangements   for   the
implementation of the Project, including the roles and functions of
the various persons and entities involved in the implementation of
the Project, their reporting obligations and other administrative
procedures, and a proposed work plan and budget estimates for the
forthcoming fiscal year;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions   applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "DAT" means the Directorate of Applied Technology of
MRTT&T;
(b)   "Industrial Training Levy Fund" means the Industrial
Training Levy Fund established under the Borrower's Industrial
Training Act;
(c)   "Jua Kali", in relation to enterprises, means micro- and
small-enterprises specializing in the manufacture of products and
providing productive services;
(d)   "Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund" means the Jua Kali
Infrastructure Fund referred to in paragraph 5 (b) (ii) of Schedule
4 to this Agreement;
(e)   "Jua Kali Operational    Fund" means   the  Jua Kali
Operational Fund referred to in paragraph 5 (b) (i) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
(f)   "micro-enterprise" means an enterprise involving not
more than nine employees;
(g)   "participating agreement" means the agreement referred
to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the participating agreement;
(h)   "PDU" means the Planning and Development Unit of HRTT&T;
(i)   "Project Implementation Framework Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation


﻿-3-
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Implementation Framework
Agreement;
(j)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two letters of agreement, dated July 29, 1992 and
February 8, 1993, between the Borrower and the Association;
(k)   "small-enterprise" means an enterprise involving not
less than ten and not more than forty-nine employees; and
(1)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of


﻿-4-
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2004 and ending March 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,


﻿-5-
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, s%bsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its comiitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MRTT&T with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-6-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Manual, and the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall conclude an agreement
with the Federation (hereinafter referred to as the Project
Implementation Framework Agreement), on such terms and conditions as
shall be acceptable to the Association, giving details of:
(i)    the role and responsibilities of the Federation,
and its reporting and other obligations, under
the Project;
(ii)    the criteria, and other terms and conditions,
for the selection of beneficiaries thereunder;
and
(iii)    the nature and extent of the involvement of Jua
Kali Associations in the implementation of the
Project, including any provisions for cost
recovery or other contributory arrangements.
(b)   Prior to the commencement of any activity involving a
Jua Kali Association under the Project, the Borrower shall require
the Jua Kali Association to subacribe to an agreement (hereinafter
referred to as a participating agreement), giving details of the
nature and scope of such activity, and the role and responsibilities
of the Jua Kali Association thereunder, and of any specific
financial or other contribution required on the part of the Jua Kali
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿-7-
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year, as
well as the records and accounts relating to the
Industrial Training Levy Fund, the Jua Kali
Infrastructure Fund and the Jua Kali Operational
Fund, audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain,  or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts


﻿- 8 -
and    other   documents)    evidencing   such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Borrower has failed to carry out the Program, or a
significant part thereof;
(b)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(c)   the Federation shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Implementation Framework Agreement;
(d)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
Lhall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Federation
or any Jua Kali Association will be able to perform obligations
arising under or out of the Project Implementation Framework
Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Federation or any of the Jua Kali Associations involved in
the implementation of an activity under the Project, or for the
suspension of their operations.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has obtained Cabinet approval for the
establishment of the training fund under Part A of the Project;
(b)   the Project Implementation Framework Agreement has been
duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Federation;
(c)   the Borrower has taken steps to provide all units of
MRTT&T involved in the implementation of the Project with the staff
resources that they need to discharge their obligations under this
Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower has recruited auditors to audit the records
and accounts of the Industrial Training Levy Fund for fiscal year
1993, and a copy of the report of such audit (including recommended
remedies) has been transmitted to the Association for review and
comments.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30007
Nairobi
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANCE                   22921
Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By/S         ~~~~f'9                          '
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/Sa4 -O S                    -(      aF
*f    Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 2.02 (a))
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            1,800,000        100% of foreign
construction                                expenditures and
80Z of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment and                220,000        100%
furniture
(3) Vehicles                      80,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Consultants'               2,600,000        100%
services
(5) Training and               9,300,000        95% of local
studies (other                              expenditures and
than consultants'                           100% of foreign
services)                                   expenditures
(6) Operating costs            1,400,000        80%


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                300,000        Amounts d-.te
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
TOTAL                15,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term   "operating costs" means the    incremental
operating costs arising under the Project on account of: (i) local
contractual staff salaries and allowances, (ii) maintenance of
vehicles, fuel and equipment, and (iii) office rent, supplies and
utilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments:
(a)   for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)   under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, unless draft legislation has been submitted to Parliament
to amend, update or supersede, as the case may be, the Registration
of Business Names Act, the Trade Licensing Act, the Local Government
Adoptive By-Laws (Building Order 1968), the Electric Power Act, as
well as the Vagrancy, Nuisance and Chiefs' Authority Acts.


﻿- 14 -
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and expenditures for local training
programs and operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
(Preamble, para. (B))
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance entrepreneurial
development in the private sector, and reduce constraints to
employment promotion and income enhancement in the micro and small
enterprise sector in the territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Training Fund
Establishment of a training fund to support:
(a)   a  demand-driven   voucher  program   to  be   jointly
implemented by MRTT&T, the Federation and Jua Kali Associations, to
pay for short-term skill upgrading courses and enterprise-based
training attachments for the benefit of entrepreneurs and artisans;
and
(b)   a supply-side training contract scheme involving public
and private sector training providers, to be selected on a
competitive basis, to provide a variety of training programs ranging
from enterprise-based skill upgrading to advanced tailor-made
courses.
Part B:     Technoloay Development and Pilot Infrastructure
1.    Establishment of a technology information, innovation and
research program to stimulate information exchange and innovation in
product development through assistance to a technology information
clearing function, technology study tours, marketing exhibitions,
and a small pilot program of adaptive technology research grants,
awarded on a competitive basis, to promote indigenous capacity for
research, design and comercialization of new products and
production technologies for the informal sector.
2.    Development of secure sites and services on*a pilot basis in
two cities (Hombasa and Kisumu) to provide Jua Kali Associations and
their members with legal and secure tenure to work sites and


﻿- 16 -
facilitate their access to appropriate infrastructure, including
water, sewerage, electricity, access roads, public toilets, refuse
collection facilities and drainage.
Part C:     Institutional Development
1.    Development of an implementation strategy with substantial
beneficiary participation, including: (a) an organizational review
of 1RTT&T and the Federation, and preparation of a staff redeploy-
ment and development plan required for Project implementation, and
(b) training of HRTT&T staff and Jua Kali representatives in the
skills required for the effective management and supervision of the
Project.
2.    Development of a national training strategy, including:
(a)   preparation  of  an  action  plan based   on: (i) an
assessment  of   the  Industrial Training   Levy  Fund, including
recommendations designed to make the levy scheme both financially
sustainable and more responsive to the skill-upgrading needs of
productive sectors, and (ii) an evaluation of the trade test and
certification system designed to improve the standards and quality
of skills training, and attendant certification and legitimization;
(b)   completion of a policy review process for skills
training; and
(c)   on the basis of the action plan under subparagraph (a)
of this paragraph, development of a national training strategy,
embodying principles of relevance, quality and efficiency, and
financial sustainability, and giving details of future objectives,
organization and management, as well as financing and content of
future training schemes.
3.    Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to make
the training system more quality conscious, responsive to the needs
of the economy, demand-driven and financially sustainable.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
(Section 3.02)
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    (a)   Except as provided in Part C thereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(b)   For fixed price contracts,    the invitation   to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when the contract is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(c)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.
3.    Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in
paragraph 1 (a) above shall be exempted from preshipment price
inspection by third parties.


﻿- 18 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works,     up  to an   aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Miscellaneous supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, and equipment which need to be
compatible with existing units, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Small quantities of low-value equipment may be procured
through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each service contract, each contract for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more,
and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 3.01 (b))
Implementation Program
1.    (a)   Not later than Hay 31, 1995 and, thereafter, not later
than May 31 of each subsequent year during the implementation period
of the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall undertake, in
conjunction with representatives of the Federation and Jua Kali
Associations, a joint annual review of the Project or, in the case
of the review to be undertaken not later than May 31, 1998, a
midterm review, during which they shall exchange views generally on
all matters relating to the progress of the Project, and the
performance by the Borrower, the Federation and Jua Kali
Associations of their respective obligations arising under this
Agreement, the Project Implementation Framework Agreement or a
participating agreement, as the case may be; including, but not
limited to:
(i)    major policies in the sector and recurrent
financing levels;
(ii)    an assessment of the progress achieved under
each component of the Project;
(iii)    required   modifications   to    targets   and
strategies;
(iv)    preparation of future work plans and budgets;
(v)    progress reports submitted by MRTT&T and other
agencies responsible for the implementation of
the Project; and
(vi)    in the case of the midterm review,
(A)   an evaluation of overall progress and
implementation, having regard to the
overall objectives of the Project and the
Program;
(B)   an analysis of constraints and bottlenecks
arising out of sector policies and
regulatory framework;


﻿- 21 -
(C)   an assessment of progress achieved, and
changes needed, in the implementation of
training programs;
(D)   an assessment of progress achieved in the
development and utilization of work sites;
(E)   an assessment of progress achieved in the
provision of work site security to Jua
Kali operators; and
(F)   a review of the institutional constraints
and recommendations.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project; including: (i) a state-
ment of the achievements of the Project and actual expenditures for
the current fiscal year, and (ii) details of the proposed work plan
and budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, and of other issues to
be addressed during such review.
(c)   Following each such review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take, or assist the Federation
or the Jua Kali Associations in taking, any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of
the Project, or to implement, or assist the Federation or the Jua
Kali Associations in implementing, such other measures as may have
been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall cause PDU to liaise with other agencies
involved in the implementation of the Project to have semianual
progress reports prepared and submitted, not later than April 30 and
October 31 of each year, to the Association for review and comments.
3.    The Borrower shall assign responsibility for day-to-day
coordination of the Project to DAT, and for overall coordination
thereof to a Project Steering Committee, involving representatives
of MRTT&T, the Federation and the Jua Kali Associations.
4.    For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, the
beneficiaries thereunder shall be selected on the basis of


﻿- 22 -
predetermined selection criteria, and in accordance with terms and
conditions (including provisions for cost recovery) which shall be
acceptable to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that:
(a) occupants of work sites developed under Part B.2 of the
Project shall be required to pay an amount of rents and charges
adequate to reflect the actual costs of the sites and services
provided thereunder; and
(b) for purposes of channelling the proceeds of the rents and
charges referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph
(hereinafter referred to as the proceeds), two separate accounts
shall be opened and maintained as follows:
(i)    an operational account (hereinafter referred to
as Jua Kali Operational Fund), into which 15% of
the proceeds, or such other percentage thereof
as may be deemed appropriate, having regard to
the age of the work sites and other local
conditions, shall be deposited to be applied for
purposes of meeting management costs, and the
costs of maintenance and repairs; and
(ii)    a development account (hereinafter referred to
as Jua Kali Infrastructure Fund), into which the
balance of the proceeds shall be deposited to be
invested in short-term and medium-term securi-
ties, and applied, as needed, for purposes of
further development of Jua Kali sites, or for
the provision of credit facilities for the
purchase of tools and equipment by Jua Kali
operators.
6.    For the purposes of Part C.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall have the organizational review referred to therein completed
not later than December 31, 1994, and the proposed staff redeploy-
ment and development plan submitted to the Association for approval,
not later than June 30, 1995.


﻿- 23 -
7.    For the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall have:
(a)   the detailed action plan,    the assessment of the
Industrial Training Levy Fund, and the evaluation of the trade test
and certification system, completed not later than August 31, 1995;
and
(b)   the policy review process for skills training, and the
draft national training strategy, completed not later than
December 31, 1995.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
(Section 2.02 (b))
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) c   forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn amount    of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 26 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
F(J SECRET*RY


