GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
13054 - POL
Poland
Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project
Project Document
October 1 994
TLU
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warning. pollution of internati,onal waters,
destruction of biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band --provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 1 3054-POL
Poland
Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project
Project Document
October 1994






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.45522 = SDR 1.00 (Special Drawing Rights, As of July 31, 1994)
US$ 1.00 = NKr 7.425 (Norwegian Krone)
Polish Currency unit : Zloty (Zl)
March
1la8      199        1991       1992                 1994
US$1 = Zloty  4,000       9,500    11,100    13,630    17,000    22,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric and International Systems)
°C    :      Degree Celsius
Gcal         Gigacalorie (one million kilocalories)
GJ           Gigajoule (0.034 tons of coal equivalent or 109 joule)
kcal         Kilocalorie (4187 Joule)
kWh          Kilowatthour
kWe          Kilowatt electric
kWt          Kilowatt thermal (860 kcal/h)
Mt           Million tons
Mtce         Million tons of coal equivalent (0.65 Mtoe, or 29.3 PJ)
Mtoe         Million tons of oil equivalent (1.54 Mtce, or 45.1 PJ)
MWe          Megawatt electric (1,000 kilowatt)
MWt          Megawatt thermal (0.86 Gcal/h)
Nm3          Normal Cubic Meter
PJ           Petajoule (34,129 tons of coal equivalent or 1015 joule)
TJ           Terajoule (34.1 tons of coal equivalent or 1012 joule)
toe          Ton of oil equivalent (42.7 GJ)
TWh          Terawatthour (102 Wh)
CALORIFIC VALUES
Coal                      24.3 GJ per ton (0.8% sulfur; 10% ash)
Coke                      30.0 GJ per ton (0.4% sulfur; 10% ash)
Light Fuel Oil            41.0 GJ per ton (1% sulfur)
Natural Gas               34.3 MJ per Nm3
GLOBAL EMISSION RATES
Coal/Coke           :     92 kg of CO2 per GJ input
Light Fuel Oil            77 kg of CO2 per GJ input
Natural Gas               53 kg of CO2 per GJ input
RELATIVE GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL FACTORS
(on mass basis and for a 100-year time horizon)
Methane (CH4)              21 times the global warming of CO2






ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOS                      Bank Ochrony Srodowiska  SA  (Bank for Environmental
Protection)
CHP                      Combined Heat and Power Plant
C02                      Carbon Dioxide
CO                       Carbon Monoxide
DHE                      District Heating Enterprise
EcoFund                  Polish Debt-to-Environment Swap
EE Fund                  Energy Efficiency and Conservation Fund (GEF Project
Sub-component)
EIA                      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPC                      Engineer, Procure and Construct
ERT                      Emission Reduction Technology
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GEF                      Global Environmental Facility
GET                      Global Environmental Trust Fund
GHG                      Greenhouse Gases
HOB                      Heat-Only Boiler
FCCC                     Framework Convention on Climate Change
IPCC                     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IRR                      Internal Rate of Return
Jana Street              Location of Pilot Project - Boilerhouse belonging to
MPEC Krakow
KSCH                     Krakow Senior Citizens Home
LPAP                     Local Policy Advisory Panel
MoEPNRF                  Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources
and Forestry
MPEC Krakow              Municipal District Heating Enterprise of Krakow
National Fund            National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water
Management
NOx                      Nitrogen Oxides
OECD                     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PPA                      Project Preparation Advance
PUK                      Polytechnic University of Krakow
SDR                      Special Drawing Right
SIEP                     State Inspectorate for Environmental Protection
S02                      Sulfur Dioxide
STAP                     Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TAG                      Technical Advisory Group
UNCED                    United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
Warszawska Street        Location of Pilot Project - Boilerhouse belonging to PUK
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31






Part I: Project Summary






POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Grantee:           Global Environmental Facility
Countrte           Republic of Poland
Project Name:      Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project
Amount:            SDR17.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
TEDi~rmr           Grant from the Global Environmental Trust Fund
Cofinancier:       Kingdom of Norway
Additional
Grant Amount:      NKr7.425 million (US$1.0 million equivalent)
RecinienS:         Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
Beneficiaries:    Public and private owners of non-industrial boilers, and new
residential building owners
Imlementina
Agencv:            Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA
As;sociag
IRTD Proiect:      Environment Management Project (Loan 3190-POL, approved in
April 1990)
Proiect
Oblectives:        The project's objectives are: (a) to stimulate self-replicable
technological and institutional changes that would promote
coal-to-gas conversion in small and medium-size boilers and
induce more energy-efficient practices in the architectural
design and operation of new residential buildings; and (b) to
demonstrate interfuel substitution and improve the overall
energy efficiency throughout the heat supply chain, as a means
of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Poland on May/June 1993, and was
prepared by Messrs. Rachid Benmessaoud (Task Manager), Fran9ois Chapelle (Research Assistant), and
consultants Joseph Deringer (Architect Engineer), Harold Falkenberry (Boiler Engineer) and Bemd Kalkum
(District Heating Engineer). The appraisal mission included Messrs. Rolf Seirod (Environment Economist)
and Erik Sorensen (Energy Economist) representing the Govemment of the Kingdom of Norway. The
report was issued by the Energy and Environment Division (Bemard Monffort, Chief) of the Central Europe
Department (Kemal Dervis, Director).



Prolect
Descri2tion:      The  project  comprises  the  following  components:   (a)
investments in the conversion of small and medium-size coal-
fired boiler houses to gas-firing and in the installation of
energy-efficient equipment in new residential buildings; and
(b) technical assistance to project participants, including
project management, environmental monitoring, and nationwide
marketing.
Financina Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
Fiacing Sources        Local    Foreign      Total
|GET Fund Al             2.15      23.85       26.00
Local Sources           22.32                  22.32
TOTAL             24.47      23.85       48.32
Al  Includes cofinancing grant of US$1.0 million equivalent from the
Kingdom of Norway.
Benefits:         Global benefits include a 65% reduction in CO2 emissions by
converting small coal-fired boilers to gas-firing and a 28%
reduction in CO2 emissions by increasing the energy efficiency
in new residential buildings. Local benefits include virtual
elimination of sulfur dioxide and particulates and significant
reduction in nitrogen oxide emitted by the converted boilers.
Internal
Rate of Return:   25% for the coal-to-gas conversion component, with a cost-
effectiveness of US$37-67 per ton of CO2 reduced.
11% for the residential energy efficiency component, with a
cost-effectiveness of US$185 per ton of CO2 reduced.
Man No.:          IBRD 25145



POLAND
COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Background
1.    Country and Energy Sector.   Poland had a per capita 1992 Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) of about US$2,200 and is eligible for GEF financing. The energy
sector, which is one of the largest in the Polish economy, has developed without
regard to economy, efficiency and the environment. Energy intensity, although
declining, is estimated to be about 1.6 times as high per unit of GDP estimated
on a purchasing power of currency basis as in European countries in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and five times as
high per unit of GDP estimated on exchange rate basis, although per capita energy
consumption is at about 60% of the OECD level. Pollution problems related to the
energy sector are significant.
2.    Factors Influencing the Conversion from Coal to Gas.   The factors that
influence conversion from coal to gas, as discussed below, are fuel shares,
boiler size, energy pricing and air pollution standards.
3.    Fuel Shares.  Poland's energy market is dominated by domestically produced
coal.   In 1992, hard coal and lignite together supplied about 76 percent of
Poland's primary energy consumption in 1992. This rate is well above the share
justified by the structure of Poland's economy (which is strongly skewed toward
heavy, energy-inefficient industry). The primary reasons for the high share of
hard coal and lignite are the past policy of heavily subsidized prices of coal,
secure in-country availability of coal as the primary energy source, and a
disregard for the severe environmental pollution caused by current coal
combustion. Comparisons with West European countries indicate that coal's share
of primary energy consumption in Poland should be reduced to between 25 and 45
percent, depending on the economic and industrial restructuring and on the
development of the power sector. This shift would imply an increase in the share
of gas and oil from 23 percent in 1991 (one of the lowest in continental Europe)
to between 53 and 73 percent.
4.    Boiler Size.   Coal is normally preferable to gas (or oil) only in large
boilers (more than 50 Megawatt-thermal [MWt]) or medium-size boilers (5-50 MWt),
in which economies of scale allow the price differential between coal and gas to
amortize the additional costs of handling the coal and of the emission control
equipment. However, because, until recently, coal prices in Poland were more
heavily subsidized than gas prices, coal has also been the preferred fuel for
smaller boilers (less than 5 MWt) to a much greater extent than is the case in
other countries.
5.    Energy Pricing.  Since 1990, Poland has made major progress in reforming
its energy prices. Although further significant adjustments are necessary for
prices to reach economic levels, the impact is beginning to be felt in the areas
of energy efficiency and conservation and reduction of pollution.   The main
elements of the reform include liberalization of coal prices, increases in the
energy prices for industry toward economic levels, and gradual increases in the



-2-
energy prices for households first to the level paid by industrial consumers and
then to levels reflecting economic costs.   At present, network fuel prices,
although still being controlled, are on average about 60 percent of their
estimated economic levels, with the percentage for individual fuels ranging from
50-100 percent, depending on the tariff categories. For example, the price of
gas for non-residential users is now about 100 percent of the economic level.
The prices of coal, which are virtually set by the free market, have almost
reached import parity levels. Elements of energy pricing reform were supported
by the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 3247-POL), the energy Sector
Adjustment Loan (SECAL 3377-POL) and the Energy Resource Development Loan (Loan
3215-POL).
6.    Higher coal prices would lead to price-driven conversions from coal to gas,
which would result in the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and
other air pollutants such as sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides and
particulates. Such a conversion would start with small boilers and would consist
mainly of replacing coal-fired boilers with gas-fired boilers for units that need
to be rehabilitated or retired (in district heating) or replaced for process
reasons (in industry).   In addition, higher fuel prices would also induce
improvements in energy efficiency, a change that will further reduce the
emissions of C02 and other air pollutants. However, pricing coal at an economic
level will not by itself provide a sufficient incentive for conversion to gas.
The main reason is that the environmental charges for local pollutants are low
compared to the true damage to the environment.
7.    Air Pollution Standards.   The Bank's Environment Management Loan (Loan
3190-POL) is financing technical assistance to the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE) and to local environmental
administrations, the beneficiaries, to improve, inter alia, the management of air
quality in Poland (see para. 15). The Government has introduced new emission
standards that are to become effective January 1, 1998. These standards are in
line with the standards used in countries in the European Union, but the timing
of the introduction of the S02 standard for large power plants is unrealistic.
However, the existing as well as the proposed ambient standards are much stricter
than comparable standards in Western countries and it is unrealistic to expect
that these standards will be enforced in the near future. The Bank is discussing
with the Government the need to set realistic and enforceable emission and
ambient standards that are driven by the need to achieve a healthy ambient air
quality.   In setting ambient standards, cost-benefit analyses of the damage
caused by different pollution levels and the costs of reducing emissions would
need to be carried out. Emission standards should then be designed to ensure
that the desired ambient standards are met.
8.    A further issue to be addressed with the Government is that monitoring and
enforcement is currently tighter for larger sources of pollution than for smaller
ones.   Effective enforcement of the new standards for small and medium-size
boilers will need to be phased in during the next few years. In countries with
similar emission standards, in general the least-cost option for getting small
boilers to meet the standards is to switch to gas or oil. Often, it is the only
option. As Poland progressively tightens enforcement of its emission standards,



- 3 -
and as it gradually increases the environmental charges to levels reflecting the
true costs of environmental damage, the price-driven shift from coal to gas in
small boilers will be accelerated.   The rate of change from coal to gas is,
however, likely to be much lower among the large number of medium-size boilers
because economies of scale could justify the additional costs of using clean coal
technologies and of emission control equipment.
9.    Technology Options.      Substantial reductions in C02 emissions can be
achieved by converting to gas and increasing the efficiency of heat supply,
distribution, transfer and end-user systems. By itself and for the same level
of efficiency of fuel conversion, simply converting from coal to gas, without
improving end-use efficiency, would lead to at least a 43 percent reduction in
corresponding emissions of CO2.
10.   On the Supply Side.    For small and medium-size coal-fired boilers in
Poland, the efficiency of fuel conversion is typically low, in the 50-65 percent
range.   Generally the older the boiler, the lower the efficiency is.   New
replacement coal-fired boilers would have efficiencies of about 78 percent, which
could reduce CO2 emissions by 17-36 percent.  Higher efficiencies can be achieved
by replacing old coal-fired boilers with either new conventional gas-fired non-
condensing boilers (84 percent efficiency), high-efficiency gas-fired condensing
boilers (95 percent efficiency), or a single larger unit that would cogenerate
both heat and electricity (78 percent overall efficiency). Compared with old
existing boilers, the higher efficiency boilers (condensing technology) would
reduce CO2 emissions by 62-70 percent. With the cogeneration option, the overall
efficiency of fuel conversion would remain about the same as for a new coal-fired
boiler (78 percent); and the electric power produced in cogeneration would
replace the power now being generated from coal in the national power system at
only  30-34 percent  efficiency.    Compared with  old existing boilers,  the
cogeneration technology option would reduce CO2 emissions by 65-69 percent on a
national basis. Cogeneration (combined heat and power production) is now common
in Poland with large boilers.   Recent technology developments with smaller,
packaged, gas-fired cogeneration units, utilizing either reciprocating engines
or gas turbines, now make these an attractive technology option for small and
medium-size boilers as well.
11.   On the Heat Distribution and Transfer Systems and on the Energy User Side.
Further reduction in C02 emissions can be achieved by improving the energy
efficiency of the heat distribution and transfer systems associated with the
converted boilers and of the end-use facilities served by these boilers.
Improvements in energy efficiency involve: (i) insulation of the heat network
distribution and building piping systems; (ii) installation of automation,
control  and  metering  equipment  at  the  heat  transfer  substations;  (iii)
installation  of  thermostatic  control  valves;  and  (iv)  enhancing  energy
conservation awareness among building users and occupants.   While efficiency
improvements are not "coal-to-gas technology" options, such improvements become
an integral part of any systems approach to boiler conversion. A primary focus
on the easy-to-capture efficiency improvements in the heat distribution and
transfer systems and in the end-use facilities would alone produce an estimated
reduction in heat demand of about 10-18 percent. Further improvements in the



- 4 -
efficiency of building equipment, controls and operations could reduce heat
demand by 20-30 percent, or more, and do so on a cost-effective basis from a
national perspective. In this context, the coal-to-gas conversion project can
be viewed as part of a larger program toward improved energy use, lower energy
costs, and an overall reduction in CO2 emissions.
12.   Availability of Gas Supply.   Poland's domestic production of natural gas
in 1992 was 4.0 billion cubic meters (m3), down from 5.4 billion m3 in 1989.
Imports of natural gas from Russia have remained flat, at about 6.7 billion m3,
and are not expected to increase significantly before 1995. Since 1990, Poland's
economic reforms and industrial restructuring have led to a decline in the demand
for gas by several major industrial consumers, and gas consumption by industry
fell from 7.0 billion m3 in 1990 to 5.7 billion m3 in 1992. In response, Poland
decided to maintain its contracted imports from Russia and to vary its domestic
production according to the seasonal variations in gas demand. Additional demand
for gas over the next five years will be met largely by: (i) restoring domestic
gas production to its former levels; and (ii) storing gas seasonally to improve
the average annual utilization of Poland's gas fields.
13.   Within the framework of this GEF project, there would be no obstacles in
supplying the estimated volumes of about 22 million m3 per year. The supply of
gas could, however, be limited in the peak period in the winter to meet the
seasonal variations in the demand for gas either in large district heating
boilers or in combined heat and power (CHP) plants. Such limitations result from
the lack of seasonal flexibility in imports from Russia and a limited storage
capacity.    The  magnitude  of  the  limitations  will  also  depend  on  load
characteristics, geographical location and timing of the phase-in of any new
demand for gas.   To mitigate the impact of load variations,  interruptible
contracts are used for large gas consumers. In such cases, light fuel oil is
used as the back-up fuel.
14.   Gas Distribution Network.   Poland's gas network has a limited capacity to
serve large numbers of medium-size industrial consumers and to meet the
incremental demand of households (see para. 12).  The Bank's Energy Resource
Development Loan is financing, inter alia, a strengthening of the gas
transmission and distribution systems, mainly in existing service areas.
Associated IBRD Project
15.   The proposed GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project was approved by the GEF
Participants in December 1991. It was initially proposed to be associated with
the Poland - Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project (Loans 3377/83-
POL) approved in June 1991.  However, because of the institutional and legal
arrangements under the Heat Supply Project, which involve local rather than
national concerns, the proposed GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project would be more
appropriately associated with the Poland - Environment Management Project (Loan
3190-POL)  approved  in April  1990.   The Loan Agreement for the  Poland  -
Environment Management Project was amended to incorporate the GEF component.



-5-
Project Objectives
16.   The GEF assistance under this project would focus on those coal-fired
boilers for which the conversion to gas is not financially attractive to the
owners. The project has several objectives: (a) it would demonstrate interfuel
substitution and technological innovation to improve overall energy efficiency
throughout the heat supply chain as a means of reducing CO2 emissions. The heat
supply chain includes the heat supply, distribution and transfer systems, the
end-use equipment and user behavior; (b) the project would build up the local
institutional capability to make judgements during project analysis about
capturing global externalities, such as CO2 emission abatement; and (c) it would
establish the organizational structure for implementing already selected pilot
projects and replicating the GEF concept with other investment projects yet to
be identified nationwide and to be funded under this project.
Project Description and Costs
17.   The Government of Poland is first giving priority to national and regional
environmental problems.  Because of its participation in the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change, the Government of Poland is also determined to reduce
greenhouse gases, principally CO2 and methane. This strategy will become binding
once Poland ratifies the Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC).
Continued funding for Poland under the GEF - Second Phase may be dependent upon
Poland's ratification of the Convention.   Some estimates put Poland as the
world's eighth largest producer of CO2. The source is mainly the combustion of
coal. Among the least-cost options for reducing CO2 emissions in Poland is to
encourage a more rapid transition from coal- to gas-firing in small and medium-
size boilers. Supporting this transition through GEF resources would capture
substantial global benefits by extending the size range of boilers that can be
converted and by introducing more efficient technologies.
18.   GEF funds would be used to: (a) encourage coal-to-gas conversions in small
and medium-size boilers, whose owners could not achieve acceptable financial
rates of return without concessional financing but who could demonstrate
substantial energy efficiency improvements at the same time; and (b) quickly and
strongly influence future investments to the benefit of global environmental
objectives through pilot investments in residential buildings that integrate
improvements in energy supply, distribution, transfer and end-user efficiency.
These steps would significantly reduce CO2 emissions from the residential sector
in Poland.
19.   Project Scope of Work.   The project would move quickly to implement two
identified pilot projects, provide technical assistance for the project and
finance follow-on investments yet to be identified. The sites for the two pilot
projects are located in Krakow.  Each site represents a typical unit size of
boilers found in Poland.  The conversion technologies selected for the pilot
projects involve one condensing boiler technology and one gas-turbine
cogeneration  system.    For  the  follow-on  individual  projects,  conversion
technologies will be evaluated and selected on a case-by-case basis. The project
is expected to include: (a) high-efficiency gas-fired boilers, involving either



- 6 -
condensing or non-condensing technologies; and (b) gas-fired cogeneration
systems, involving either reciprocating engine or gas turbine technologies.
20.   The project scope of work and overall cost estimates were determined on the
basis of the technology mix selected for the Krakow pilot projects. The project
would consist of two components:
(a)   An investment component (US$44.79 million),  to support:  (i) the
conversion to gas-firing of about 44 coal-fired boiler houses
(US$43.86 million, excluding the costs of project engineering and
management services, see para. 20. (b)); and (ii) the installation of
energy-efficiency equipment in new residential buildings (US$0.93
million).    For  the  coal-to-gas  conversion  subcomponent,  the
conversion technology selected could include a possible technology
mix of 6 small, packaged, gas-fired cogeneration schemes (estimated
at US$4.85 million each) and 38 high-efficiency condensing boilers
(estimated at US$388,500  each).   The  final mix of conversion
technologies would depend on the Polish priorities. The final mix
would affect the number of individual projects accomplished because
of the potentially  large differences  in project costs.    Each
individual project design would include a number of elements: (i)
supplementary   energy  efficiency   improvements   in  the  heat
distribution and transfer systems associated with the converted
boilers and in the existing buildings supplied by these boilers;
(ii) connection to main network fuels; and (iii) integrated
monitoring system to assess project performance and environmental
benefits.  For the energy efficiency subcomponent, 670 to 800 new
residential building units would be equipped with: (i) increased
insulation  for  walls,  ceilings  and  windows;   (ii)  improved
efficiency, automation and control of heat installation; and (iii)
energy-efficient electric appliances.   In addition,  residential
tenants would receive information on energy conservation and
efficient consumption behavior; and
(b)   a technical assistance component (US$3.53 million), covering:  (i)
project organization and administration; (ii) project engineering
and management services; (iii) consultancy services for project
appraisal, supervision of implementation, and a nationwide marketing
of the GEF project concept; (iv) training; and (v) monitoring
systems.
Project Cost Estimates
21.   Based on the technology mix assumed in para. 20, the estimated project cost
is about US$48.32 million, with US$23.85 million in foreign costs (49 percent of
total costs) and US$24.47 million in local costs (51 percent of total costs).
The more rapidly these technologies are being produced in Poland, the more the
local cost component would increase.   The project cost estimate includes a
physical contingency of 10 percent and a price contingency of 2.5 percent
compounded annually. Grant-financed projects are exempt from custom duties and



- 7 -
import taxes. Detailed estimates of project costs and cash flow are presented
in Annex 13.
22.   The project also benefited from a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) of
US$329,000 allocated to the Voivodship of Krakow for the pilot projects. The PPA
is excluded from the project cost estimates presented in Annex 13.
Project Financing Plan
23.   For individual projects, the cost sharing from GEF, the financing plan and
the mix of collateral sources would be determined case-by-case.   They would
depend on the individual project status within national and local priorities, the
conversion technology selected, the energy-efficiency measures included, and the
boiler owner's equity contribution.
24.   GEF Cost Sharing.  The GEF would provide incremental funding either to
render projects with global benefits economic or to modify already viable
projects to enhance the capture of such benefits. For the coal-to-gas conversion
subcomponent, GEF funding would provide grant elements equivalent to the
additional life-cycle costs of converting existing coal-fired boilers to new,
more efficient gas-fired boilers over the cost of replacing the old boilers after
25 years in service with new coal-fired boilers and of re-engineering the old
installation to take advantage of privately profitable improvements in energy-
efficiency. The rationale for incremental GEF funding is that, without the GEF,
re-engineering and replacement with new coal-fired boilers would be optimal for
the facility owners. For the energy efficiency subcomponent, the GEF funding
would also provide incremental grant financing for the installation of energy-
efficiency equipment in new residential buildings, necessary to increase overall
building efficiency above the required level set by the Polish Housing Energy-
Efficiency Standards.
25.   For the coal-to-gas conversion subcomponent, typical coal-to-gas conversion
is financially not viable for owners based on current economic conditions and
incentive structures.  To achieve an acceptable rate of return of 25 percent
(boiler owner's cost of capital), the GEF grant should typically cover about 34
percent of the cost for the condensing boiler project and 60 percent of the cost
for the cogeneration project.   For the Krakow pilot projects, the estimated
project costs, including project engineering and management services, are US$5.1
million for the cogeneration project and US$403,000 for the condensing boiler
project.   The estimated GEF contribution would be US$2.94 million for the
cogeneration project and US$129,000 for the condensing boiler project. For the
energy efficiency subcomponent,  the GEF grant would cover all costs of the
incremental energy-efficiency measures. For the technical assistance component,
the GEF grant would also cover in totality the costs of the related assistance
services. For the total GEF project, the GEF contribution of US$26.0 million
equivalent represents about 54 percent of the project cost.   The remaining
US$22.32 million (or 46 percent) represents local counterpart funding.
26.   Indicative Financing Plan.   Based on the technology mix assumed in
para. 20, an indicative financing plan of US$45.93 million for the coal-to-gas



- 8 -
conversion subcomponent, including project engineering and management services,
is presented in Annex 14. This plan consists of: (a) a GEF grant of US$23.61
million equivalent, including a prorated share from the Norwegian cofinancing
(see para. 27); and (b) local counterpart financing of US$22.32 million.
27.   Norwegian Cofinancing.  The Kingdom of Norway has provided an additional
cofinancing grant of NKr7.425 million, the equivalent of US$1.0 million, to the
project. The intention of the Norwegian cofinancing is to provide a practical
demonstration of elements of possible joint implementation arrangements under the
FCCC (see Annex 15).
28.   Sources of Collateral Funding.  An assessment of the various sources of
collateral financing, including their terms and conditions, is presented in
Annex 7. Based on the above indicative plan and out of the required US$22.32
million counterpart funding over the project period, both the National Fund for
Environmental Protection and Water Management (the National Fund) and Bank
Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) could participate with up to about US$15.32 million,
the local voivodships with about US$4.0 million and the boiler owners with an
equity contribution of US$3.0 million.  The Voivodship of Krakow secured the
local counterpart financing for the pilot projects in Krakow. The National Fund
and BOS provided commitments to the Bank on their participation in the financing
of the overall GEF project.
29.   Guarantee Requirements.  It has been customary for local Polish banks to
require cascading layers of guarantees from public entities (voivodships and/or
gminas) for all loans (public and private). This practice presents a barrier for
access to development funds and is unnecessary since the GEF would substantially
grant finance the installation of new equipment. When the participating boiler
owner is not a public institution, the lending institutions contributing to the
counterpart fund should not require guarantee(s) from regional and local
authorities (voivodships and/or gminas). Rather, the lending institutions should
require alternative guarantee schemes such as collateral on the new assets or an
escrow account for the revenue stream generated by these assets and secured
through long-term sales contracts. Such schemes should be applied first to meet
debt service repayment (principal plus interest). Agreement was reached with BOS
that it will use alternative guarantee schemes for all projects involving private
owners, as a substitute for guarantees from public entities (voivodships and/or
gminas).
Project Implementation
30.   Project Organization and Implementation Structure.          A comprehensive
project organization and implementation structure, including overall project
supervision and monitoring, is presented in Annex 7. This structure is designed
to cope with the complexity that may eventually arise from multiple individual
boiler conversion projects distributed nationwide and to establish the
institutional framework that would allow replication of the GEF concept
throughout Poland. The structure presented in Annex 7 defines the technical,
administrative and financial roles and responsibilities of the key participants
in the proposed GEF project needed to establish a framework for replicability.



-9-
In addition, it may well be used for future GEF-type operations.   A summary
description of the project organization and implementation structure, including
key project participants and project implementation arrangements, follows.
31.   The Grant Recipient.   The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry (MoE), through its Department of Ecological Policy, would
be responsible for: (a) overall coordination and implementation of this project;
and (b) monitoring and reviewing project activities and products to assure that
they are of a high quality and are accomplished in a cost-effective and timely
manner.
32.   The Implementing Agency.   BOS would serve as the implementing agency for
this project. BOS would not be used as an intermediary bank that would use the
proceeds of the GEF grant for lending purposes, but rather as an administrator
of project activities and funds to be used solely for the purposes of the
project. BOS would receive a management fee to cover its administrative costs.
BOS would also receive assistance from qualified consultants in selected areas
of project appraisal, implementation and management.
33.   About 80 percent of BOS staff is in regional offices throughout Poland.
Through its already established network of branches, BOS would: (a) supervise
implementation of the pilot projects in Krakow; (b) promote the GEF concept
nationwide; (c) receive and evaluate applications for financing under the
project; (d) submit proposals for review and clearance to a national Scientific
and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) composed of foreign and Polish experts, which
will evaluate the projects' eligibility for GEF financing; (e) act as syndicator
of funds for each individual coal-to-gas conversion project determined to be
eligible for GEF financing by assisting the project owners in obtaining the
required collateral funding; (f) appraise individual projects, supervise their
implementation and monitor performance tesults following a set of procedures and
guidelines documented in a GEF Project Operations Handbook to be developed under
the first GEF pilot projects in Krakow; and (g) administer and channel funds from
the GEF project to the prospective beneficiaries through monitorable accounts
designated for these purposes only. BOS could also participate as a source of
collateral funding for each of the individual projects, using its own funds,
based on its standard terms and conditions for investment loans (see Annex 7).
34.   Individual investment projects would be evaluated in the order they are
received, without pre-set limits per voivodship or per project.   The project
owners would implement the projects under the supervision of BOS and with the
assistance of technical advisors to the GEF project and of qualified consultants
acting as representatives of the owners in selected areas of project management,
engineering design, procurement, supervision of construction work, installation,
testing and commissioning, and monitoring of project environmental and technical
performance.
35.   Beneficiaries.  The beneficiaries of the GEF grant could be: (i) public and
private owners of non-industrial boilers, such as housing cooperatives, district
heating enterprises, hospitals, universities; and (ii) new residential building
owners who have secured construction financing. Industrial boilers are excluded



- 10 -
because this would require further complicated analyses of the business prospects
of each industry.
36.   Grant and Project Agreements.   The legal arrangements under this project
will consist of: (a) a Grant Agreement between the Bank and MoE; (b) a Project
Agreement between MoE and BOS; and (c) a Sub-Grant Agreement for each individual
project between BOS and prospective grant beneficiaries. The Grant Agreement
would make references to the Loan Agreement for the associated World Bank project
(see para. 15) and to the Norwegian cofinancing arrangement.   A Letter of
Agreement was signed on September 30, 1993 between the Governments of Norway and
Poland on financial cooperation for this project. Agreement was reached with MoE
on the terms of the Project Agreement.  Agreement was reached that MoE shall
establish the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel and monitor the GEF
project.
37.   Project Implementation Period and Disbursement.    The project would be
implemented during FY1995-2000. The project's completion date is expected to be
June 30, 2000 and the closing date December 31, 2000 (see Annex 18).    Once
selected, a high-efficiency condensing boiler project and a cogeneration project
would take about 18 and 24 months to complete, respectively. In this context,
identification and appraisal of follow-on individual projects would be done
within the first three years of the project implementation period. Standard Bank
disbursement procedures would be followed, with established limits on initial
levels of deposit and replenishment for the Special Account, Statements of
Expenditures and Bank review (see Annex 17).
38.   Project Performance.    The maximum total amount of GEF grant assistance
available for coal-to-gas conversion activity is US$26.0 million equivalent, of
which about US$24.5 million is for the investment component. Potential coal-to-
gas boiler conversion projects in Poland far exceed that amount.   Even those
limited GEF funds could, however, be significantly scaled down if only a few
solid individual projects are identified and their counterpart financing secured
within the first three years of the GEF project. About 13 percent of the GEF
project funds are already committed for the pilot projects in Krakow. To ensure
satisfactory performance in project identification and appraisal and in the
disbursement of the GEF funds, targets for cumulative commitment levels for the
GEF grant related to the investment component of the GEF project would be set as
follows: (a) 14 percent (or US$3.4 million equivalent) by the end of the first
year; (b) 64 percent (or US$15.7 million equivalent) by the end of the second
year; and (c) 100 percent (or US$24.5 million equivalent) by the end of the third
year. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the uncommitted portion of the overall
GEF grant as of the beginning of the fourth year would then be cancelled.
39.   Based on the technology mix assumed in para. 20, an estimated 160 MWt of
boiler capacity are expected to be converted under this project. This level is
only about 1 percent of the total capacity of small and medium boiler houses in
Poland. Therefore, the risk of not identifying suitable follow-up conversion
projects is minimal.



- 11 -
40.   Monitoring and Evaluation of Results.   Because of its importance within
the GEF pilot phase, it is expected that this project would be intensively
reviewed by GEF participant countries for potential replicability.   Thus, a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program was developed and would be
implemented from the earliest project stages, to ensure that an accurate and
detailed assessment of project impacts and benefits would be fully available.
This program, as outlined in Annex 11, was set up in accordance with established
international monitoring and project evaluation procedures, protocols and
requirements.   Recognizing  the  importance  of this  activity  for producing
verifiable project results, MoE would be responsible for this portion of the
project and would use the services of a contractor acceptable to the Bank for the
monitoring of individual conversion projects. The monitoring activities would
be funded by the GEF grant.
41.   Agreement was reached with MoE on the monitoring and evaluation program.
For the coal-to-gas conversion subcomponent, monitoring of individual projects
should include pre- and post-conversion calculations and measurements of: (a)
greenhouse gas emissions; (b) other air pollutants; (c) ambient air quality,
where monitoring systems have been established; and (d) technical performance.
For the energy efficiency subcomponent, monitoring of individual projects should
include, inter alia, a quality control program to assure that the energy-
efficiency and conservation measures are actually installed and operating
properly. The sub-grant agreement for each individual project would include the
development of a related monitoring plan consistent with the program as a
condition of disbursement.
42.   Rules and Procedures  for Processing Individual Project Applications.
Typical rules and procedures have been identified for accomplishing individual
conversion projects.   A typical flow of activities for a single project is
described in Annex 8.
43.   Project Set-up and Management.   Given the number of project preparation
activities, BOS has already assigned the staff necessary to set up a GEF project
team. During project preparation and subsequently during project implementation,
focused training would be required to assist the BOS team and other major
participants in the project in: (a) Bank procurement and disbursement procedures;
(b) implementation of the marketing plan for a comprehensive promotion of the GEF
project immediately after effectiveness of the GEF grant; (c) establishing
standardized identification, technical and environmental requirements and
application procedures for follow-on investments; (d) preparation of elements of
the GEF Project Operations Handbook; and (e) monitoring of the implementation of
the pilot projects in Krakow, assisted by qualified representatives of the boiler
owners. Project implementation activities are described in Annex 12. Agreement
was reached with BOS on the marketing plan and its implementation.
44.   Procurement Responsibilities and Strategy.    Individual projects would
likely be geographically distributed and would have separate project owners.
Procurement of goods, works and services for individual projects would be carried
out independently by the project owners. BOS central office would coordinate and
supervise all procurement activities under the GEF project.   As prospective



- 12 -
beneficiaries of the GEF fund, the project owners would be assisted by qualified
consultants  on procurement  matters  (see para.  34).   For  the coal-to-gas
conversion subcomponent, each conversion project would be procured on the basis
of a single responsibility contract involving engineering, procurement and
construction  (EPC  contract).    It would  permit  well  coordinated  project
implementation.   EPC contractors would be post-qualified.   Only single-stage
bidding procedures would be followed under this project. A pre-bid conference
would be, however, required for the procurement of each EPC contract.   EPC
contracts would be awarded following: (i) international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures for conversion projects involving cogeneration systems; and (ii)
limited international bidding (LIB) procedures for conversion projects involving
high-efficiency boiler systems.  For the energy efficiency subcomponent, each
energy-efficiency project would involve several procurement sub-packages of off-
the-shelf goods that are readily available. Given the relatively low value of
these sub-packages, they would be procured individually following international
and local shopping procedures.
45.   Procurement Arrangements.  The World Bank's Procurement Guidelines and the
now mandatory Standard Bidding Documents would be followed in all procurement of
goods, works and services to be financed by the GEF grant (including the
Norwegian cofinancing).   Procurements of goods from domestic suppliers and
manufacturers, and contracts for services and works from domestic firms and
contractors, are possible.  Under the ICB procedures for goods only, and for
purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids, Polish manufacturers would receive
a domestic preference margin of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing
customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they
can prove that the value added to the product in Poland exceeds 20 percent of the
ex-factory bid price. BOS would closely monitor all procurement activities and
ensure compliance with the Bank's Guidelines.   The procurement arrangements and
schedule are detailed in Annex 16.
46.   Project Reporting.    Each sub-grant agreement would include reporting
requirements from grant beneficiaries to BOS.   In turn, BOS would carry out
project implementation monitoring and documentation for each individual project
and for the overall project. Agreement was reached that BOS would furnish to MoE
and the Bank: (a) by November 30 and May 31 of each year, progress reports on the
status of the overall project, with brief information on individual projects; (b)
a project completion report for the overall project to be submitted within six
months after the project closing date; and (c) a project completion report for
each individual project eighteen months after the acceptance of the individual
project by the owner.
47.   Project Auditing.   The Project Account,  the Special Account and the
Statement of Expenditures would be audited at the end of each fiscal year in
accordance with international standards. Agreement was reached that BOS would
appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank and present within
six months after the end of each fiscal year, the audited Project Account, the
Special Account and Statement of Expenditures.



- 13 -
48.   Project Supervision.   As part of its responsibility to administer the GEF
grant,  the Bank would carry out regular supervision missions.   The project
implementation and supervision action plans are presented in Annex 18.
Project Sustainability
49.   The introduction of improved technologies would facilitate the Government's
efforts to pursue its environmental priorities and standards aggressively and to
take full advantage of the macroeconomic conditions and other incentives that
induce energy efficiency and conservation.    With largely decontrolled coal
prices, a proper gas pricing policy, rising labor costs, and proper set-up and
enforcement of environmental fees and fines that reflect the true costs of
environmental damage, coal-to-gas conversion would become a financially
attractive and self-supporting option.  The GEF activity could be made more self-
sustaining if support were provided to develop an independent power market based
on small gas-fired cogeneration systems, high-efficiency boilers and advanced
energy-efficient building equipment -- insulation, glazing, lighting and
appliances -- that are widely available.
Rationale for GEF Funding
50.   The scope for using innovative technologies such as high-efficiency gas-
fired boilers and packaged gas-fired cogeneration units and for integrating
improvements in heat energy supply, distribution, and transfer systems and in
end-use efficiency in buildings to improve the cost-effectiveness of the
abatement of CO2 emissions needs to be demonstrated through pilot investments.
Although the technologies are well-established, their development in Poland and
in other Central and Eastern European countries has so far been limited.
51.   The present GEF activity is designed as a catalyst to stimulate self-
replicable technological and institutional changes that would promote coal-to-gas
conversion in small and medium-size boilers and induce more energy-efficient
practices in the architectural design and operation of new residential buildings.
The techniques, once successfully demonstrated in Poland, are replicable in the
large number of coal-dependent/intensive transition economies that have access
to gas supplies.
Environmental Aspects
52.   Environmental Screening Classification.   The proposed project has been
placed in environmental screening category "B," consistent with the provisions
of Operational Directive 4.01,  "Environmental Assessment."   The project was
subject to an environmental review for the demonstration activities and
environmental guidelines have been developed for use in the GEF Project
Replicability Framework to be established under the project (see Annex 9).  The
proposed demonstration activities have received clearance from the Environmental
Protection Department of Krakow, which has authority for projects of this type
and scale under Polish environmental procedures.   It should be noted that an
"Environmental Assessment of the Gas Development Plan for Poland" was prepared
in 1991 to support evaluation of environmental issues associated with the



- 14 -
development of policies and technical programs for substituting gas for coal in
Poland.
53.   Potential Environmental Impacts.  Implementation of the proposed project
would result in accelerated implementation of the Government of Poland's policy
of converting small and medium-size coal-fired boilers to the use of gas to
reduce serious air pollution problems in major urban-industrial areas, with
resulting local benefits to air quality and public health. On a regional scale
such interventions would incrementally support the reduction of SO2 emissions and
contribute to a reduction of CO2 emissions on a global level. The use of high-
efficiency boiler technology would also reduce the total level of energy used and
reduce the rate of exploitation of domestic gas reserves and the level of natural
gas imports.
54.   Environmental Benefits from Pilot Projects. Implementation of the proposed
pilot activities in Krakow would have a positive impact on local air quality,
especially during the winter heating season, and would contribute on an
incremental basis to improved air quality on a regional basis.   In addition,
these projects would complement the ongoing program in the City of Krakow to
reduce pollution from small and medium-scale boiler houses. Implementation of the
two pilot activities in Krakow would reduce the use of coal by 4,238 tons per
year and replace it with clean burning natural gas, which would further improve
ambient air quality in the historic city center. On a local and regional level,
the change in fuel types and the introduction of higher efficiency boilers would
result in an average annual reduction in emissions of S02 by about 118 tons and
particulates by about 80 tons. The pilot activities would have global benefits
by reducing COZ emissions by an estimated 10,050 tons per year.
55.   Potential Adverse Impacts.  The primary potential adverse environmental
impacts associated with the proposed project are: (a) waste management issues
associated with the handling and disposal of asbestos wastes during the removal
of the old boilers; and (b) the risk of explosion associated with the piped
delivery and use of gas in boilers. Both these issues are well-recognized in
Poland, and proper procedures would be used in the proposed project for the safe
handling and disposal of asbestos and for assuring the safe installation and
operation of the gas supply systems and gas-fired boilers. The pilot activities
would include specific provisions to address these issues, and the environmental
guidelines for the GEF Project Replicability Framework require that these issues
be reviewed case-by-case.
56.   Institutional Strengthening.  The proposed project would contribute to a
strengthening of Poland's capacity, at the national and local levels and in the
areas selected for project-supported conversion activities, to: (a) plan and
implement, on a national basis, the innovative and cost-effective types of
environmental improvement activities being supported under the proposed GEF
project; (b) develop experience with the design, installation and operation of
interventions to improve the heat supply system; (c) create an institutional
capability to assess global externalities such as CO2 emission abatement in
project analyses; and (d) improve the implementation of public awareness programs
for energy efficiency and conservation.



- 15 -
Project Benefits
57.   The assumptions and methodology for determining the project benefits, the
GEF incremental cost-sharing and the marginal cost of net CO2 abatement are
presented in Annex 19. A summary of the results follows.
58.   For the coal-to-gas conversion subcomponent.    With energy conservation
measures included, the proposed GEF project could achieve up to a 67-71 percent
reduction in CO2 emissions compared with the old existing boiler facilities.
Based on the technology mix assumed in para. 20, and extrapolating to the overall
GEF project on the basis of the Krakow pilot projects, the GEF coal-to-gas
conversion subcomponent would have several outcomes. The first is local benefits
through the elimination of about 45,000 tons of coal burned annually.   This
reduction would improve ambient air quality locally and regionally by reducing
the annual emissions of SO2 and particulates by about 820 and 860 tons,
respectively.   Second, global benefits would result from a reduction of CO2
emissions of about 100,000 tons per year.   The marginal cost of the net CO2
abatement is US$37 per ton of CO2 reduced for the condensing boiler project and
US$67 per ton of CO2 reduced for the cogeneration project.
59.   For the energy efficiency  subcomponent.    The  energy efficiency and
conservation measures in new residential buildings would lead to energy savings
of about 27-31 percent and a reduction in equivalent CO2 emissions of about 28-40
percent. The marginal cost of the net CO2 abatement is about US$187 per ton of
C02 reduced.
Project Risks
60.   The project risks include:   (a) delays in obtaining local counterpart
financing; (b) institutional barriers or inefficiency in promoting and
replicating the GEF concept; (c) delays in implementing the first GEF pilot
projects; and (d) impact of price variation between cost estimates and actual bid
prices for individual projects on the GEF grant to be allocated (see para. 61).
61.   These risks have been minimized by:  (a) securing the local counterpart
financing for the pilot projects and receiving firm commitments from both the
National Fund and BOS on their participation in the financing of the overall GEF
project; (b) facilitating access to local counterpart funding for private boiler
owners by establishing acceptable guarantee requirements from the local lending
institutions; (c) starting implementation of a nationwide marketing program of
the GEF project immediately after effectiveness of the GEF grant; (d) proceeding
immediately with the hiring of qualified engineering consultants to act as
representatives of boiler owners for the pilot projects in Krakow; and (e)
revising the GEF grant amounts based on the actual costs of individual projects
from bids received.






Schedule A
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs
PROJECT                                      US$ Million
COMPONENTS                    LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
A. Investment Component
A.1 Coal-to-Gas Conversion Program
- Cogeneration Systems                        14.94      10.08    25.02
- High Efficiency Boiler Systems               6.27       6.46    12.73
Sub-total - Conversion Program                21.21      16.54    37.75
A.2 Energy Efficiency Fund                                    0.93     0.93
Subtotal - Investment Component                     21.21      17.47    38.68
B. Contractual Services
B.1 Environmental Monitoring                                  0.25     0.25
B.2 Marketing Program                                         0.15     0.15
Sub-total - Contractual Services                                0.40     0.40
C. Technical Assistance
C.1 Engineering and Project Management Services               2.07     2.07
C.2 BOS Management Fee                                        0.62     0.62
C.3 Technical Advisors (STAP)                                 0.19     0.19
C.4 Energy Auditing Services                                  0.05     0.05
C.5 External Financial Auditing Services                      0.06     0.06
C.6 Training and Other Consulting Services                    0.14     0.14
Sub-total - Technical Assistance                                3.13     3.13
D. PROJECT BASE COSTS                                  21.21      21.00    42.21
E. Contingencies
E.1 Physical Contingency                           2.12       1.86     3.98
E.2 Price Contingency                              1.14       0.99     2.13
Sub-total - Contingencies                            3.26       2.85     6.11
F. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 24.47      23.85    48.32
Financing Plan
FINANCING                               US$ Million Equivalent
SOURCES                       LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
GET Fund   /a                                        2.15      23.85    26.00
Local Sources                                       22.32     .         22.32
TOTAL                                  24.47     23.85    48.32
Note:   /a  Includes cofinancing grant of US$1.0 million equivalent from the Kingdom of Norway.



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements and Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Arrangements
PROJECT                   I       PROCUREMENT METHODS             /al
COMPONENTS         I  ICB   I  LIB         LCB    OTHER  gj TOTAL
GOODS, WORKS AND MATERIALS
A. Cogeneration Systems                          29.10                                    29.10
(16.90)                                  (16.90)
B. High Efficiency Boiler Systems                          14.76                          14.76
(4.64)                        (4.64)
C. Energy Efficiency Equipment                                                  0.93       0.93
for New Residential Buildings                                               (0.93)     (0.93)
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
E. Environmental Monitoring                                           0.23      0.02       0.25
(0.23)   (0.02)     (0.25)
F. Marketing Program                                                  0.14     0.01        0.15
(0.14)   (0.01)     (0.15)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            :
G. BOS Management Fee                                                           0.62       0.62
(0.62)     (0.62)
H. Technical Advisors (STAP)                                                    0.19       0.19
(0.19)     (0.19)
I . Energy Auditing Services                                                   0.05        0.05
(0.05)     (0.05)
J. External Financial Auditing Services                                        0.06        0.06
(0.06)     (0.06)
K. Training and Consulting Services                                             2.21       2.21
(2.21)     (2.21)
TOTAL                                         29.10     14.76      0.37     4.09       48.32
(16.90)    (4.64)    (0.37)   (4.-09)    (26.00)
la ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited International Bidding;
and LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Figures in bracket indicate amounts in US$ million equivalent to be financed from GET and
Norwegian grants.
/b Includes:       (1) International & Local Shopping (aggregate amount US$0.93 million equivalent)
(2) Direct Contracting (aggregate amount US$0.03 million equivalent)
(3) Training & Consulting Services (aggregate amount US$3.13 million equivalent)
awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Disbursement Schedule
(Includes Norwegian Grant)
US$ Million Equivalent
IBRD FY             FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98      FY99    FY2000
Annual                  0.46      3.13      8.38      9.45      4.13      0.46
Cumulative              0.46      3.59     11.97     21.42     25.55    26.00
Percentage              1.8%     13.8%     46.0%     82.40%    98.3%   100.0%



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Disbursement Categories
Amount of the          Amount of the
CATEGORY              GET Grant Allocated   Norwegian Grant Allocated     % of Expenditures
(expressed in SDR)     (expressed in NKr)           to be Financed
A. Goods, Civil Works
and Materials                 11,980,000                 5,140,000         100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
B. Contractual Services             260,000                   114,000          100%
C. Project Administration Fees      410,000                   177,000          100%
D. Training and
Consulting Services            1,660,000                  717,000          100%
E. Unallocated                     2,890,000                1,277,000
TOTAL                  17,200,000                 7,425,000



SCHEDULE C
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Time Table of Key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare                    30 months
(b)   Prepared by                             The World Bank
(c)   Identification Mission                  October 24, 1991
(d)   Pre-Appraisal Mission                   March 10, 1993
(e)   Appraisal Mission                       May 31, 1993
(f)   Negotiations                            August 29 - September 2, 1994
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness           December 1994
(h)   Expected date of Completion             June 30, 2000



Part II: Technical Annexes






TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Document Available in the Project File
Annex 2:    Emissions from Stationary Sources in Poland
Annex 3:    Technology Options
Annex 4:    Criteria for Eligibility and Selection of Priorities
Annex 5:    Selection of the First GEF Boiler Pilot Projects
Annex 6:    Description of the Krakow Pilot Projects
Annex 7:    Project Organization Structure and Institutional Replicability
Annex 8:    Rules and Procedures for Processing Applications
Annex 9:    Environmental Aspects
Annex 10:   Residential Energy Efficiency
Annex 11:   Environmental Monitoring Program
Annex 12:   Project Implementation Activities
Annex 13:   Project Costs
Annex 14:   Indicative Financing Plan
Annex 15:   Norwegian Co-Financing
Annex 16:   Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
Annex 17:   Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18:   Project Implementation Plan
Annex 19:   Financial Analysis
Annex 20:   Technical Assistance
Annex 21:   Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel - Terms of Reference
Annex 22:   Boiler Owners' Representative - Terms of Reference
Annex 23:   Operations Handbook Consultant and Application Processing
Consultant - Terms of Reference
Annex 24:   Local Experts and Members of the Technical Advisory Groups - Terms
of Reference
Annex 25:   Marketing Plan - Terms of Reference
Map No:     IBRD 25145



Annex 1-1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Economic and Financial Model for GEF - Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project, The
World Bank, May 1994.
2.    Source of Air Pollutants emission in the region of Krakow City, UNICO
Services Ltd., Krakow, March 1993.
3.    Boiler Coal-to-Gas  Conversion and Total  Energy Housing complexes  in
Krakow, Evaluation of Proposals and Recommendations, Stadwerke Mannheim
SMA, Mannheim, February 12, 1994
4.    Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project, Preliminary Report on Proposals in Krakow,
World Bank, EC2EE, Washington, D.C., September 1992
5.    Proposal for Coal-to-Gas Conversion of Boilerhouse in the City of Krakow,
Trzebinia, Chrzanon and Libiaz, Krakow Development Office, Krakow, July
1992.
6.    Proposal for Heating of Housing Estates using Natural Gas as Principal
Energy Medium for the Cities of Krakow, Tarnow, Krakow, Development
Office, July 1992.
7.    Economic Modeling and Analysis of Heating System Alternatives in Krakow,
CityProf, Krakow, May 1992.



Annex 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Emissions from Stationary Sources - 1990 Estimates
(in thousand of tons per year)
S02                  NOx              Dust              C02 from boiler houses
No.     Voivodship             Total  from boiler   Total  from boiler  Total  from boiler
houses              houses               houses     million tons  ton/km2
1 POLAND                     3098        764       800       100      1950        519          132        421
3 Biala Podlaska                8          6         1          1        6           4          1.0       192
4 Bialystok                    31          15        6          2       24          10          2.6       257
5 Bielsko-Biala                36          14       10          2       52           9          2.4       651
6 Bydgoszcz                    82         29        27          4       76          20          5.0       482
7 Chelm                        10          5         5          1       23           3          0.9       223
8 Cienachow                    13          9         2          1        9           6          1.6       244
9 Czestochowa                  35          18        8          2       31          12          3.1       502
10 Elblag                       17          7         5          1       26           5          1.2       197
11 Gdansk                       70         30        20         4        50          21          5.2       698
12 Gorsow-Wielkopolski          19          7         7          1       30           5          1.2       142
13 Jelenia Gora                188          9        14          1      109           6          1.6       356
14 Kalisz                       22         14         4          2       18          10          2.4       372
15 Katowice                    582         80       175         10      327          54         13.8      2076
16 Kielce                       54         20        17          3       41          14          3.5       374
17 Konin                       139         11        26          1       72           8          1.9       371
18 1Koszalin                    14         11         2          1       11           8          1.9       223
19 lKrakow                      92         19        49          2       88          13          3.3      1006
20 Krosno                       12           6        4          1       11           4          1.0       181
21 Legnica                      77          10       11          1       51           7          1.7       425
22 Leszno                       17          12        3          2       12           8          2.1       499
25 Lodz                         69         27        17          4       51          18          4.7      3065
24 Lomza                        18           9        4          1       14           6          1.6       232
23 Lublin                       62         30        23          4       48          20          5.2       759
26 NowySacz                     14          12        3          2       11           8          2.1       371
27 Olsztyn                      24          18        4          2       16          12          3.1       251
28 Opole                        72          19       26          2       75          12          3.3       383
29 Ostroleka                    37           6       20          1       21           4          1.0       160
30OPila                         16           9        3          1       14           6          1.6       190
31 Piotrkow Trybunalski        367          16       79          2       50          11          2.8       440
32 Plock                        86          10       12          1       37           7          1.7       337
33 Poznan                       41         21         9          3       32          14          3.6       444
34 Przemysl                      8           5        2          1        6           4          0.9       194
35 Radom                       100          14       28          2       45           9          2.4       331
36 Rzeszow                      23          12        6          2       14           8          2.1       472
37 Siedlce                      16          13        2          2       12           9          2.2       264
38 Sieradz                      16           9        3          i       18           6          1.6       318
39 Skierniewice                 12           7        2          i        8           5          1.2       305
40 Slupsk                       11           6        2          1        7           4          1.0       139
41 Suwalski                     14           9        3          1       10           6          1.6       148
42 Szczecin                    124          20       32          3       72          14          3.5       345
43 Tarnobrzeg                  123          11       29          2       44           8          1.9       302
44 Tarnow                       30          10       16          1       35           7          1.7       416
45 Torun                        35          18        8          2       22          12          3.1       579
46 Walbrzych                    32          14        8          2       37           9          2.4       580
2 Warsaw                      114         54        34          7       97          37          9.3      2439
47 Wloclawek                    26          11        6          1       18           7          1.9       432
48 Wroclaw                      59         25        17          3       47          17          4.3       688
49 Zamosc                       12           7        2          1        7           5          1.2       173
50 Zielona Gora                 19          10        4          1       15           7          1.7       194
Source: Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, June 1993.
C02 emissions are estimated from 502 emissions accordina to the followina assumptions about coal used in boilerhouses:
sulfur content    o.80k         C02 emission factor         92 kg/GJ
sulfur emitted as S02  80%      Conversion factor          173 tC02/tSO2
calorific value    24 GJ/ton



Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Technology Options
Introduction
1.    This annex describes the technology options for converting existing coal-
fired boilers to natural gas-firing and for improving the energy efficiency of
the heat distribution and transfer systems and the end-user facilities served by
the converted boilers. The technology options considered under the GEF project
and summarized below are particular to the small scale heating systems, including
small heat-only-boilers (HOBs) and small combined heat and power (CHP) systems.
2.    Replacing coal with natural gas (which is principally methane) reduces
emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) per unit of heat produced by about 43 percent.
The reason is that natural gas, although it contains carbon, derives a greater
percentage of its heating value from its hydrogen content, which is greater than
that of coal, which is mostly carbon. When hydrogen burns, it yields only water,
an environmentally benign substance. Firing with natural gas permits use of more
efficient boilers, as well as even more effective and clean-burning engine and
gas-turbine powered CHP facilities. Use of gas virtually eliminates emissions
of pollutants of local and regional concern, such as particulates and sulfur
dioxide (SO2), and reduces nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions to no more than a few
percent of those that would occur with existing coal-fired boilers providing the
same service. Finally, for a new or complete replacement installation, firing
with natural gas from a gas delivery point at the site could reduce the
investment cost by half, as compared with the cost of new coal-fired facilities.
3.    Obiective.  This project would pioneer the reduction of atmospheric CO2
emissions from district heating HOBs in Poland by replacing coal with natural
gas. Emissions of CO2 already reduced through the use of a fuel with a lower
carbon content would be further reduced because of the improved fuel-use
efficiency opportunities in both boilers and modern CHP facilities, which are
made possible by natural gas.  The associated heat distribution and transfer
systems would be rehabilitated and upgraded, and energy-saving measures and
practices introduced in the end-user facilities served by the heating system to
complement and further improve overall system efficiency and concurrent
reductions of C02 emissions.
4.    ORRortunities.  Natural gas offers the opportunity for much higher boiler
efficiencies or for utilizing gas turbines (turbines) or piston engines (engines)
to drive electric power generators. These power-generating sets can be equipped
with unfired heat recovery boilers to meet district heating needs. Heat recovery
boilers require only modest quantities of additional fuel to meet peaking
requirements or to compensate for abnormal operating conditions, such as an
outage of the engine or gas turbine.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 9
5.    Where both electricity and heat can be produced at the same facility, such
modern CHP facilities burn less fuel and produce less CO2 for the same heating
input and for the same electric power and heat output as any commercial
technology available for meeting either demand separately. The electric power
generated may be sold and delivered to a power distributor, or it may be utilized
in the owner's facilities.
6.    At locations where CHP facilities are not feasible, high-efficiency gas-
fired HOBs can be used.   Condensing boilers are the most efficient of any
commercially available technology.
7.    Candidate Proiects.  The oldest boilers -- those at or near the end of
their useful life - - may be replaced either with newer, more efficient condensing
boilers or with gas turbine- or engine-powered CHP facilities. Boilers with a
substantial remaining useful life may be considered for modification to burn gas
and upgraded to improve efficiency as an alternative to replacing them with new
boilers. Further evaluations may indicate that some of these newer coal-fired
boilers could be suitable for upgrading and modification to serve as heat
recovery boilers for turbine or engine additions.
8.    Menu of Options.  Table 3-1 of this annex presents a non-exhaustive list
of conversion options for the different conditions at existing boilers and the
projected reductions in CO2 emissions and fuel use.  The comparisons are based
on a 1 MWt of useful heat delivered by the boiler.   The examples used for
comparison are generally representative of the performance that could be expected
for each system, but should not be considered as precise performance of a
specific design for a specific situation.
9.    Cost-Savings  - Accelerated  Implementation Schedule.    An accelerated
implementation schedule for converting existing boilers may be achieved by
arranging for a "standard" or "typical" conversion engineering package, to be
prepared for use by many interested parties. Furthermore, many of the conversion
technologies considered in this project may be largely pre-assembled and tested
so as to require minimum effort of on-site assembly.   The use of packaged
solutions would save time and resources.
10.   Market for the Technology Considered.  There are many manufacturers and
suppliers of small heating systems, and most of them offer design features
peculiar to the heating equipment (such as boiler, engine, turbine, heat
exchanger, automation and control) of that manufacturer or supplier. There are
also several "packagers" who engineer, assemble, test and supply ready-to-run
heating units.  This results in considerable variations in the technical and
environmental performance of the many heating systems in service that are offered
by the manufacturers,  suppliers and packagers.   Further, as new technology
develops, the design and assembling of heating equipment continues to be
improved.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 9
Boiler Technologies
11.   Condensing Economizers.  Condensing economizers are commercially available
and can be added to either new or existing boilers in good condition whether
fired with coal, oil or gas.   Condensing economizers recover heat at a lower
temperature by further cooling the combustion gases before they exit from the
chimney. At these lower temperatures the considerable quantities of water vapor
in the gases are condensed to liquid. The heat recovered from every 10 kilograms
of water vapor condensed saves about 1 kilogram of coal.
12.   These versatile devices are already proven in coal-fired boiler technology
and could be added to existing coal-fired boilers in good condition without
converting to natural gas. Although this approach falls outside the scope of
this GEF project, its feasibility should be considered because it may offer broad
opportunities to improve economically the efficiency of coal use and concurrently
reduce emissions from those boilers that may continue in operation for some
years.
13.   Conversion from Coal-firing to Natural Gas-firing.  Converting existing
coal-fired boilers in good condition to natural gas-firing, rehabilitating the
outer casing to control air in-leakage and adding commercially available high-
efficiency condensing economizers may be more economical than replacing some
boilers.    Substituting  clean  natural  gas  for  coal  would  avoid  future
deterioration  from  coal-firing.    With  proper  care  and maintenance,  this
substitution should extend boiler life for several years beyond what could be
achieved with coal-firing, significantly reduce emissions of CO2 and other
pollutants, and improve the efficiency of fuel use.
14.   One of the technologies considered in this project includes high efficiency
natural gas-fired condensing boilers with thermal efficiencies of up to 95
percent.    The  condensing boiler  is  designed  and  constructed  to  recover
essentially all available heat by cooling the combustion gases and, in addition,
recouping the heat released by the condensation of moisture within the boiler.
With proper care and maintenance, the service lifetime of this boiler should
substantially exceed that of coal-fired boilers. Unique design features include
greatly increased heat transfer surface, use of corrosion-resistant materials and
provisions for the collection and drainage of condensate. Condensing boilers
with efficiencies approaching 95 percent, with capacities of about 300-500
kilowatt-thermal (kWt), are available in Europe at about US$180/kWt at the
factory. This cost is about twice that of a gas-fired boiler of similar capacity
designed for about 84 percent thermal efficiency.
15.   Use of High-efficiency Boilers  together With Condensing Economizers.
Effective use of high efficiency boilers with add-on condensing economizers
requires some beneficial use of the near-ambient low level heat that can
potentially be recovered by these boilers. For example, when the return flow of
the heating system approximates 35°C, up to about half the heat from the
condensation of the moisture in the combustion gas could be recovered, depending
on specific conditions.   However,  if the warm return water from a district



Annex 3
Page 4 of 9
heating system reaches about 700C, much less heat from the condensation can be
recovered unless a supplementary cooling medium, such as, possibly outside air,
is drawn in for combustion through a condensing economizer serving as an air
pre-heater.
Gas Turbine and Engine Technologies
16.   Factory Pre-assembled "Packaged" Units.  Several equipment manufacturers
and some independent contractors offer complete, competently engineered packaging
services, including operation and testing of engine and turbine generator sets
with heat recovery boilers, including auxiliaries, at the assembly shop before
shipping.     The  "package"  option  minimizes  many  common  contractor  and
subcontractor problems and the time elapsed between placing an order to
commissioning and placing the equipment into commercial service.   Packaging
services are also available for boilers and for engine and turbine generating
sets.
17.   Gas turbines are similar to steam turbines in design and function except
that they utilize very hot gases, usually combustion gases, rather than steam.
They operate at gas inlet temperatures up to 1,3000C and even higher with the
newest machines.  Usually steam turbines operate at no more than about 500°C.
Efficiencies for gas turbine sets operating alone range from about 15 percent for
the smaller and lower inlet temperature machines (about 200 kilowatt-electric
(kWe)) to more than 40 percent for the newer and larger machines now available
in single shaft capacities of about 200 Megawatt-electric (MWe). Gas turbines
are probably best known as aircraft "jet" engines and "prime movers" for driving
electrical generators, but they also drive gas pipeline and refrigeration plant
compressor stations.
18.   Reciprocating (piston type) engines (engines) utilizing natural gas as fuel
operate efficiently, cleanly and reliably, releasing less C02 than their
petroleum-fueled counterparts. Their efficiencies range from about 20 percent
in the smaller capacity range (about 50 kWe) to about 40 % in larger capacities
(from about 1-10 MWe). Reciprocating engines are built up to about 50 MWe. Few,
if any, of the engines larger than about 5 MWe using natural gas are found in
commercial service.
19.   Unfired heat recovery boilers can be used to capture and utilize the
considerable quantities of energy rejected in turbine and engine exhaust gases
at about 450 to 5000C.  The percentage of heat rejected varies from about 60
percent of the total energy in the fuel burned for an engine or turbine (up to
perhaps 5 MWe) to about 85 percent for a small gas turbine (as low as 50 kWe).
The energy captured in heat recovery boilers can be effectively utilized for such
purposes as district heating or providing process steam for an industrial plant
without any need to burn additional fuel unless the heat requirement exceeds
about 1-2 Megawatt-thermal (MWt) of heat for every 1 MWe of electrical
generation, depending on specific system characteristics.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 9
20.   Advanced CHP units utilizing natural gas offer thermal efficiencies that
can approach 80 percent. Either a gas turbine or an engine drives an electrical
generator and exhausts to an unfired heat recovery boiler for supplying district
heat or industrial energy.
21.   The efficiencies achievable in heat recovery boilers in advanced CHP
systems will be limited by the temperature of the return water from the district
heating system unless special circumstances permit beneficial recovery and use
of this low level heat by an independent and unrelated activity (see para. 22
below). The reason is that warming the air intake of either a gas turbine or
engine will reduce both power and efficiency.
22.   There are several potential independent and supplementary uses for low-
level heat.   Low level heat energy leaving the heat recovery boiler (with
conventional boiler in which the gas exits at temperatures approximating 200°C
and possibly 110°C reject heat from the lubricating oil cooler) of engine-driven
generators could be recovered and utilized during the colder months to warm water
for aquaculture, to warm the soil for certain crops or to heat greenhouses if the
surrounding area either includes or could be developed to include facilities to
utilize this low-level heat.
Heat Distribution and Transfer Systems
23.   In many retrofit situations, the heat distribution and transfer systems
also provide opportunities for energy savings through the introduction of: (a)
very efficient adjustable speed drives for electric motors and conversion of
existing constant-flow district heat systems to variable flow, thereby minimizing
the pumping energy; (b) automation and control of consumer substation; (c)
upgrading and rehabilitation of thermal insulation to reduce heat losses and
introducing other modifications to reduce energy-consuming and unnecessary
resistance to flow in the distribution system; and (d) reduction of water and
heat losses through the repairs of leaks.   Depending on the severity of any
particular winter season, the condition of the piping insulation and other
factors, such measures could reduce consumption of electric power required to
pump energy by up to 50 percent and heat losses by 10-20 percent.
End-user Energy-Efficiency and Conservation Measures
24.   These measures pertain to apartments, offices, commercial establishments,
classrooms, auditoriums, in-door recreation facilities, kitchens and lunchrooms
frequently  served by  district  heating  systems.    They  can  reduce  energy
consumption while maintaining or improving the level of service and comfort.
Improving the energy-efficiency of the end-uses served by boilers that are
candidates for coal-to-gas conversion can further reduce C02 emissions. Possible
methods for improving end-use energy-efficiency can include: (a) improving the
internals of the buildings (such as the heat transfer, distribution and control
systems in the buildings); (b) the addition of energy-efficient building
equipment (glazing, insulation and the like); (c) the installation of energy-
efficient electric appliances; and (d) changing the behavior of the users. While



Annex 3
Page 6 of 9
improvements in the heat distribution and transfer systems and in the end-use
facilities are not "coal-to-gas technology" options, such energy-efficiency
improvements become an integral part of any systems approach to boiler
conversions.
25.   Personal  initiatives  to  lessen  the  waste  of  energy  and  low-cost
modifications can reduce energy waste by 10 percent.   The GEF coal-to-gas
conversion project would focus primarily on low-cost easy-to-capture improvements
in end-use efficiency, which would produce an estimated reduction in heat demand
of about  10 percent.    These measures  could  include  the  installation of
individually controllable thermostats and thermometers in each room, training of
building occupants/users in energy conservation, and use of either clear plastic
film or insulating drapery fabrics, or both, for window insulation. Perhaps most
important, financial responsibility for energy use should be assigned to
individual apartment occupants by installing heat energy meters for each
apartment building and cost-sharing devices (such as low-cost evaporator meters)
in each individual apartment unit so that billing can be based on actual energy
consumed.   Such occupant/user initiatives combined with low-cost devices to
assist in occupant/user energy conservation initiatives are planned for the two
GEF pilot projects in Krakow and the follow-on investments to be identified under
this project.
26.   More costly additional energy-efficiency and conservation measures can
result in total energy reductions approximating 30 percent. These added measures
include: (a) improvements in the insulation of the building envelope (roof, walls
(including windows and doors) and floor); and (b) use of more energy-efficient
electrical lighting and appliances. These measures are not included in the plans
for individual coal-to-gas conversion projects for existing buildings.   By
inference from studies in Poland and elsewhere, however, improvements in the
efficiency of building equipment, controls and operations can reduce heat demand
by 20-30 percent or more on a cost-effective basis from a national perspective.
Attaining such large reductions in heat demand as a result of improvements in
end-use efficiency is not a primary focus of this coal-to-gas conversion project.
However, funding to obtain such large reductions in heat demand for selected
projects could be obtained via collaboration with other programs.   In this
context, the coal-to-gas conversion project can be viewed as part of a larger
program of improved energy use, lower energy costs and an overall reduction in
C02 emissions.  To achieve its objectives, the coal-to-gas conversion project
complements, but does not substitute for, action under existing programs in
Poland.
27.   Measures toward energy-efficiency in new residential buildings.  Although
not part of the coal-to-gas conversion component, improvements in the energy
efficiency of new residential buildings also offer an ideal opportunity to
influence quickly and strongly future investments to the benefit of global
environmental objectives. The aim would be to demonstrate that cost-effective
energy-efficiency measures in new residential buildings can produce significant
reductions in C02 emission in the residential/household sector in Poland by
introducing cost-effective energy efficiency measures, where the measures meet
standards above the current ones for buildings in Poland.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
28.   Some of the measures to be considered during the architectural design of
new buildings are: (a) alternatives for the envelope systems of the buildings,
including insulation and window options, use of large energy-efficient panel
construction techniques, thermal breaks, and the latest glazing and framing
technologies; (b) alternatives for the internals of buildings, including
lighting, heat control/distribution/measurement, and ventilation systems; (c)
appliances with differing levels of energy-efficiency (especially refrigerators);
(d) alternative construction practices for major buildings; (e) alternative
operation and maintenance strategies to increase energy efficiency for major
buildings, including structures and procedures for paying bills for electricity,
space heating, domestic hot water and service water, as well as innovative ideas
for measuring and controlling the consumption of electricity, gas and heat; (f)
alternative financing mechanisms through grant or low-interest loans to induce
developers or individual owniers to undertake energy-efficiency measures in the
architectural design of new residential buildings; and (g) alternative repayment
mechanisms based on actual energy savings, in the case of loans supporting energy
efficiency.
29.   It is proposed that the present GEF project would finance energy-efficiency
measures in new residential buildings. The GEF financing would also be made on
a grant basis. The amount of incremental GEF funding would be determined case-
by-case, based on: (a) an energy audit of the initial architectural design and
efficiency of the building; and (b) an analysis of the cost effectiveness and
environmental impacts of alternative energy-efficiency measures to be included,
using typical Polish building construction, operation and maintenance practices
and current energy efficiency standards for buildings as the base case.
Environmental Benefits
30.   The project would demonstrate how substituting natural gas for coal and
utilizing gas-fired high-efficiency boilers and natural gas-fueled engine or gas
turbine-powered CHP plants can reduce CO2 emissions from district heating plants.
The advanced technologies demonstrated in the two GEF pilot projects in Krakow
would be replicated several times to demonstrate their commercial feasibility and
to provide a database on industrial and institutional experience in planning,
financing, construction and continuing operation. This database would include
information on initial and continuing costs and environmental improvements.
31.   In addition, major reductions in the emissions of pollutants of local and
regional concern would be achieved. Essentially 100 percent reductions in the
emissions of SO2 and particulates are expected; and depending on the equipment
used and on whether a de-NOx system is installed, NOx emissions can be reduced
to only a few percentage points of the levels emitted by the coal previously
burned.
32.   The  indirect  environmental  benefits  include  reductions  in  surface
disturbances such as subsidence, accumulations of mining and cleaning plant
wastes that result from mining, cleaning and transportation of the displaced coal
and the disposal of coal ash.



Annex 3
Page 8 of 9
33.   Coincidental environmental benefits are also anticipated: The technologies
can be used beneficially and efficiently to burn collected methane from municipal
refuse landfills, sewage digestors and coal seams. That methane would otherwise
escape into the atmosphere.   Compared with CO2 emitted into the atmosphere,
methane has about 21 times the global warming potential of CO2, on a mass basis
and over a 100-year time horizon.
Considerations Affecting Choice of Engines or Gas Turbines for CHP Installations
34.   Efficiencies.  In the expected capacity range of the CHP projects to be
supported under the GEF project (about 500 kWe to 2 MWe), the engines are
generally somewhat more efficient and can be modestly less costly than gas
turbines. When the economic value of electric power is high and provides the
financial incentives to generate electric power, small engines are frequently
chosen over turbines because of their higher efficiencies.
35.   Relative Power and Heat Requirements.  Because of their greater efficiency
in generating electricity, engine-generator sets generally reject less heat than
a gas turbine does. A 1 MWe gas turbine-generator set may reject 2 MWt or more
at about 500°C, while an engine of the same capacity may reject 1-1.5 MWt.
Exhaust from the engine approximates 5000C, but 30-40 percent of the engine's
reject heat is from general engine cooling, generally at about 100-120°C.
36.   Flexibility of Power and Heat Ratings.  If there are compelling reasons to
select an engine rather than a gas turbine, or if there is reason to choose a
generator set with electrical capacity that results in a shortfall in the supply
of exhaust heat, supplemental boiler firing or additional HOBs can be installed
at modest cost to provide more thermal output. Supplemental firing would likely
be required in any case to meet peak heating needs and as an emergency heat
source in case there is a forced turbine or engine outage during very cold
weather.
37.   Availability of Spare Parts and Experienced Personnel.  Ready availability
of spare parts and a pool of trained and experienced operating and maintenance
personnel are important considerations in the choice of an engine or turbine.
38.   Sensitivities  to  Air  Quality.  Fuel  Purity  and  Noise  Suppression
Requirements. Gas turbines are more sensitive to particulates in the intake air
and in the fuel than are engines, but either prime mover will require air and
fuel filters. Since small district heating plants are likely to be located in
populated areas, intake and exhaust silencers are a likely necessity. A system
for reducing the NOx in exhaust gases may be required. Where the pressure of the
natural gas supply is low, as in the case in Krakow, a gas compressor that raises
the pressure of the supply to the gas turbine would be required.  The energy
required for gas compression can lower the efficiency of the set by about 2
percent.



Annex 3
Page 9 of 9
39.   Flexibility for Utilizing Reiect Heat from Gas Turbine Generator Sets.
Gas turbine generator sets offer additional flexibility for utilizing reject
heat.    The  options  include  the  use  of high-temperature  heat  exchangers
(recuperators) to "recycle" the exhaust heat from the turbine back to the
combustor to reduce the fuel requirements and increase the efficiency of
electrical generation. Alternatively, the exhaust heat can be used to generate
steam for injection into the gas turbine to increase the power output by about
15-20 percent. Either option can be employed continuously or intermittently when
the exhaust heat is not needed for other purposes. During the warmer months when
the supply of electric power is needed and the supply of heat is not needed, some
CHP facility operators find it attractive to utilize absorption refrigeration
chillers to cool the inlet air to the turbine to improve compressor efficiency
and maintain full generator output.
40.   Other Options for Utilizing Reject Heat from Either Engine or Gas Turbine
Generator Sets. Absorption refrigeration chillers that utilize the exhaust heat
from either gas turbine or engine generator sets can provide cooling for such
applications  as hotels,  resorts  and hospitals.    Some  space  conditioning
requirements, such as cooling in summer and heating in winter, could permit
beneficial year-round utilization of the reject heat from either gas turbine or
engine generator sets.
41.   Costs.  A CHP gas turbine generator or engine-powered generator set with
a heat recovery boiler and control station may cost about $1,100-1,600 per kWt
(installed), where the electrical generating capacity is in the range of 500 kWe
to 2 MWe. The cost differences between turbines and the more reliable slower
speed engines are likely to be less significant.
42.   Future Technologv Prospects.   Manufacturing and research organizations
continue to improve the technologies for engines, boilers, and gas turbines. The
field of large-capacity gas turbines has had some of the more dramatic recent
developments, including the introduction of higher inlet temperatures, improved
reliability, improvements in cycle efficiency and reduction in NOx emissions.
Related developments continue in the engine and boiler fields, and technologies
that reduce NOx emissions even further appear likely. Hopefully these impressive
developments will later be applied to the smaller capacity machines of interest
to the GEF project.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Existing boilers, Conditions, Conversion Options and Projected Results
Heat Output for all cases normalized to 1 MWt
Electricity production, if any is in addition to heat output
PRESENT STATUS OF EXISTING BOILERS                                                                EXAMPLES OF NEW STATUS IF IMPLEMENTED
REMAINING  EFFI-  OPTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION                              REMAINING  EFFI-  CO-2 EMISSIONS REDUCTION             FUEL USE REDUCTION
FUEL   AGE  CONDITION          LIFE    CIENCY          AND EVALUATION            FUEL  CONDITION        LIFE    CIENCY            kg/hour CO-2                    kcal/hour
(YEARS)      9k                  /a                                      (YEARS)    °A    BEFCRE   AFTER  PERCENT  BEFORE  AFTER  PERCENT
Coal    ----      ----        ----         100      Convert from coal to gas     Gas       ----         ----        100      317         178       44°k      860       860        0Ol
(BASE CASE - Impact of type of
fuel alone on CO-2 formation)
Coal  Middle    Good         Several        65     Reduce casing air leakage     Coal      Good        Several       85      488         373       240/0    1,324    1.012       24°A
Add high efficiency economizer
Burn cleaned low sulfur coal
Improve fly ash collectors
Coal    New    Excellent      Many          85     Reduce casing air leakage     Gas    Excellent      Many          90      373         198       470/A    1,012      956        6°/
Add condensing economizer
Convert to gas firing
Remove & replace with
Coal    Old       Poor      Few/none        50         condensing boiler         Gas       New         Many          95      635         188       70%      1,721      906       47%
Remove & replace with
Coal    Old       Fair      Few/none        50       reciprocating engine         Gas      New         Many          78      810 /b      365       55°      3.259    1.761       460A
and heat recovery boiler         (Output - same heat as before
plus 590 kWe of electuicity
Remove & replace vwith
Coal    Old       Fair      Few/none        50            gas turbine             Gas  I   New         Many          78      744 /b      313       58t    2.678       1.511      44
and heat recovery boiler         (Output - same heat as before
_____    _______________    _________    ______   ________________________               plus  314  IrWe  otfelec uicity)             _________           __ls3 4k eo_lcrc
Notes:    /a   Actual results of implementing options would depend on specific site conditions and design decisions.                                                                           f8X
lb   Carbon dioxide emissions before modifications include those from conventional coal fired power stations
resulting from generating same quantity of electric power as the new facility



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Criteria for Eligibility and Selection of Priorities
Among Coal-to-Gas Conversion Projects
and Energy Efficiency Projects in New Residential Buildings
Introduction
1.    This annex provides the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS), the implementing
agency, and the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) with a set of
criteria for eligibility and priorities for the selection of boiler coal-to-gas
conversion projects and energy efficiency projects in new residential buildings.
Developed during the appraisal of the pilot projects in Krakow, these criteria
should be refined and amended as individual projects develop in order to address
continuously the cost-effectiveness of the GEF project activity and ensure its
consistency with the global environmental performance objective.  STAP would have
the mandate to review and amend these criteria, as needed.   These criteria
supplement the generic criteria developed by the Bank-GEF/STAP in May, 1992.1/
Bank-GEF/STAP Criteria for Eligibility and Selection of Priorities
2.    The criteria listed in the first three main categories below have been
adapted and condensed from the document on selection criteria for GEF projects
produced by the Bank-GEF STAP.
3.    General GEF Criteria.   The following are the general GEF criteria for
projects involving emission of greenhouse gases (from GEF Criteria, 4.0, by Bank-
GEF STAP, May 1992):
(a)   Decision-makers should have available a growing list of technologies
offering the greatest emission reductions at the lowest potential
cost.
(b)   Efforts should be made to promote the general use of the technology
in cases where the technology, the economics or the market are not
yet "right."
(c)   GEF funding should be provided  to encourage  the  inclusion of
technologies with global environmental benefits in the decision
portfolio.
4.    Additional GEF Criteria.  The following is an additional GEF criterion for
the eligibility of projects relative to reductions in emissions of greenhouse
l/  "Criteria for Eligibility and Priorities for Selection of Global Environmental Facility Projects,' Global
Environmental Facility, Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel, Nairobi, May 1992.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
gases (from GEF Criteria, 4.1.1, by Bank-GEF STAP, May 1992).  This GEF criterion
relates to specific emission reduction technologies (ERTs):
(a)   Mainstream financing would not otherwise be available in-country and
locally as lenders and owners would not consider the technology
(such as high-efficiency boiler and cogeneration unit) to be ready
for support. GEF funding would be crucial to the implementation of
the ERT.
5.    GEF Replicability Criteria.  To ensure replicability, the project should
have (from Bank-GEF Criteria, 4.1.2, by GEF STAP, May 1992):
(a)   A well-developed plan for documentation that would result in the
preparation of complete implementation packages, including hardware
and software (policies, policy instruments, policy agents,
institutions, financing, management, and so on).
(b)   A well-developed plan for performance evaluation, including specific
plans for monitoring the measures taken to reduce greenhouse gases,
their effectiveness (monitoring before and after conversion) and
their cost-effectiveness.
Specific Eligibility Criteria and Selection of Priorities Among Coal-to-Gas
Conversion Projects
6.    Eligible  Individual  Boiler  Proiects.        Boilers  eligible  for  GEF
consideration are non-industrial boilers supplying heat, domestic hot water
and/or steam to residential and institutional district heating systems.
Potential beneficiaries could be public institutions, public and private non-
industrial enterprises, such as housing cooperatives, district heating
enterprises, and hospitals. Boilers supplying industry premises with steam for
industrial processes would not be considered under the present GEF project.
7.    Conversion technology considerations. The approved approach for the Poland
GEF project is the conversion of coal-fired heating boilers of small and medium-
size capacity to natural gas-firing.   The technologies used to implement the
program must be innovative to qualify. Innovative in this context refers to
technologies not as yet introduced to any significant extent in Poland but that
are in widespread commercial use in Western countries. The technologies that
meet this criterion are: (a) high-efficiency natural gas-fired boilers, of non-
condensing and condensing type; and (b) natural gas-fired cogeneration plants
utilizing either reciprocating engines or gas turbines and supplying heat and
electricity. The normal acceptable heat input should be in the range 1-15 MWt.
Ranges below 1 MWt would also be acceptable.
8.    Diversity  in Technologies  to Reduce  Emissions  of Greenhouse  Gases.
Diversity is important because of the importance of developing a record of
experience with different technologies and a database that can be used to verify
which of the energy efficiency and conservation measures have proven the most



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
practical and cost-effective in Poland for reducing emissions of greenhouse
gases. Priority would be given to conversion projects that add to the diversity
of energy efficiency and conservation measures believed to be effective
technologies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions under the GEF coal-to-gas
conversion project.
9.    Internal Rate of Return.  From the point of view of the boiler owner, a
conversion project, including energy efficiency improvements (see paras. 14 and
15 below), should be financially attractive. A financial tool for measuring this
attractiveness is the boiler owner's required internal rate of return (IRR). The
IRR will be calculated on the incremental cash flows between a GEF project case
and a reference case (see para. 12).   The amount of GEF financing would be
determined as the capital subsidy required to bring the rate of return on boiler
conversion up to the boiler owner's required IRR.  For the first year of the
proposed GEF coal-to-gas conversion project, the hurdle rate would be set at 25
percent. As follow-up conversion projects develop, STAP would annually review
the appropriateness of this hurdle rate and may propose a change to reflect the
changes in conditions in Poland. Any change in the rate would be subject to the
prior approval by the Bank and would become effective for the following year.
10.   Amount of the GEF Grant.  The amount of the GEF grant would be equal to the
present value of the incremental capital investment costs of the GEF-supported
conversion project minus the present value of the savings in operating costs over
the project's service life, discounted at the boiler owner's required IRR.
11.   Cost-Effectiveness of a Conversion Technology.   This accounting tool
permits a comparison, from the country's point of view, of the economic costs and
expected global warming benefits associated with the GEF-supported conversion
project (GEF project case), on the one hand, and the costs and emissions of the
best conventional alternative that could be implemented without GEF support
(reference case),  on the other hand.   It is defined as the ratio of the
annualized GEF capital subsidy to the expected annual quantity of carbon dioxide
(CO2) emissions avoided over the life of the project.   It is measured in US
dollars per ton of CO2 emissions reduced.  The economic costs include capital
investment, operation and maintenance,  labor and fuel.   Priority conversion
project applicants would be determined based on a competitive cost-effectiveness
ratio. The lower the ratio is, the higher the priority of the conversion project
is.  For purposes of calculating the cost-effectiveness ratio, a 12 percent
annuity rate shall be used over a project economic life of 17 years.
12.   The Reference Case.  The reference case would depend on: (a) the in-country
conditions prevailing at the time the technical and economic analysis is made,
especially with respect to energy prices, labor costs and environmental emission
charges; (b) the conditions within the project region, especially with respect
to local environmental requirements, priorities, and fees and fines for
emissions; and (c) site-specific conditions.   For existing boilers that are
candidates for coal-to-gas conversion, it must be demonstrated that, from the
boiler owner's point of view: (a) replacement of the existing heat facility with
a new coal-fired boiler is financially more attractive than continuing to operate



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
the existing facility in the same pre-conversion conditions; and (b) this
replacement is less attractive than a gas-fired option. This replacement assumes
that the re-engineering of the overall heat supply and transfer systems must take
advantage of privately profitable energy efficiency improvements.
13.   Boiler Candidates.  The following criteria would apply to existing boilers
that are candidates for conversion:
(a)   If the conversion project involves an existing coal-fired boiler,
the boiler should have a track record of operations (converting a
non-functioning   boiler   would   not   reduce   CO2   emissions).
Documentation should be provided to demonstrate that the boiler has
been in operation over the last three years with at least 1,750
equivalent full-load hours per year.
(b)   The boiler unit capacity should not exceed 5 MWt, with a total
capacity of 15 MWt per boiler house.
(c)   The pre-conversion heat demand, supplied by the boiler that is a
candidate for conversion, would be required after the conversion and
for the economic life of the converted boiler.
(d)   The age of the candidate boiler must exceed 12 years.
(e)   There are no reasonable and cost-effective alternatives to replacing
the boiler. The option of eliminating the boiler and linking the
building facilities served by this boiler to a nearby district
heating system should not be present. If a nearby district heating
system exists, documentation must be provided as to why linkage to
the system is not feasible.
(f)   The cost of accessing an adequate and reliable gas supply network
must be justified on the basis of project economics and not reduced
emissions of greenhouse gases.
14.   Heat Distribution and Transfer Systems. The following criteria would apply
to the heat distribution and transfer systems associated with existing boilers
that are candidates for conversion:
(a)   The general physical condition should be adequate for the basic
system to continue in reliable operation, except for conventional
maintenance, for the economic life of the conversion project.
(b)   The project proposal must include economically justifiable measures
for improved energy efficiency in the heat distribution and transfer
systems.   Heat distribution and transfer systems requiring major
replacement of piping, rebuilding or restoration would not be
eligible for GEF funding.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
15.   User Facilities (Apartment Buildings and/or Institutions). The following
criteria would apply to the user facilities supplied by existing boilers that are
candidates for conversion:
(a)   The facilities should have an adequate future lifespan to ensure the
cost-effectiveness  of conversion.   The expected useful life of
heating demand facilities must be greater than or equal to the life
expectancy of the converted boiler (a minimum of 20 years).
(b)   The general structural condition must be sound so that the basic
system  would  continue  in  reliable  use  over  the  life  of  the
conversion project without major rehabilitation.  User facilities
requiring  major  rehabilitation  would  not  be  eligible  for GEF
funding.
(c)   Only cost-effective energy retrofit measures for existing building
facilities would be part of the applicable boiler conversion
project.
16.   Least-cost Criteria.   A project proposal should cover the conversion of
the coal-fired boiler to gas firing and the installation of cost-effective energy
efficiency measures in the associated heat distribution and transfer systems and
in the end-user facilities served by the boiler.  If included in the project,
improved energy efficiency in the heat distribution and transfer systems and in
end-user facilities could result in a downsizing of the replacement boiler. The
cost savings from boiler downsizing may be included in the economic justification
of the energy efficiency improvements.   Because of a number of constraints
affecting boiler sizing and efficiency, only 67 percent of the downsizing shall
be used when calculating the economic benefits from the downsizing. To implement
only cost-effective energy efficiency measures, the costs of improvements in the
heat distribution, transfer and end-user systems shall not exceed 67 percent of
the avoided costs of the boiler downsizing.
17.   Eligibility Criteria for New Projects or for Mixed Existing and New
Projects. These criteria would apply to new boilers for which procurement of
equipment and installation has not yet started. If the new boiler is planned to
use coal as a fuel (reference case), then the conversion to gas-firing technology
(GEF project case) would be eligible for GEF financing. If the new boiler is
planned to burn natural gas in a conventional boiler technology (reference case),
then the conversion to a higher efficiency gas-fired boiler (GEF project case)
would be eligible for GEF financing. In both cases, improvements in the heat
distribution, transfer and end-user systems (existing and new) should be
integrated in the project proposal so to achieve the required TRR.
18.   Eligibility Criteria for Boiler Owner.  The local BOS office should certify
the boiler owner's financial, management and operating capabilities based on
examination of financial stc.tements, operating records and/or a personal
interview.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
19.   Environmental Considerations.  The following criteria would apply to the
environmental requirements for conversion projects:
(a)   They must meet all local and national environmental requirements.
(b)   They must yield reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases greater
than those that could be achieved by economically justified measures
only.
20.   Proiect-wide Consideration.  The following criteria would apply for all
conversion projects:
(a)   The local BOS office should certify that the owners,  apartment
tenants  and  local  government  support  the  project  and  that
responsible opposition is absent.
(b)   The project proposal should be prepared for the owner by a licensed
engineering firm or a registered individual expert.
(c)   The conversion project must be completed within two years.   The
project implementation period shall begin with the date the owner is
notified that STAP has accepted the project proposal.
Specific Eligibility Criteria and Selection of Priorities Among Energy Efficiency
Projects in New Residential Buildings
21.   Criteria. The following criteria would apply to project applicants for the
Energy Efficiency Fund (EE Fund). Created under the GEF project this fund would
finance energy efficiency projects for new residential buildings:
(a)   The EE Fund would finance all measures that increase the energy
efficiency of the building above the level required by Polish
Housing Energy Efficiency Standards.  Measures could include: (i)
improving the building's internals such as heat automation and
control; (ii) improving the building's externals such as insulation
for the foundation, floor, walls, roof, doors and glazing; (iii)
energy-efficient electric appliaaces; and (iv) consumer information
on energy conservation awareness and efficient consumption.
(b)   Applicants must have secured construction financing.
(c)   Housing projects for which construction has already started could
still be eligible for the EE Fund if the construction of the walls
and the procurement of windows and internal equipment have not yet
started.   Any construction above the foundations would make the
project applicant ineligible for the EE Fund.
(d)   The base case energy-efficiency shall meet or exceed applicable
current national building energy codes. Ultimately, certification



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
must be provided that the insulation and glazing products have
adequate specification and meet the minimum quality requirements for
attaining the expected energy savings.
(e)   Alternative  energy-efficiency  cases   for  insulation  of  the
foundation, floor, walls, roof, doors and glazing and for internal
equipment should be examined to meet higher energy-efficiency
building standards (similar to current German or Swedish standards)
for the building types involved.
(f)   An energy audit should be prepared for the owner by a licensed
building energy audit firm or individual expert and submitted with
the proposal.
(g)   Project applicants should agree to follow, as much as possible, the
recommendations of the energy audit concerning consumption behavior.
22.   Cost-Effectiveness of the Energv-Efficiency Projects.  The expected energy
savings resulting from the increased energy efficiency in the building/housing
complex would lead to a reduction in C02 emissions at the heat and electricity
sources supplying this complex. The cost-effectiveness of the housing energy
efficiency project would be calculated by dividing the annualized incremental
investment required to increase the energy efficiency of the housing project
above current national building energy standards by the expected annual quantity
of C02 emissions avoided over the service life of the building.  For simplicity
of calculation, annual operating and maintenance costs for new buildings with and
without energy efficiency measures shall be assumed equal. A 50-year service
life shall be used for this estimation.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Selection of the First GEF Boiler Pilot Projects
First GEF Pilot Projects
1.    Preparation of the first GEF coal-to-gas conversion projects is critical
to establish the organizational and technical framework and build up the
institutional capability to replicate the GEF coal-to-gas concept throughout
Poland. To facilitate GEF project preparation, the city of Krakow was selected
for the initial GEF coal-to-gas operation.  Its selection was justified because
of the availability of a database the Bank could use on small and medium-size
coal-fired boilers and on the results of a boiler elimination program carried out
under various technical programs. Further, the boiler houses in Krakow represent
typical unit sizes and technologies  found in other cities  in Poland.   A
discussion of this background follows.
Krakow - Boiler House Survey
2.    Krakow is situated in the most polluted region in Poland, the southern
region. Most of the pollution in Krakow originates from emission sources with
low stacks.   These sources,  consisting of coal-fired stoves and coal-fired
boilers, contribute more than 30 percent of the emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2)
and a significant part of the emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), and are the
primary sources of particulates and carbon monoxide (CO). Because of Krakow's
poor natural ventilation and temperature inversions, these sources have a major
impact on air quality during the winter, especially in the downtown area of the
city where access to a district heating network is not yet available.
3.    Under a US$20.0 million grant-financed assistance package from the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Voivodship and the
municipality of Krakow are undertaking a program aimed at: (a) improving the air
quality in Krakow through the introduction of clean coal technologies; (b)
reducing the demand for space heating by improving building thermal efficiency;
(c) switching to alternative network fuels (district heat, electricity and
natural gas) wherever possible; and (d) installing a flue-gas desulfurization
unit in an old power plant, Skawina. This program is known as the Krakow Clean
Fossil Fuels and Energy Efficiency Project.
4.    As part of this assistance,  the Krakow Bureau of City Planning has
completed a survey of low-stack emission sources. There are about 130,000 coal
stoves (with a total capacity of 394 MWt) and about 1,300 small coal-fired boiler
houses (or 2,929 boiler units, with a total capacity of 1,065 MWt) within the
city alone. This survey-shows that more than 60 percent of the coal stoves and
48 percent of the boiler houses are situated in downtown Krakow.
5.    The boiler units that qualify as low-stack emission sources have heat
output capacities ranging from a few kilowatt-thermal (50 kWt) to 2,200 kWt, an
average for the higher capacity units. The frequency distribution of the boiler
unit size is skewed at both extremes of the range of boiler unit sizes
considered: (a) toward the 50-500 kWt range, with about 2,640 boilers (550 MWt



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
total capacity) within this range; and (b) 216 boilers (463 MWt total capacity)
with unit sizes above 1.0 MWt (see Figure 5-1 of this annex).  Boiler efficiency
is about 55-65 percent for the smaller units (below 1.0 MWt) and about 75 percent
maximum for the larger ones (above 1.0 MWt).
6.    The boiler houses supply more than 35 percent of the heat demand in Krakow,
produce about 6,768 Terajoule (TJ) and consume about 10,659 TJ of the fuel used
equivalent to about 429,000 tons of coal and coke combined. The average coal
used in these boilers contains about 0.8 percent sulfur and 21 percent ash. On
average, the boiler houses emit about 6,863 tons of SO2 and 10,653 tons of
particulates annually.   About 36 percent of the total carbon dioxide  (CO2)
emissions from the boiler houses in the Voivodship of Krakow, or 1.19 million
tons of C02, is emitted annually from downtown Krakow's entire heat-only-boiler
(HOB) capacity of 1,065 MWt.  Figure 5-2 of this annex presents estimates for the
CO2 emissions for each boiler unit size.
7.    The coal-fired boilers can also be categorized on the basis of their firing
method. In terms of capacity, almost half the boilers in Krakow are manually
fired and use primary coke (with a calorific value of about 6,750 kilocalorie per
kilogram (kcal/kg)); the other half are mechanically fired and use high-grade
hard coal (with a calorific value of 5,250 kcal/kg).  There are about 2,585 hand-
fired units (548 MWt total capacity) and 344 mechanically fired units (517 MWt
total capacity). The hand-fired boilers produce about 45 percent (3,049 TJ) of
the heat energy demand supplied by the boiler houses in Krakow and consume 52
percent (5,544 TJ, equivalent to 197,000 tons) of the fuel used (coke and coal
combined).   They are responsible for 63 percent of the ash emissions (6,690
tons). The balance of the heat energy demand (about 55 percent or 3,719 TJ) is
supplied by the mechanically fired boilers. They consume 48 percent (5,115 TJ,
equivalent to 233,000 tons) of the fuel used (coke and coal combined) and are
responsible for 54 percent of the SO2 emissions (3,724 tons) and CO2 emissions
(644,000 tons).
8.    As part of the USAID technical assistance (see para. 3), preliminary tests
carried out on typical coal-fired boilers and coal stoves, with extrapolation to
the whole population of low-stack emission sources, showed that coal stoves
contribute as much as coal-fired boilers to the emissions of particulates and a
third of the CO and NOx emissions. Mechanical-fired boilers have the largest
share of S02 and NOx emissions.
9.    S02, NOx,  CO and particulates have adverse effects on health,  causing
respiratory and heart diseases, bronchitis and cancer. The frequency of these
diseases among the population in Krakow is among the highest in Poland. It is
therefore urgent that mitigating actions to alleviate the adverse impact of these
low-stack emission sources and improve the air quality in Krakow be undertaken.
Strategy for Reducing Environmental Emissions in Krakow
10.   Improving the air quality in Krakow can be better achieved by reducing the
emissions of SO, and particulates through the elimination of local boilers and
using cogenerated heat from existing combined heat and power plants in Krakow.
From the total 1,065 MWt HOB capacity in downtown Krakow, about 578 MWt (or 54
percent) could be eliminated and connected to the district heating system, 220
MWt (or 21 percent) converted to gas-firing and 100 MWt (or 9 percent) to oil-



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
firing, and 167 MWt (or 16 percent) retrofitted. All these measures would, inter
alia, contribute to reducing C02 emissions from Krakow.
Selection of the Pilot Projects and Recommended Conversion Technologies
11.   A first screening of 25 boiler houses in Krakow and site inspections were
made on the basis of boiler unit size, age, efficiency, accessibility to district
heating and gas networks, and potential for replicability.   After this first
screening, a technical and economic analysis was performed to select the sites
for which the highest performance indicator (tons of C02 reduced per dollar
invested) can be achieved and for which various innovative technology options can
be implemented.
12.   Two sites were finally selected, each representing a typical boiler unit
size found in Poland.   For each site, a specific conversion technology was
recommended. For the 0.2-0.5 MWt unit size range, conversion to a modern gas-
fired condensing boiler was recommended, whereas for the 1.1-2.9 MWt range, an
optimum supply mix, consisting of a base-load small gas-fired cogeneration unit
together with peak hot water boilers and steam boilers, was developed.   A
detailed description of the pilot projects is provided in Annex 6.
The Importance of the Pilot Projects for Documentation, Training and Replicability
13.   The pilot projects are important vehicles for testing and implementing key
project procedures,  application forms and training.   In this context,  the
experience of the pilot projects must be carefully tracked, documented and
evaluated.
14.   Documentation.  Procedures should be revised, based on experience with the
pilot projects. In particular, each problem that surfaces needs to be documented
and solutions to each problem built into the procedures and checklists for
subsequent projects.
15.   Replicability.  For example, application forms should request information
about boiler sizes, loads and fuels used, including sample fuel invoices as
feasible.   Site visits should confirm sizes, loads and fuels.   Problems have
already arisen in the pilot projects because of incorrect or incomplete
information relative to project applicability.   A case in point is that the
owners in both the pilot projects indicated the use of coal fuel during the pre-
feasibility studies, yet coke was being used. Likewise, information about the
size and mix of new residential housing projects has changed substantially upon
review. Lessons learned from such problems need to be incorporated into future
projects.
16.   Training.   The pilot projects provide opportunities for training key
participants in GEF project activities.
17.   Refinements.    Additional  technical  assistance  requirements  would be
identified during completion of the pilot projects. The above description of
activities would be refined as needed as part of the replicability of project
activities.



Annex 5
Figures 5-1  & 5-2
Krakow - Boiler Survey
Distribution of Boiler Unit Size
Number of Boilers
700
Average Unit  Number    Total
600 _                 Firing Metho         Size, kW     of Unit  Capacity MW
Hand Firing             212         2,585       648
500 -                Mechanical Firing      1,505          344        517
400-
300-
200
100
0
sO    150   250   350   450   550   650   750   850   950             >1000
Average Unit Capacity, kWt                   FIGURE5-1
Krakow Bureau of City Planning, 1992
Estimates of Carbon Dioxide Emissions
from Boilerhouses in Krakow
In tons (Thousands)
6 0 0   _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _   _
60Firing Method    Coal Uses Annual Emissions. In thousand tons
(000 tons)   SQ2      Particulates       2
500  Hand firing            196        3.1           6.7         543
Mechanical firing     233         3.7          4.0         644
400    Total                429        6.8          10.7       1,187
300 -
200
100  *
50    150   250   350   450   550   650   750   850   950             1000
Average Unit Capacity, kWt
World Bank Estimates, March 1994



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Description of the Krakow Pilot Projects
Existing Facilities
1.    The two pilot projects, as described below, are located at Jana Street and
at Warszawska Street and Heclow Street.  In the rest of the annex, the pilot
projects are referred to by the name of the street (Jana and Warszawska) on which
they are located.
2.    Jana Street.  The boiler house, located in the old city center of Krakow,
belongs to the municipal district heating enterprise of Krakow (MPEC Krakow) and
supplies old buildings and the City Office. It comprises 7 coal-fired boiler
units of the cast-iron segment type with manual stoking, with sizes ranging from
0.15 to 0.5 MWt and with a total capacity of 2.5 MWt. The boilers are old both
in design and age (31 years of service). They are inefficient (50 percent on
average), burn about 615 tons of coal annually and contribute to the pollution
in the old city center. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the boiler house are
estimated at about 1,700 tons annually.   Peak and energy heat demands were
estimated at 1.63 MWt and 2.6 GWh, respectively. At this site, only hot water
is produced for heating purposes.
3.    Warszawska Street and Heclow Street.  The facility consists of two boiler
houses located in two geographically separated sites, both in downtown Krakow.
The larger boiler house belongs to the Polytechnic University of Krakow (PUK) and
the smaller one to the Krakow Senior Citizens Home (KSCH). Together, the two
facilities comprise 15 boiler units with a total capacity of 10 MWt. The units
have 19 years of service. Four units at PUK are of the traveling grate type (or
mechanical firing), with unit sizes ranging from 1.2 to 2.2 MWt. The remaining
11 units are of the cast-iron segment type with manual stoking and have unit
sizes ranging from 0.15 to 0.45 MWt.   About 3,625 tons of coal are burned
annually at both sites combined, with about 8,104 tons of CO2 emitted annually.
Peak and energy heat demands were estimated at 9.1 MWt and 15.7 GWh,
respectively. These sites produce both hot water and steam, the latter being
used in the cafeteria and laundry facilities.
Conversion Technologies Adopted for the Pilot Projects
4.    Energy SuDplY Side.   Qualified foreign and local consultants carried out
pre-feasibility studies on both sites.   Both the consultants and the boiler
owners concluded that the old, inefficient, highly polluting coal-fired boilers
in both boiler houses were not suitable for rehabilitation and must be replaced.
At Jana Street, conversion to modern, high-efficiency gas-fired condensing
boilers with a total capacity of 1.5 MWt is recommended. The new facility would
comprise three hot water boiler units of 0.5 MWt each. At Warszawska Street, an
optimum supply mix, consisting of a small gas-fired cogeneration unit, together



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
with steam boilers and hot water boilers, was developed. The cogeneration module
would be used for base load service during the heating season and would produce
1.3 MWe of electric power and 2.2 MWt of heat. This base load unit would be
supplemented by three gas-fired hot water-only peaking boiler units (1.5 MWt
each) and two gas-fired steam boiler units of 0.7 MWt each. The total energy
supply capacity mix of the new facility at Warszawska Street would have 1.3 MWe
for electricity generation, 6.7 MWt for heat production and 1.4 MWt for steam.
For the cogeneration module, auxiliary natural gas burners would be installed in
the associated heat recovery boilers to permit continued operation of the heating
system even if the engine or gas turbine-driven power generator must be removed
from service during the heating season or electric power demand from the
generator  is not  required.   For both cases,  a dual-firing capability was
considered to mitigate any risk of temporary shortfalls in gas supply.
5.    End-User Side.  In both cases, the analysis considered supplementary low-
cost but effective end-user energy conservation measures for modernizing the heat
transfer facilities and internal building installations before sizing the heat
supply sources.   Such measures would be part of the project scope and would
include insulation of the network distribution and building piping systems,
installation of automation and control equipment at the heat transfer
substations, installation of thermostatic control valves and heat metering, and
increased energy conservation awareness among building users and occupants.
These measures would lead to a reduction in both peak and energy demands of about
10 percent at Jana Street and 18 percent at Warszawska Street. However, other
conservation measures such as weatherization (wall insulation, window glazing and
the like) were not included, and their cost-effectiveness not assessed, as
detailed building data and analysis are required. Since these measures cannot
be ruled out in the future, a cost-effectiveness analysis was done. It showed
that the share of the cogenerated heat must be kept low and that the trade-off
is in favor of adding an extra boiler rather than oversizing the cogeneration
unit.
6.    The reason for selecting two adjacent sites (about 500 meters apart from
each other) for the second pilot project was the necessity of bringing the heat
demand to a level that could economically justify the installation of the small
cogeneration module. The planned new facility would displace the existing coal-
fired boiler houses at the two locations and would supply heat and steam to both
PUK  and  KSCH.    In  addition,  the  university  has  obvious  potential  for
replicability of the GEF project concept in a practical, technical framework and
for wide  dissemination of  innovative,  efficient  technologies  for reducing
greenhouse gases.
7.    Data on the Pilot Proiects and Emission Reduction Technology Options.
Table 6-1 of this annex shows the energy/capacity supply and demand balances
before and after including the energy conservation measures, various conversion
technology options and the selected option for each site. Tables 6-2 (for Jana
Street) and Table 6-3 (for Warszawska Street) present, for the various technology
options: (a) the energy generation and fuel required; and (b) the net abatement
of CO2, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate emissions.



Annex 6
Table 6-1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Data on Krakow Pilot Project
DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING BOILER FACILITIES
FACILITY I                            FACILITY II
Boiler Unit Size Range (kWt)                  150 - 500                            150 - 2,200
Total Capacity of Existing Boilers (kWt)          2,516                                    9,994
Number of Boiler Units                                7                                      15
Average Boiler Efficiency                           50%                                     64%
Average Age of Existing Boilers (years)              31                                      19
Coal Used (tons/year)                              613                                     3,625
C02 emission (tonslyear)                          1,693                                    8,104
ENERGY DEMANDISUPPLY BALANCE
FACILITY I                            FACILITY II
Before      After                   Before         After
Conservation Conservation   Savings  Conservation   Conservation    Savings
A. DEMAND SIDE
Hot Water
- Energy Demand (MWh)             2,556       2,300         10%       12,830          10,521       18%
- Peak Capacity Demand (kWt)      1,630       1,467         10%       7,010            5,748       18%
Steam
- Energy Demand (MWh)                                                 2,829            2,263       20%
- Peak Capacity Demand (kWt)                                           2,050           1,640       20%
Total
- Energy Demand (MWh)             2,556       2,300         1096      15,659          12,784       18
- Peak Capacity Demand (kWt)      1,630       1,467         1096      9,060            7,338       1896
B. SUPPLY SIDE
Boiler Capacity Required (kWt)                 1,500 _      _       _                  8,100 I
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS
Efficiency
New Coal-Fired Heat Only Boilers                                        78%
Gas-Fired Heat Only Boilers                                             84%
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers                                            95%
Gas-Fired Cogeneration System                                            78%
SELECTION OF CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY
A. FACILITY I
High-Efficiency Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers         3 units, 500 kWt each or 1,500 kMW total
Hot
B. FACILITY II                                           Water (kWt) Steam (kWt) Electricity (kWe)
B.1  One Gas-Fired Cogeneration Unit (Baseload)           2,200                        1,300
B.2  Gas-Fired Peaking Boilers
(3 units, 1,500 kWt each)                            4,500
B.3  Gas-Fired Steam Boilers
(2 units, 700 kWt each)                                           1,400
Sub-total - Facility I                                    6,700        1,400           1,300
Note:  Facility  is located at Jana Street and belongs to district heating enterprise of Krakow.
Facilityil is located at Warszawska Street and belongs to the Polytechnic University of Krakow.



Annex 6
Table 6-2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Emission Reduction Options
Facility One - Jana Street
GENERATION AND FUEL DEMAND
Thermal  Load    Heat    Fuel                Natural   Light
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS  Capacity  Factor Produced  Used    Coal               Gas      Oil
(kWt)  hours/yr (MWh/yr) (MWh/yr) (tons/yr) (OOOm3/yr) (tons/yr)
Existing Coal-Fired Boilers               2,516   1,016    2,556    5,112      613
New Coal-Fired Boilers                    1,500   1,533    2,300    2,949      354
New Gas-Fired Boilers                     1,500   1,533    2,300    2,738                259      24
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers              1,500   1,533    2,300    2,421                229      21
Note: All gas-fired boilers will have dual firing capability: gas:90%; light oil:10%.
NET ABATMENT OF THE CONVERSION
C02 EMISSION               S02 EMISSION
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS                  Quantity    Reduction      Quantity     Reduction
(tons/yr) (tonslyr)  (in %)  (tons/yr)  (tons/yr)  (in %)
Existing Coal-Fired Boilers                       1,693                        3.9
New Coal-Fired Boilers                              977    (716)   -42%        2.3      (1.7)  -42%
New Gas-Fired Boilers                               546   (1,147)   -68%       0.5      (3.4)  -88%
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers                        483   (1,210)   -71%       0.4      (3.5)  -89%°
NOx EMISSION          PARTICULATES EMISSION
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS                  Quantity    Reduction      Quantity     Reduction
(tons/yr) (tons/yr)  (in %)  (tons/yr)  (tons/yr)  (in %)
Existing Coal-Fired Boilers                         1.1                       12.1
New Coal-Fired Boilers                              1.0    (0.1)   -10%        7.0      (5.1)  -42%
New Gas-Fired Boilers                               0.2    (0.9)   -810k       0.0    (12.1)  -100%
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers                        0.2    (0.9)   -81%/       0.0    (12.1)  -100%



Annex 6
Table 6-3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Emission Reduction Options
Facility Two - Warszawska Street
GENERATION AND FUEL DEMAND
Operating Capacity  Load    Heat  Electricity  Fuel         Natural   Light
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS  Thermal Electric  Factor Produced Produced  Used    Coal    Gas              Oil
(kWt)  (kWe) (hours/yr) (MWh/yr) (MWh/yr) (MWh/yr) (tons/yr) 000m3/yr (tons/yr)
Existing Coal-Fired Boileis              9,994           1,567   15,659           24,467   3,625
New Coal-Fired Boilers                   8,100           1,578   12,784           16,390   2,428
New Gas-Fired Boilers                    8,100           1,578   12,784           15,219            1,438     134
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers              8,100           1,578   12,784          13,457            1,271      118
Cogeneration                                                                      23,155            2,187     203
- Combined Heat & Power unit            2,200   1,300   4,231    9,308    5,500  19,017
- Peak Heat-only-boilers (hot water)    4,000             303    1,213            1,444
- Steam Boilers                         1,200           1,886    2,263            2,694        _
Note: All gas-fired boilers will have dual firing capability: gas:90%; light oil:10%.
C02 EMISSION REDUCTION WITH COGENERATION TECHNOLOGY
SEPARATE GENERATION                          Heat  Electricity Average   Fuel      C02 Emission
VERSUS                     Produce Produced Efficiency  Used  Quantity    Reduction
COGENERATION            (MWh/yr) (MWh/yr)        (MWh/yr) (tons/yr) (tonslyr)  (in %)
A. Separate Generation in Existing Facilities
- Coal-fired Heat-only-boilers                        15,659               64%  24,467   8,104
- Coal-fired Power Plants                                       5,500      34%  16,177   5,358
Sub-total                                    15,659    5,500     52%  40,645  13,461
B. GEF Conversion Project - Cogeneration System         12,784    5,500      79%  23,155   4,618   (8,843)   -66%°_1
NET ABATMENT FOR S02, NOx AND PARTICULATES EMISSIONS FOR COGENERATION TECHNOLOGY
SEPARATE GENERATION                     S02 EMISSION              NOx EMISSION       PARTICULATES EMISSIO
VERSUS             Quantity    Reduction    Quantity    Reduction    Quantity     Reduction
COGENERATION (tonstyr) (tons/yr)  (in %)  (tons/yr) (tons/yr) (in %) (tons/yr) (tons/yr) (in %)
A. Separate Generation in Existing Facilities
- Coal-fired Heat-only-boilers - Local Benefits  46.4                      6.6                     39.9
- Coal-fired Power Plants - National Benefits   72.1                       5.8                     26.4
Sub-total                            118.5                      12.4                     66.3
B. GEF Conversion Project - Cogeneration System    4.1  (114.4)   -97°A      3.8    (8.6)  -69°A        0    (66.3) -100%°
NET ABATMENT FOR OTHER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY
C02 EMISSION             S02 EMISSION
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS                 Quantity   Reduction      Quantity    Reduction
tons/yr  tons/yr  (in %  (tonsyr) (tonslyr) (in %)
Existing Coal-Fired Boilers                      8,104                      46.4
New Coal-Fired Boilers                           5,428  (2,675)   -33%      31.1   (15.3)  -33%
New Gas-Fired Boilers                            3,035  (5,068)   -63%       2.7   (43.7)  -94°
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers                     2,684  (5,420)   -67%1    2.4   (44.0)  -95%
NOx EMISSION        PARTICULATES EMISSION
CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS                 Quantity    Reduction     Quantity    Reduction
(tonslyr) (tonslyr)  (in %)  (tons/yr) (tons/yr) (in %)
Existing Coal-Fired Boilers                        6.6                      39.9
New Coal-Fired Boilers                             5.4    (1.2)   -18°A    19.4   (20.4)  -51%
New Gas-Fired Boilers                              1.2    (5.4)   -83%       0.0   (39.9)  -100%
Gas-Fired Condensing Boilers                        1.2    (5.4)   -83%      0.0   (39.9)  -100°A



Annex 7
Page 1 of 10
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Organizational Structure and Institutional Replicability
Introduction
1.    This annex describes several components that together would establish the
national and local organizational framework which to permit not only the first
pilot projects to be accomplished but also similar conversion projects to be
replicated in the future using the structure and resources established. In the
proposed framework, the roles and responsibilities for each participating
institution,  including the communications procedure,  would be defined.   In
addition, local personnel who gained experience under the pilot projects would
be able to function as trainers and facilitators to assist in replicating the
process in other regions in Poland.
Replicable Project Organizational Structure
2.    The overall project organizational structure for the fully implemented GEF
project is presented in Figure 7-1 of this annex. This figure shows a two-level
structure for purposes of replicability: (a) a national-level GEF project
organization structure in Warsaw under a government agency, the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE), and a project
implementing agency, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS); and (b) a local-level,
project-oriented organization structure coordinated by a BOS branch.
The National Level
3.    Ministry of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and ForestrY (MoE). The role
of MoE is to coordinate and supervise, in liaison with the Bank, all project
activities,  including those of the implementing agency, BOS.   MoE would be
responsible for monitoring and reviewing project activities and products to
assure that they are accomplished with high quality and in a cost-effective and
timely manner.   On policy matters, MoE would seek a national perspective by
obtaining input from representatives of key ministries.
4.    Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) - Warsaw Office. As implementing agency, BOS
would have multiple roles and responsibilities. BOS would administer project
activities and related project funds and coordinate the activities of its central
and regional offices to accomplish these activities properly. During the project
set-up phases, BOS would be responsible for assuring that: (a) the pilot projects
are accomplished in timely manner through via proper project implementation
management, administration, procurement and disbursement activities; (b) an
experienced project engineer is selected to be a representative of the boiler
owners for the pilot projects in Krakow; (c) the collateral funding for the pilot
projects is secured; (d) standardized procedures and forms for follow-on projects
are developed and refined; (e) a marketing plan is developed and implemented; and



Annex 7
Page 2 of 10
(f) technical assistance in selected areas of project preparation, implementation
and monitoring are organized for national and regional BOS staffs as well as for
other key institutions and individuals within the GEF project organizational
structure.
5.    While as implementing agency BOS would have overall responsibility for
assuring that the above tasks are accomplished, it would receive assistance from
foreign and Polish consultants to supplement its in-house staff to accomplish
these tasks in the most effective manner. The Polish consultants may be hired
at the national and local levels as appropriate.   BOS might delegate to such
consultants the accomplishment of specific project functions or tasks but is
itself responsible for the successful completion of the work.
6.    BOS has already designated a project director to head its national and
local GEF coordination offices. Assisted with adequate staff, the director would
have the responsibility and authority to accomplish properly BOS project-related
tasks, to administer its project responsibilities and to serve as the designated
liaison with other participating institutions in the project organization. As
individual projects develop, national and local offices would be adequately
staffed and equipped with modern telecommunications facilities and computers.
7.    Throughout the duration of the project, once project set-up is completed,
BOS would:  (a)  administer  all project  activities,  including preparation,
appraisal, implementation, monitoring and reporting of project performance
results; (b) coordinate procurement activities and supervise bidding procedures
in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Works and Services;
(c) supervise contracts of all project participants, including local and foreign
experts, technical advisors, consultants, contractors and suppliers; (d)
coordinate the disbursement of GEF funds and channel them to prospective
beneficiaries through monitorable accounts designated for this purpose only; (e)
assure the planned marketing activities are accomplished and provide for wider
dissemination of the GEF project concept using its network of branches; (f)
process and evaluate applications, looking at the cost-effectiveness of candidate
projects; (g) coordinate with state and local authorities on policy matters; (h)
negotiate funding packages for each individual coal-to-gas conversion projects
selected; and (i) administer the energy efficiency component of this project with
the assistance  of qualified building energy auditors.   BOS would not be
responsible for negotiating the funding packages for individual project
applicants under the energy efficiency component.
8.    Systems and procedures would be set up to ensure effective monitoring of
the project implementation by MoE and the Bank. BOS would furnish to MoE and the
Bank semiannual progress reports on the status of the project, supplemented by
a project completion report to be submitted within six months after the project
closing date.   BOS would also furnish a project completion report for each
individual project eighteen months after the acceptance of the individual project
by the owner. BOS may utilize consultants to assist it in the preparation of
these reports.
9.    To cover its cost for administering the GEF project, BOS would receive a



Annex 7
Page 3 of 10
management fee equivalent to 2.5 percent of the GEF grant contribution for the
investment component of the project.   The management fee would consist of
start-up costs for the first year of the project plus a performance-based
management fee. The latter would be a function of BOS' ability to perform the
list of activities necessary to implement this project successfully, would be
calculated as 2.3 percent of the committed GEF grants for individual investment
projects and would be disbursed in accordance with individual project milestones
(see Annex 17).
10.   Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). STAP's major roles are to review
project applicants for GEF funding and to ensure that all GEF projects are
designed and accomplished in a technically sound manner.   In this role, STAP
would function as the technical advisor and partner to BOS in accomplishing
project activities. STAP would consist of five scientists (two international --a
gas cogeneration specialist and an energy economist -- and three from Poland,
including an energy audit/end-user energy efficiency specialist, a district heat
specialist and an instrumentation and monitoring specialist). These advisors
should be independent, without affiliation to the institutions involved (or that
could be involved) in the decision-making of follow-up GEF projects yet to be
identified.   The Bank would review the qualifications and experience of the
members of this panel. During the project preparation phase, the panel would
assist BOS in reviewing the second tranche of pilot projects and in refining,
inter alia, the detailed rules and procedures for the early steps in the project
development cycle.
11.   MoE would designate a STAP chairman and secretary.  The chairman would be
responsible for the coordination of STAP activities and liaison with MoE, BOS and
the local technical advisors or local Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs) (see para.
34 below). The secretary would be responsible for documenting STAP actions and
decisions.  The STAP chairman may also delegate the liaison functions to the STAP
secretary as appropriate.
12.    STAP would meet routinely, two to three times a year or as required, to
provide an independent technical review of all candidate projects to ensure the
project designs comply with the GEF scientific and technical requirements (see
Annex 4), and, in conjunction with BOS, to assess the cost-effectiveness of these
candidates. STAP would determine if the design of each identified project met
the stated GEF requirements and would inform BOS (and MoE) of its decisions.
STAP may meet at other times as required to accomplish its assigned
responsibilities properly. A quorum for STAP meetings would be three or more
members, with at least one international STAP member present. All STAP decisions
to approve projects to receive GEF grant assistance shall be by unanimous vote.
STAP's decision on project approval would be final.
13.   No formal meeting of STAP members would be required for STAP's review and
approval of project applicants under the energy efficiency component.   These
projects would be approved on a 'no-objection' basis obtained from three STAP
members consisting of one Polish expert, one foreign expert and the STAP
chairman.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 10
14.   For projects at the appraisal stage, the STAP would: (a) develop terms of
reference (TORs) for the services of the TAG members or technical advisors to
assist BOS in the appraisal of individual coal-to-gas candidate projects for GEF
funding; (b) review the selection process and approve GEF funds for TAG services;
(c) review TAG members' products; and (d) approve GEF funding for project
implementation.   For projects at the implementation stage,  STAP would:  (a)
develop TORs for the services of the project engineers acting as the boiler
owners' representatives; (b) review the selection process and approve GEF funds
for the boiler owners' representatives; and (c) designate a STAP member to
oversee project implementation from the conceptual phase to full operation,
including monitoring of project performance. Depending on the size of a project,
STAP may delegate the responsibility for oversight of project implementation to
a member of the local TAG (see para. 34). Depending on the geographical location
of individual conversion projects and their size, STAP could develop TORs to
cover consulting services for a group of individual projects.
15.   STAP may also assist BOS in defining the technical requirements for other
project activities. Besides its technical review activity and upon request, STAP
would provide technical assistance to the local experts and TAG members. The
local experts would assist the boiler owners in the preparation activities
necessary to apply for GEF funding under the project; and the TAG members would
assist BOS in project appraisal activities. In addition, STAP would set up a
national network for the dissemination and exchange of information among all
local technical advisors, building on existing information channels.
16.   STAP would implement other  information programs such as newsletters,
seminars, and presentations at meetings of technical societies to ensure
widespread dissemination of STAP activities to the relevant Polish technical
communities, so as to facilitate project replicability throughout Poland.
Members of the technical community might include representatives from
universities, professional architecture and engineering societies, codes and
standards organizations, related institutions, foundations and affected
industries (for example, boiler suppliers, monitoring equipment suppliers and
insulation manufacturers).
17.   Expenses related to travel, subsistence and honoraria for both Polish and
external STAP members would be supported from GEF project resources to ensure an
independent technical perspective.
18.   State Inspectorate for Environmental Protection (SIEP). SIEP is a state agency whose
regulatory functions aim at, inter alia, enforcing air quality standards to
control air pollution.   SIEP is responsible for:  (a) the organization and
coordination of the state environmental monitoring systems; (b) the supervision
of the compliance with the environmental requirements established by legal and
administrative decisions; (c) the enforcement of fees for the use of the
environment; (d) the enforcement of fines for non-compliance with environmental
requirements; and (e) the issuance of decisions for stopping activities causing
damages to the environment.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 10
19.   To accomplish  its responsibilities,  SIEP has  a network of regional
agencies, the Voivodship Inspectorates. The Air Quality Management Component of
the Poland - Environment Management Project (Loan 3190-POL) provides, inter alia,
a technical assistance, training and monitoring equipment to the Voivodship
Inspectorates. This assistance aims at: (a) improving the local technical and
analytical capabilities to monitor and manage the ambient air quality on a
regional scale and in real time, including facility-specific analyses of cost-
effective means to reduce air pollution through management and investment; and
(b) developing the technical infrastructure to perform consistent and reliable
emission inventories, testing and engineering evaluations for air pollution
sources in the region.   In the Poland - Country Strategy and Implementation
Review of October 30, 1992, the Bank recommended that the environmental related
services of the Voivodship Inspectorates be decentralized and allowed to operate
on a semi-commercial basis as means to increase their efficiency in activities
for the benefit of the environment at the request of state and local authorities,
institutions, organizations and other public and private enterprises.
20.   With respect to the GEF project, SIEP's major role would be to assist MoE
in: (a) ensuring that the environmental monitoring program under the project is
implemented in accordance with established international monitoring and project
evaluation procedures, protocols and requirements; and (b) evaluating the results
of the environmental monitoring for individual coal-to-gas conversion projects
(see Annex 11). In this role, SIEP would function as a technical advisor to MoE
in supervising all environmental monitoring activities under the project.
21.   Sources of Collateral Funding.  While the above-described institutions have
mainly a technical/administrative role, the sources of collateral funding have
specific financial roles and responsibilities. For each GEF individual project,
a number of sources of collateral funding exist: (a) the several sources of
environmental funds with a national perspective, which will make funds available
at preferential rates; (b) commercial banks, including BOS, at commercial rates;
and (c) owner equity contributions.
22.   Each of the sources of environmental funds with a national perspective and
preferential rates has its own set of conditions for financing.   A brief
description of these sources, including the main terms and conditions for their
loans, follows:
23.   National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management  (the
National Fund). Established in 1989 by MoE, the National Fund operates under:
(i) the acts on environmental protection and formation, the water law and the
geological law; (ii) the decree on mining law; and (iii) its own statute,
conferred by MoE on June 30, 1989. Its objective is to provide financial support
to all activities related to the protection of air and earth surface, water
management, environmental monitoring and ecological education.   The National
Fund's income derives from: (i) environmental fees and fines; (ii) licensing fees
for the exploration of natural resources; (iii) its own equity capital; (iv)
interests on loans granted for ecological purposes; and (v) voluntary remittances
from industrial works. The current funding level is about US$400 million per



Annex 7
Page 6 of 10
year. The funds acquired are generally partitioned as follows: 40 percent goes
to the national level and 60 percent remains at the voivodship level (with about
10 percent allocated to communes and municipalities). There are exceptions to
this partitioning.   For charges for both nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions and
saline water from coal mining, 100 percent of the funds go to the national level.
The allocation process results in great disparities in the funds available for
environmental projects across the voivodships, but in general the voivodships
that get the most  funds  also have  the  greatest  needs.    Previously,  the
volvodships could use their environmental money only to subsidize projects.
Recently, a new amendment permits the voivodship funds to act as legal entities
that can give credits,  buy shares,  etc.   The National Fund sees a large
requirement for training at the voivodship level.
24.   Currently,  about  48  percent  and  32  percent  of  the  National  Fund
expenditures are for water management and air protection, respectively. Most of
the funds are allocated on the basis of loans made at preferential rates, with
the remaining funds (focusing mainly on ecological education, monitoring and the
protection of nature protection) on a grant basis. The preferential rates for
interest-bearing loans are determined as 0.2-1.0 times the National Bank of
Poland refinancing rate (35 percent as of April 1994). The multiplying factor
depends on both the borrower and the project scope but is generally as follows:
(i) 0.2-0.4 for municipal development projects, carried out by state and local
authorities; (ii) 0.4-0.6 for loans aimed at the manufacturing of machines and
equipment for ecological purposes; and (iii) 0.6-1.0 for the remaining
environmental projects. The amount of project financing can be up to 50 percent
of the project costs  for projects with high environmental priority.   The
repayment period is generally up to four years, including a maximum of one and
a half year grace period. The terms and conditions of each loan are determined
and negotiated case-by-case by the Board of Management of the National Fund.
25.   Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS):  BOS SA was established in early 1991 by
the National Fund, which is the major equity shareholder with 44.4 percent of BOS
shares. BOS operational objective is similar to that of the National Fund. BOS
can extend loans at commercial as well as preferential rates. As of April 1994,
the terms and conditions for commercial loans were as follows: (i) for short-term
loans (up to three months) the interest rate ranged from 37 percent to 40
percent, depending of the project's priority and the borrower's credit-
worthiness; (ii) up to one year, the interest rate was 40 percent; and (iii)
above one year (maximum three to four years for environmental projects), the
interest rate was 50 percent.   BOS can also extend preferential loans for
environmental projects on roughly the same basis as the National Fund, but with
the following differences:   (i) the maximum amount of financing per loan is
US$1.7 million, equivalent to 10 percent of BOS equity capital, and with a
ceiling of 15 percent of BOS equity capital per borrower; and (ii) the borrower
must provide an equity contribution ranging from 15 percent to 30 percent of
project funds. The difference between commercial rate loans and preferential
rate loans is covered by subsidies from the National Fund, which sets up the
lending conditions and, jointly with BOS, decides on the terms and conditions for
individual projects applicant for preferential loans.



Annex 7
Page 7 of 10
26.   The Polish Debt-for-Environment Swap (EcoFund):  EcoFund was established
in 1992 by the Ministry of Finance as an independent foundation to manage funds
from the debt-for-environment swap.  It emphasizes projects with combined Polish
and international impact.  EcoFund's priority areas overlap with those of the GEF
and comprise: (i) reduction of the long range transboundary air pollution; (ii)
reduction of the pollution in the Baltic Sea; (iii) lowering of emissions of
greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane) and phasing out of ozone-
depleting substances; and (iv) protection of Poland's biological diversity.
Similarly, the criteria for project eligibility for EcoFund financing overlap
with those of the GEF. Financing from EcoFund is made on a grant basis, with an
upper limit of 30 percent of project investment costs. EcoFund co-finances with
the National Fund, BOS, commercial banks, etc. Given the similarity between the
funds from the GEF and EcoFund relative to project eligibility and financing
terms, funds from the EcoFund would be used either to cofinance the grant portion
of the GEF individual projects or to extend GEF-type assistance to other
individual projects, so that the GEF coal-to-gas conversion concept can be
disseminated more widely.   This would ensure that the two sources of grant
financing are complementary.
The Local Level
27.  Local Involvement for Sustainability and Replicability. Two major GEF objectives are
the sustainability and replicability of its projects.  An important means of
ensuring these objectives are met under this boiler conversion project is to
delegate as much of the decision-making as possible to the regional and local
levels. This delegation can include project identification, economic / financial
/ technical appraisal, project implementation and administration, monitoring and
evaluation. Typically, key decisions about small to medium-size boilers are not
made primarily at a national level but rather at the local or regional level.
Thus, local and regional financial and technical capabilities must be developed
to permit a sustainable future stream of coal-to-gas boiler conversion projects.
The transfer of local and regional capabilities to other locales is viewed as an
excellent means of promoting replicability.
28.   Need for flexibility. The organizational structure proposed here stresses local
decision-making, with subsequent review at the national level. A risk of this
approach is the creation of excessive and expensive bureaucratic overhead. To
avoid this, informal local structures could be used initially, and formal local
structures created in a region only when a clear need exists.
29.   Local BOS Office. This office would be in charge of administering project-
related activities for individual projects within a specified region and ensuring
that BOS roles and responsibilities are fulfilled at the regional level. This
responsibility includes establishing: (a) proper management and communication
procedures between the GEF unit at the local BOS office and the GEF unit at the
Warsaw BOS office on matters related to project implementation, procurement and
disbursement; and (b) project monitoring criteria and procedures, as well as
contracting and payment mechanisms.



Annex 7
Page 8 of 10
30.   The national BOS office may wish to establish minimum criteria to be met
before a BOS local project office would be established.  This criteria might
include, for example, a minimum number of existing or anticipated applications
from the region and/or a minimum number of awarded GEF grants for projects in the
region.
31.   During the initial phase of the project, the pilot projects in Krakow would
serve as a model for building up the local GEF project and financial management
capability within the local branch office of BOS. It is anticipated that BOS
regional office in Krakow would administer all GEF projects in the Krakow region.
This regional office would be responsible for:
(a)   Actively encouraging other boiler owners in the region to undertake
coal-to-gas conversion projects by marketing the GEF coal-to-gas
conversion concept, providing technical assistance to interested
owners of boilers and heating systems, and providing boiler owners
of potential candidate projects with a standardized and simplified
data and information form to be submitted with each request for GEF
supplemental funding assistance; and
(b)   Evaluating and recommending  the most  effective  candidates  for
participation in the GEF nationwide funding program to follow the
two pilot projects in Krakow.
32.   Local Policy Advisory Panel. For key regions, it is anticipated that Local
Policy Advisory Panels (LPAPs) would be formed to assure proper policy input from
the local level into the GEF coal-to-gas conversion program and to facilitate
accommodation of program activities with local priorities. A LPAP panel would
consist of representatives of public bodies such as the voivodships, the
municipalities, the newly created environmental fund organizations within the
voivodships, and other public entities (for example, representatives of
electricity,  gas and district heating distribution companies).    The main
functions of the LPAP panels would be to:
(a)   Provide  local policy oversight  for GEF coal-to-gas  conversion
projects in the region in order to represent the public interest,
consistent with regional and municipal energy and urban planning and
local environmental priorities; and
(b)   Provide local liaison and communication with the relevant national
governmental organizations.
33.  Voivodship Inspectorate for Enviromnental Protection (VIEP). Each VIEP would liaise
with SIEP on matters related to the supervision of the monitoring activities of
all GEF projects implemented within the voivodship boundary.
34.  Local Technical Advisors and Technical Advisony Group (TAG). Providing independent
local technical review, evaluation and advice is an important function.  Key
technical advisory functions include:



Annex 7
Page 9 of 10
(a)   Assistance to the local BOSs in technical evaluation, including site
inspection, of applications for GEF grants to permit pre-
qualification (see step 4 in Figure 9-1 in Annex 9);
(b)   Provision of independent technical input, oversight,  review and
advice to all project activities and decisions in the region;
(c)   Provision of ongoing technical assistance and training to encourage
and facilitate replication of project activities to other projects
and regions;
(d)   Technical  liaison with  the  national  STAP  as well  as  related
technical advisors and groups in other regions of the country; and
(e)   Assistance in identifying and facilitating local production and
distribution capabilities for high-efficiency boilers, small
cogeneration systems and energy conservation technologies.
35.   The identification and use of local technical advisors are high project
priorities in achieving the sustainability and replicability objectives. Local
experts should be identified and utilized as needed on a consulting basis. The
national BOS office and national STAP may wish to establish minimum criteria to
be met before a formal local TAG is established. The national STAP would approve
the selection of the members of the formal local TAG and of a list of local
advisory experts (if a formal TAG is not yet established). The national STAP
would develop standard TORs and recruitment procedures for the work to be done
by the local TAG or local advisory experts.
36.   In addition to its core functions, a TAG may accomplish other activities,
depending upon the type of GEF projects identified and the specific needs of
those projects.   Supplemental TAG functions might include:  (a) identifying,
commissioning, carrying out and monitoring special studies (such as progress
reports and completion reports) and analyses related to specific GEF projects;
and (b) for GEF projects including housing, examining the possibilities for
upgrading current energy conservation codes and standards to economically optimal
levels from the regional and national perspectives.
37.   Since most GEF projects would include heat supply to buildings,  local
technical expertise in end-use energy-efficiency technologies should include
applications with respect to energy-efficiency design, construction and retrofit
of buildings.   For GEF projects including housing, expertise might be sought
related to energy codes and standards for buildings.   Local experts might be
sought from the following local groups:   housing cooperatives; banks; other
potential private investor groups; contractors and developers; architects;
engineers; university professors in related technical areas; electric, gas and
district heating entities; construction-related financial entities; equipment and
material suppliers; codes and standards development and implementation groups.
The TAG expertise should permit adequate and balanced involvement of the relevant
technical perspectives. Local experts used for advice about project selection
or decisions should not be affiliated with the organizations participating in



Annex 7
Page 10 of 10
proposing, designing or building specific GEF projects.
38.   The local technical advisors/TAG members would participate on a funded
basis. Within GEF project funding constraints, the funding of local technical
advisors and TAG members should be accomplished to ensure that the needed
expertise is available to guide local and regional decision-making. Recruitment
and payment would be carried out at the local BOS level.
39.   OtherParticipantsinSpeciflcGEFProjects. For each specific project, the boiler
owner, engineering consultants acting as the representatives of the boiler
owners,    engineering-procurement-construction   contractors,    environmental
monitoring contractor, energy auditors and suppliers would participate in
standard roles to accomplish designated activities (the roles of these groups are
further identified in Annexes 8. 10, 11 and 20-24). For the overall GEF Project,
other key project participants include contractors for the environmental
monitoring and for the marketing program and external financial auditors.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
GEF Project Organization Structure
Wo/ld                Washington. D.C.
Bank
_... ............Environmenta.foeto
Ministryof Warsaw                                                 National         Local
(   Environroental                        e
;   Protection                            G
Technical                                                              Collateral Fiinanc ang                              LocaE
Advisory                                                         (        Environmental Funds
9   Panel  S  .                       s t                      * dOwner Equity Contribution
Cffoa meralal  naldfpojan la
\   t   \          )             .                                  T    Lo~~~~~~~~~~~cal Policy 
\ /f*_ ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Advisory Panel)
J                              \   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Volvodtship &Clty Olicet) 
\          . -                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~ BOS 
\      -                                 {         ~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~Local   *payment  _ Contractors/
\ - V j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suppliers
\  """""                           > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< p ro l~~~~poet                           j
,.                                 /                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dentflcaton
,.   \  Zbon                      _/                              \   c~~~~~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pprlscl  bidding,
\                     s                                  \    te~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~upkvllon   otc
--          \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local Technical Advisory                     mnHning
\ ~~~~~Group  l . 
GEf Technical Asskstance                                  \wchftch", ongln@@R combat:ore,                                               (3EF ProJect                   c
developes banks, cod_attwd                                 Owncr Reprvetsi a               tD 
Inelitutes, untvloty, urbon plannlng                        Owr (Boilr owners,              _l1
odfko, ote, m neee for proects                           Housing COpwus, etc.)         



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Rules and Procedures for Processing Applications
The following rules and procedures have been identified for the
application, selection and accomplishment of individual conversion projects.
Rules and procedures for processing energy efficiency projects are briefly
described in Annex 10. Figure 8.1 of this annex describes the typical overall
flow of activities for a single project. The sequence shown in the figure and
the descriptions below should together provide a detailed first draft set of
rules and procedures. This draft will be refined during the pilot projects to
produce a final set of rules and procedures that would be fully adapted to a
range of in-country conditions and would be widely replicable with future
projects. The proposed steps are as follows.
At the local level:
Step 1.      Boiler Owner Decides to Participate:   Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA
(BOS) announces publicly the GEF fund and its purpose using various
information channels and makes application forms and other
information on the GEF fund available to interested boiler owners,
specifying a due date.
The boiler owner reviews the information provided, determines the
project would meet the GEF criteria and decides to apply to take
part.
Step 2.      Boiler Owner Submits Application to BOS:  The boiler owner completes
at his/her own expense a standardized GEF application developed by
BOS. This application would include: (a) a pre-feasibility study,
prepared with the assistance of a qualified consultant if needed;
(b) an environmental impact assessment (EIA), prepared with the
assistance of a registered expert; (c) a letter of intent from the
local gas distribution company to supply the gas;  and (d) in the
case of a cogeneration project, a letter of intent from the local
electricity distribution company to purchase the cogenerated
electricity. To carry out this task, the boiler owner may use local
experts from a recommended list of experts established by BOS.
Draft terms of reference (TORs) for the local experts are in
Annex 24.
Step 3.     Financial Pre-Oualification by BOS:  The local BOS office evaluates
the application for pre-qualification based on GEF criteria,
including financial factors, together with other applications
delivered to the BOS office within a given date. If the application
does not meet the criteria, it is returned to the owner with a



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
letter of explanation.
Step 4.     Technical Pre-Oualification by TAG:  The applications that meet the
GEF criteria from the previous step are sent to the local Technical
Advisory Group (TAG) for a site inspection and assessment of
compliance with the GEF technical requirements.   If additional
information or clarification is needed, the local TAG would request
this  of  the  owner  via  the  local  BOS  office.    All  formal
communications between the GEF project and the boiler owner would be
through the local and central BOS offices.
If the project does not comply with the technical requirements, BOS
would return the application to the owner with a letter of
explanation based on the findings of local TAG.
If a local TAG has not been established, the application would be
forwarded for technical review either to a TAG in the region or to
a technical advisor drawn from an approved list of registered local
experts or even to the national Scientific and Technical Advisory
Panel (STAP), as appropriate. Review by the national STAP should
only be required for all complex projects involving, for example,'
cogeneration schemes. However, the local TAG members and technical
advisors may liaise with STAP on technical matters, as necessary.
The services of the local technical advisors or local TAG members
would be funded under the GEF technical assistance component. TORs
for the local technical advisors and TAG members are in Annex 24.
SteR 5.     Public Review:  All applications that meet the above requirements
are sent to the respective local municipalities (Gminas).   That
initiates a public review of the concerned project and its EIA. The
environmental review should address all environmental impacts of the
project applicant, in accordance with the provisions described in
Annex 9. The results of the public review are sent to the local BOS
office as well as the Voivodship.
SteR 6.     CooReration with the Voivodship:  The local BOS office evaluates the
pre-qualified applications in terms of financial requirements and
cooperates with the Voivodship regarding both the financing and
environmental issues of the projects. The project's status relative
to  Voivodship  priorities  is  an  important  consideration.    In
addition, under current procedures, the Voivodship has final
regulatory responsibility for ensuring compliance with the
environmental criteria of the project.
SteR 7.     Local BOS Final ApDroval/Disapproval:  The local BOS office makes
its  final   approval/disapproval   decision  for  each  of  the
applications.   Each disapproved application is sent back to the
owner with a letter of explanation, while the locally approved



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
projects are forwarded to the central BOS office.
At the Central Level:
Step 8.     Central BOS Office Review of Criteria:   The central BOS office
conducts a check on the eligibility of candidate projects based on
the GEF criteria. It does this routinely on a quarterly basis or as
required to address a reasonable number of projects. The review can
be considered simply a check of the actions of the local BOS
offices. The timing of the review should be scheduled prior to the
corresponding STAP meeting.
Step 9.     STAP Technical Review:   The national STAP checks  the eligible
applications  for  their  local  assessments.    Its  review  covers
technical aspects and cost-effectiveness of the project, and the CEF
grant contribution to the project financing. In some cases, STAP
may have already conducted a technical review (per step 4 above).
STAP gives its evaluation to the central BOS office, with a copy to
the Ministry for Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry (MoE). STAP's decision is final. STAP also expresses its
opinion on the quality of the work done at the local level by the
local BOS and TAG and provides recommendations and corrective
actions, if necessary.
Step 10.    BOS Negotiates/Assembles Financing Package:  After STAP approves the
applications, the central BOS office begins to negotiate a financing
package for each application. The institutions involved would be
the boiler owner, the National Fund, the Voivodship, BOS itself and
possibly also commercial banks. In some cases, the Polish Debt-to-
Envirorunent Swap fund (EcoFund) may wish to finance some of the
grant part, in which case the GEF contribution may be reduced.
Step 11.    Approve Financing Packages and Sign Contracts:   BOS approves the
financing packages for the individual projects, as does the boiler
owner, and they sign a sub-grant agreement. The sub-grant agreement
specifies, inter alia, the amount of the GEF grant financing and
provides for a review of this amount once the procurement packages
for the goods and works are awarded and the project costs firmed up.
Step 12.    Terms  of  Reference  for  Engineering  Consultants:    STAP:  (a)
formulates TORs for one or more consultants to design the detailed
technical requirements for the individual schemes and to act as the
representative of the boiler owner; (b) approves funding of the
consultants from the GEF project; (c) reviews the consultants'
products; and (d) designates a STAP member to oversee project
implementation. For some projects, STAP may decide to delegate this
function  to the  local  TAG.    Depending upon  the  size  of  the
individual projects and their geographical distribution, STAP would



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
decide upon the number of qualified engineering consultants to be
hired and funded from the GEF project fund and upon the number of
boiler owners to be represented by each individual engineering
consultant.
SteR 13.    BOS Hires Engineering Consultants as Boiler Owners' Representatives:
The central BOS office hires a consultant or consultants, following
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, to develop the
necessary technical and operational specifications for the project
and to assist the boiler owners during all phases of project
implementation.   The Bank's prior approval would be required for
consulting services beyond the Bank's prior review threshold (see
Annex 16).
The consultant would also prepare for the monitoring at this time,
including: (a) monitoring and measuring the existing facility to
produce base case conditions; (b) developing a detailed monitoring
plan, including identification of the monitoring system and
equipment needed; and (c) advising the environmental monitoring
contractor on the monitoring requirements for the project.   The
environmental monitoring contractor would conduct the pre-conversion
monitoring of the environmental and technical performance of the
existing facility during boiler operation (see Annex 11).
STAP would designate a member to follow up and review the work done.
For some projects, STAP may decide to delegate this function to the
local TAG or to local experts if a formal local TAG has not been
established.
Step 14.    BOS Administers Bidding to Assist the Enaineering Consultant:  The
central BOS office assists the consultant(s) in the administrative
part of the bidding for the goods and works to ensure compliance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. An Engineering, Procurement
and Construction (EPC) contractor is selected.
The Bank would conduct a prior review of: (i) all procurement
packages involving cogeneration projects and with funding levels in
excess of US$300,000; (ii) the first three high-efficiency boiler
packages; and (iii) the procurements of equipment following direct
contracting procedures (see Annex 16 on the Bank's prior review
requirement).
Prior to issuing the bidding documents for the goods and works, the
boiler owners sign contracts with the local gas distribution company
for long-term delivery of gas and with the local electricity
distribution  company  for  the  purchase  of  electricity  from
cogeneration project.
The central BOS office would revise the financial analysis on the



Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
basis of the selected EPC bid to determine the final GEF grant
amount.   It would then finalize the financing plan and amend the
sub-grant agreement to reflect the revised financing plan and GEF
grant amount.
During project construction and operation:
Step 15.    Construction and Installation: The engineering consultant acting as
the boiler owner's representative supervises construction and
installation.
Step 16.    Commissioning and Acceptance:  The local authorities (Voivodships
and gminas) designate a committee consisting of the boiler owner,
the engineering consultant, SIEP and other local/regional
institutions responsible for energy, environment and infrastructure
projects. The committee approves the installation and the project
is formally turned over to the boiler owner. Both the engineering
consultant who supervised construction and installation would
participate in this approval process, including an evaluation of the
installation  operation.    SIEP would  also  participate  in  this
approval process, including an evaluation of the installation
operation. The owner and the engineering consultant initiates the
specially designed scheme  for post-conversion monitoring.   The
engineering consultant reports to the central BOS office.
As the construction and installation of equipment are completed,
each equipment would be inspected and tested to the extent the
general state of construction permits. Each test would be performed
in the presence of the boiler owner's representative as a part of
the commissioning and acceptance process.
To the extent feasible the boiler owner's operating staff would
operate the equipment and conduct the inspection and testing. The
boiler owner's representative would prepare a report of this initial
inspection   and   preliminary   testing   activity,   noting   any
deficiencies.    The  EPC  contractor  would  then  correct  these
deficiencies.
When construction is completed, the entire system would be started
up and operated at specific capacities and conditions over the
period of time as designated by the boiler owner's representative or
as contractually required. Since any district heating project has
to be completed before the onset of the heating season,  either
special arrangements have to be made for full load testing when the
true heating load is low, or full load testing may be delayed until
colder weather.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Step 17.    Project Reports:   The local BOS prepares progress reports and
completion reports for individual projects and sends them to the
central BOS office.   If a local BOS office has not yet been
established relative to a project, then the central BOS office
prepares the progress reports and completion reports for that
project. The central BOS office prepares summary progress reports
covering all individual projects. It should send copies of summary
progress reports and individual project completion reports to MoE,
the Bank, STAP, TAGs, the Voivodship, the Gmina, and the boiler
owner.
Step 18.    Monitoring:  The environmental monitoring contractor would conduct
the post-conversion monitoring of the environmental and technical
performance of the new facility, during the first year of operation.
Step 19.    Verification:   A small group consisting of some experts having
participated in this process would, under the technical leadership
of STAP, take part in the verification of systems operation, cost-
efficiency and monitoring of emissions on a yearly basis. Reports
on the results of the verification would be distributed to MoE, the
Bank, BOS, STAP, TAG, the Voivodship, the Gmina and the boiler
owner.



Annex 8
Figure 8-1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Processing of Candidate Projects - Flow Diagram
1. Boiler Owner Reviews GEF
Criteria and Decides to Participate
Possible assistance by                             2. Boiler Owner submits standard                                   Assistance
qualified consultant bo prepare                         application form to local BOS,                              by qualified consultant
pre-feasibility study including                       including pre-feasibility study and                              in preparing
load reduction measures                             Environmental Impact Assessment                                       EIA
4. Local experts (TAG)          _                                      i
technical pre-qualification                              3. Local BOS conducts
including site inspection           OK                 financial pre-qualification.
PGojea ndoligible por              Not                   Approval/Disapproval
GEF lunding support.                       ~~~Yes  
Panel STwAP) ceslaYirm. entrir al5. Public reviee  of EIAi
chn|a asses.  Local BOS initiates cprtria.                            Coordinab  ith Gmina
|   wvith Voivodship on financial and     |
enIromna isue                                                   a Voivodship assesses
project pnionty
Not confirmed                  ~~No
Project-not eligible tor       _    o     |7. Local BOS office finall
|           GF hnding. support                                      ApprovalDisapproval
9 Sientific                                           1 Tech. Advisory  o     n
Panel (STAP) checks local         Confi                     ntral      c revievIs
technical assessments.                               I1ibility acording to GEF cateria.
Not ronfirmed                             No 
L                      O)Proje  not digible for
GF luneaing support                                    a  a
Yes                                                     o
10. Central BOS ofuice negotiates                                      f
and assembles a financial         |_L      >           Financial institutions decide
package for the project.                      Lon parnbapation.
|   12. STAP develops Terms oJf      D                                       it
Reference (TORs) for                   _|            11. BOS and owner approJve,
engineering consultant(s).                C              and a contract is signed.
Boiler owner agrees to monitora
|  Standard bidding procedures for    |                                        ltmeasure existing facility to produce
|   Boiler Ovvner Representative                            1 -     3 Central BO5 office selecal                        base case conditions
|  Individual from STAP conducts               *and operational specifications                          |Develop detailed monitDring
follow-up review           |for project(s).                                                                plan and equipment to include
Y+                                      in technical requirements.
14 Central BOS office administers                                     ri|Wrd  akpor appnroal of  
Standard bidding procedures                *         bidding process tD assist consultant                                   nt roedre
for Engineering, Procur, 6 Construction                   A contractortsupplier is selected for
Contractor                                    one project or package ozf projects.   *Financing plan for each project
is revised, based on project costs
T                          ~~~~~~~~~~resurdng from final bid evaluabon
Supervsed by qualified expert              Po           15. Construchon 6 installation
17. Project Completion report to                                                                         |      Tumover tD Owner's Management 
|Monitonng IL verification reports to BOS,   | 
MoENRF STP_A,Viosi     B                                                                                                   eiiainEa.            u



Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
Overview
1.    Introduction.   The proposed project has been placed in environmental
screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive
4.01, "Environmental Assessment." The project was subject to the preparation of
an environmental review for the demonstration activities (see "Proposed
Demonstration Projects" below), and environmental guidelines have been developed
for use in the GEF-Project Replicability Framework to be established under the
project (see "GEF-Project Replicability Framework - Environmental Guidelines"
below).
2.    Background.  Given the level and complexity of the environmental issues in
the country, the Government of Poland, working through the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE) at the national
level and a network of environmental protection departments at the local level,
has undertaken an impressive program to address environmental issues through a
diversity of policy actions, investment activities and programs to strengthen
institutions.    Since  1990,  the  ministry,  with  the  cooperation  of  local
governments in Katowice, Krakow and Legnica, has been implementing the Bank-
funded Environmental Management Project (Loan 3190-POL), which has supported
institutional development, including development of an improved capacity for air
quality management. To support the development of a national policy concerning
the substitution of gas for coal, the Bank cooperated with the Government in the
preparation of an "Environmental Assessment of the Gas Development Plan for
Poland" (1991). Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte prepared this report with the support
of a wide variety of Polish experts. It analyzes the environmental issues and
benefits associated with the production, import and use of gas.
3.    Following cooperative preparation between the Bank and MoE, the Bank issued
a major report, "Poland: Environmental Strategy" in 1992, that gave priority to
the reduction of air pollution in major urban industrial areas for public health
reasons.   More recently,  the recommendations  included in the Bank report
"Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe," endorsed by the
European Ministers of Environment in 1993, places great emphasis on the
substitution of gas for coal and the use of higher efficiency boilers as an
important means of reducing the serious health effects from particulate emissions
on a local scale and the impacts of SO2 on a regional scale and CO2 on a global
level. This report specifies as high priorities for investment actions to reduce
air pollution in southern Poland and the adjoining areas of the Czech Republic.
4.    Potential Environmental Impacts.  Implementation of the proposed project
would result in the accelerated implementation of the Government of Poland's



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
policy of converting small and medium-size coal-fired boilers to gas-firing to
reduce the serious air pollution problems in major urban-industrial areas, with
resulting local benefits in air quality and environmental health. On a regional
scale,  such interventions would incrementally support the reduction of SO2
emissions and contribute to a reduction of CO2 emissions at a global level. The
use of high-efficiency boiler technology would also reduce the total level of
energy used and lower the rate of exploitation of domestic gas reserves and the
level of natural gas imports.
5.    The primary potentially adverse environmental impacts associated with the
proposed project are: (a) waste management issues associated with the handling
and disposal of asbestos wastes during the removal of old boilers; and (b) the
risk of explosion associated with the piped delivery and use of gas in the
boilers. Both these issues are well-recognized in Poland, and proper procedures
would be used in the proposed project for the safe handling and disposal of
asbestos and for assuring the safe installation and operation of the gas supply
systems and gas-fired boilers.
6.    Institutional Strengthening.  The proposed project would contribute to a
strengthening of Poland's capacity at the national and local levels in the areas
selected for conversion activities under the project to: (a) plan and implement,
on a national basis, innovative and cost effective types of environmental
improvement activities, as supported under the proposed GEF project; (b) develop
experience with the design, installation and operation of interventions to
improve heat supply systems; (c) create an institutional capability to assessment
global externalities such as CO2 emission abatement in project analyses; and (d)
improve the implementation of public awareness programs for energy conservation.
Proposed Derhonstration Projects
7.    The Setting.  The City of Krakow and surrounding Krakow voivodship are one
of five officially designated areas of ecological disaster in Poland. This area
suffers from serious air and water pollution generated locally and from regional
problems caused by the urban industrial center of Katowice immediately to the
west.  Air pollution in Krakow is acute during the winter heating season and
causes serious problems to human health, damages natural resources and degrades
the historical structures of the city, which is a UNESCO-designated World
Heritage  Site.   Polish and foreign environmental health specialists have
identified the emission of large amounts of particulates from the coal-fired
boilers, which have relatively low stacks, as the highest priority problem to
address in Krakow and other major Polish cities. Since 1989, the City of Krakow
and the Voivodship of Krakow have actively worked with national and international
technical and financial organizations, including the Bank, the US Department of
Energy and the US Environmental Protection Agency, to address these problems.
8.    Proposed Demonstration Sites.  Because of the poor air quality in Krakow,
which seasonally exceeds ambient standards, and the demonstrated ability of the
local government to implement environmental improvement projects, the city of
Krakow was selected for the implementation of the pilot activities for the



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
proposed project.  Two sites have been selected for demonstration coal-to-gas
conversions: (i) the Jana Street site and (ii) the Warszawska Street site. Both
sites are in the central area of the city of Krakow and involve the replacement
of low-efficiency coal-fired boilers  in existing boiler houses with high-
efficiency gas-fired boilers.   Review of these sites by local authorities
indicates there are no sensitive receptors in the area of the proposed
facilities.
9.    Potential Environmental Impacts.   Bank environmental staff and Polish
environmental authorities have both reviewed the proposed pilot projects and
found them to be consistent with their respective environmental requirements.
The Environmental Protection Department of the Voivodship of Krakow, which has
clearance authority for projects of this type and scale under Polish
environmental procedures, has issued an environmental clearance for these
activities. Implementation of the proposed pilot activities in Krakow would have
a positive impact on local air quality, especially during the winter heating
season, and would contribute on an incremental basis to improved air quality
regionally. In addition, these projects would complement the ongoing program in
the city of Krakow to reduce pollution from small and medium-scale boiler houses.
Project implementation would eliminate the use of 4,238 tons of coal per year and
replace them with clean burning natural gas, a shift that would improve ambient
air quality in the historic city center.   On local and regional levels, the
change in fuel types and the introduction of higher efficiency boilers would
result in an average annual reduction of emissions of S02 by about 118 tons and
of particulates by about 80 tons. The pilot activities would contribute global
benefits through the reduction of CO2 emissions by an estimated 10,050 tons per
year.
10.   Environmental Mitigation Actions.        Review of the proposed activities
indicated that the following mitigation actions need to be undertaken during
implementation:
(a)   Removal and Disposal of Waste Materials.   The primary mitigation
measure required is proper removal and disposal of an undetermined
amount of asbestos, used to insulate the boiler houses. The amount
of asbestos and its condition can only be fully assessed during
demolition. The Bank would require that the contractors for this
aspect of the proposed pilot projects remove the asbestos consistent
with Polish requirements and good international practices, under the
supervision of the local implementing agency.   The Department of
Environmental Protection of the Voivodship of Krakow would oversee
the safe disposal of the asbestos wastes generated by the proposed
pilot projects.
(b)   System Safetv.  The use of gas as a fuel creates a potential risk of
explosion that can be dangerous in urban areas.   However, well-
established mitigation measures exist to ensure that the design,
installation of fuel supply systems, construction of boiler houses,
and their operation and maintenance  can be done  safely.   The



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
proposed pilot activities would include provisions for an automatic
gas monitoring and alarm system. Following both Polish requirements
and  international   practices,   installation  and  construction
contractors would follow proper safety procedures and an emergency
management system would be developed for each facility.
11.   Institutional Strengthenina.  The proposed pilot project would strengthen
the local implementing agency in the areas of planning, management and monitoring
of this type of investment activity. Since 1990 the Department of Environmental
Protection in the Voivodship of Krakow has participated in the Bank-funded
Environmental Management Project and has developed a significant capability to
supervise  internationally  funded environmental  management  projects.    This
department would oversee all environmental matters associated with the pilot
projects.
12.   Environmental Monitoring.  The Department of Environmental Protection of
the Voivodship of Krakow would be responsible for monitoring the proper removal
and disposal of asbestos during the implementation phase of the proposed pilot
projects. The recently installed Katowice-Krakow regional air quality monitoring
system, funded with support from the US Environmental Protection Agency and the
Bank's Environmental Management Project, would be used to monitor the operational
performance of the proposed pilot projects. This system includes a network of
stationary monitoring stations and mobile monitoring equipment for facility-
specific monitoring.
GEF Project Replicability Framework - Environmental Guidelines
13.   Introduction.  These guidelines have been prepared to provide guidance to
cooperating organizations and consultants in addressing the environmental aspects
of proposed activities to be supported by the GEF Project Replicability
Framework. The guidelines correspond to the environmental review procedures of
the Government of Poland and the World Bank (Operational Directive 4.01
"Environmental Assessment").  These activities have been placed in World Bank
environmental screening category "B" and require the preparation of an
environmental review for each activity. Special attention should be given to the
provisions of Annex C of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, which provides
information concerning the preparation of an environmental mitigation plan.
14.   Environmental Review.  For each proposed coal-to-gas conversion activity,
an environmental review is to be prepared that provides: (a) a concise analysis
of the potential environmental issues; and (b) identification of specific actions
that should be taken to address their management.   The environmental reviews
should be no more than 5-10 pages except where complex site-specific problems are
identified. In cases where the requested information is provided elsewhere in
the feasibility study, it should be noted and cross-referenced in the text of the
environmental review to avoid duplication. These reviews would require clearance
by the Department of Environmental Protection of the concerned voivodship.



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
15.   Analysis of Potential Impacts.  The environmental review for each activity
should provide a concise analysis of the potential environmental impacts of the
coal-to-gas conversion projects, including the following:
(a)   Description of the Current System.  This description would include
a brief overview of the elements of the proposed system, including
the fuel type(s), location of the boiler(s) and air quality impacts
from the boilers burning their present fuel.   It should also have
a map showing the key elements of the system with reference to
current and proposed land use. If such information is provided in
the feasibility study, it may be cross-referenced in the
environmental review.
(b)   Description  of  Proposed  Improvements  to  the  System.         This
description would include a brief overview of the proposed
improvement to the system. It should include a map showing the key
elements of the modified system with reference to current and
proposed  land  use.    If  such  information  is  provided  in  the
feasibility study, it may be cross-referenced in the environmental
review.
(c)   Identification of Potential Significant Environmental Impacts.  The
review would include an analysis of the potential significant
adverse impacts that are anticipated to arise from implementation of
the proposed activity. Specific attention should be given to the
following issues:
*     System Modification/Replacement.  The review should describe
the potential environmental impacts, both positive and
negative, associated with the modification and/or replacement
of the system.
o     Removal and Disposal of Waste Materials.  The review should
describe the potential issues associated with the removal of
the waste materials associated with the conversion of the
boiler and other modifications  to the  systems.    Special
attention should be paid to issues relating to the management
of asbestos with regard to the amount used, its type and
mixture. Information should be provided on how asbestos and
any other debris from the rehabilitation should be removed,
type of equipment to be used, personnel and safety procedures
to be followed, transportation methods and secure disposal of
the materials removed.
*     Impact on Air Quality.  The review should evaluate possible
adverse impacts on air quality resulting from the operation of
the boiler houses. The air quality analysis should include an
evaluation of present air quality impacts and air quality
impacts from the converted system and relate these to current



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Polish environmental standards.   The air quality analysis
should identify the location of any sensitive receptors such
as hospitals, schools or sanitoria that may be affected.
*     System Safety Measures.    The review should describe  the
provisions to be included in the proposed activity to ensure
that the design and installation of the gas supply systems,
construction of gas boiler houses, and their operation and
maintenance are done safely.
*     Environmental Clearances  and Permits.   The review should
identify the environmental clearances or permits that are
necessary for the proposed project.
16.   Environmental Mitigation Plan.  The review should provide an Environmental
Mitigation Plan that identifies the proposed actions to be taken to address, in
a cost-effective manner, the potential adverse environmental impacts associated
with the implementation and operation of the proposed project activity. This
information should include an explanation of the need for the proposed action,
its estimated cost and identification of the institution(s) responsible for
implementing the action.
17.   Environmental Monitoring.  The review should identify actions to be taken
by the concerned utility, local government and/or local Department of
Environmental Protection concerning environmental monitoring of the activities
associated with the construction and/or operation of the proposed project
activity. These activities may include actions concerning the disposal of waste
materials from conversion of the system.
18.   Institutional Strengthening.   The review should identify any specific
institutional strengthening and training that may be required to address the
environmental issues associated with implementation of the proposed activity.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Residential Energy Efficiency
Within the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project
Residential Energy Efficiency Context
1.    ARplication to Existing Residential Buildings.  Many of the anticipated
boilers to be converted from coal to gas within this GEF project would be
supplying heat to existing buildings, in particular to existing residential
buildings.   Many existing  residential buildings  are inefficient high-rise
apartment blocks. Each GEF boiler conversion project would involve evaluation
and implementation of cost-effective improvements in end-use efficiency. For
those conversion projects that involve boiler replacement as part of the coal-to-
gas conversion, improved building energy efficiency could result in a downsizing
of the replacement boiler. Thus, examination of cost-effective energy-efficiency
retrofit measures for existing residences would be part of applicable boiler
conversion projects.
2.    Application to New Residential Buildings.  During the appraisal phase of
this GEF project, several new housing projects were examined as possible
candidates for a total energy housing pilot project. The concept was to combine
highly energy-efficient residential construction and operations with a boiler
conversion project including a combined heat and power system to produce an
extremely energy-efficient housing project compared with existing practice. Upon
closer examination of each project, including review of project drawings and site
visits, each project was determined to be unsuitable for the GEF coal-to-gas
conversion. Most of the housing projects were either constructed adjacent to a
main district heating system supplied by an efficient combined heat and power
(CHP) plant (in which case no additional heat source is needed) or were already
planned to use natural gas (in which case the coal-to-gas conversion concept is
inapplicable).
3.    Further factor has been a recent major change in the nature of Polish
residential construction. Traditionally most existing residential units have
been built as high-rise apartment blocks. Today these are far less desirable
than single family dwellings or low density townhouse complexes. Consequently,
most new housing projects involve single family dwellings or townhouses.   A
shortage of both construction and mortgage financing forces new housing complexes
to be constructed in several stages of about 100 units each or less. Because
lower densities reduce the cost-effectiveness of a central heating plant and
because of other factors including cleaner operation, most new projects are
opting for individual gas furnaces in each unit. Because of scarce financial
resources and undeveloped market channels, the gas heating systems being
installed have low efficiencies compared with the efficiencies routinely used in
the Western Europe and US markets.
4.    Present construction practice together with present energy prices inhibits
solutions to new housing construction practices with minimal negative



Annex 10
Page 2 of 5
environmental and energy impacts. Typical current construction practices, while
they include double panel windows and insulation levels at code thickness, need
better construction detailing to achieve the energy savings indicated by the
provisions of the code.
5.    Even where new units are constructed, scarce resources force a focus on a
minimum first cost, and only rudimentary levels of energy efficiency are
currently considered or are likely to be considered in the future. Already the
standards for building energy-efficiency in Polish codes are low compared with
European  ones.    Unfortunately,  this  situation  virtually  precludes  the
establishment of local markets for the wide variety of advanced energy-efficiency
housing products -- insulation, glazing, lighting and appliances -- that are
widely available internationally and only a short distance away in Western
Europe. Likewise, an energy service industry does not exist, nor is an effective
one likely to develop in the near future because of the lack of sufficient
construction or ability to include more expensive options in housing units that
are already too expensive for most people. The considerable technical skills
that exist in Poland cannot be applied to housing construction.
6.    While the effort to find a total energy housing pilot project prior to the
appraisal of the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project was not successful, a number
of valuable lessons were learned:
(a)   A number of new housing projects do fit the GEF Coal-to-Gas Project
criteria. Especially applicable are those projects in which new in-
fill housing is planned adjacent to existing apartment units with a
coal- or coke-fired heating plant, and the new housing plans to tap
into existing boilers. A follow-up project that could be eligible
for financing under the GEF project could involve a combination of:
(i) the coal-to-gas conversion of the existing boiler house with
energy efficiency improvements in the existing heat distribution,
transfer and end-user systems; and (ii) high-efficiency energy
design and equipment for the new housing units, whether they are
apartments, townhouses, houses or a mixture.
(b)   From a national perspective, current Polish standards for housing
energy efficiency need to be revised to reach optimal levels for
energy efficiency; and
(c)   Changes in current construction and inspection practices, through
simple, pragmatic education of contractors, workers and inspectors
in conjunction with demonstration projects to encourage revised
practices, would improve energy efficiency.
7.    Identifying and implementing a total energy housing pilot project and other
energy efficiency housing projects within the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project
remain a high priority.
Energy Efficiency Fund for New Residential Buildings
8.    The need to reduce the energy costs of housing is considerable. The Poland



Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
- Housing Project (Loan 3499-POL) limits mortgage payments to 25 percent of
monthly family income. The maximum mortgage amount is 36 times monthly family
income.   These limits essentially permit allowable funding to cover basic
construction costs; use of the loan fund for energy-efficient materials and
equipment is severely constrained.
9.    Meanwhile, the cost of heating houses has risen sharply.  In 1989 house
heating bills for individual homes, which were subsidized, were less than 0.5
percent of income. Since 1990 energy pricing reform has made major progress,
bringing about significant increases in the prices of network fuels (about 60
percent of their estimated economic  levels).   Heating costs have quickly
increased from an incidental level to a significant portion of total housing
costs: as of the end of 1993, house heating bills were about 12 percent of
disposable income. By 1994-95, housing heating bills are expected to reach 15-17
percent of disposable income. Thus, the cost to heat houses is about one-half
the proposed mortgage payment, and may soon rise to a higher proportion of the
mortgage.
10.   Calculations have not yet been made for reducing energy use in new houses
from current levels to economically optimal levels for the country. Further, the
latter has not yet been determined. However, energy reductions in new housing
construction of about 30-35 percent should be cost-effective. These reductions
could be achieved by increasing window insulation by 30%, doubling wall
insulation, and increasing roof insulation by two or three times.
11.   An Energy Efficiency Fund (EE Fund) under the GEF project would have the
following objectives: (a) implement a pilot program for energy efficiency in new
residential buildings: (b) permit practical experience to be attained; and (c)
initiate the building-up of housing energy efficiency equipment in local markets.
12.   The proposed set-up for the EE Fund would be as follows:
(a)   The EE Fund would be provided to applicants who have  secured
construction financing.
(b)   BOS would manage this project component with the assistance of
qualified energy auditors.
(c)   The EE Fund would grant-finance incremental energy efficiency and
conservation measures.
(d)   A free energy audit would be provided to applicants provided that
they would agree to: (i) implement the measures identified by BOS'
energy auditors for improving the energy efficiency of the
applicants' architectural design and construction; and (ii) allow
BOS' energy auditors to carry out periodic site inspection during
construction and installation of energy-efficient equipment and
monitor the performance of the new residential units for one year of
occupancy of the residential units by the unit owners/tenants.
(e)   The beneficiaries of the EE Fund would be owners of new residential



Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
buildings. Developers could also apply to the EE Fund provided that
they do not change the prices of the residential units as agreed
between the developers and the qualified buyers. The latter would
be the final owners of the residential units.  This would ensure
that the final beneficiaries of the grant are the owners of the new
residential units and that the developers are not increasing their
profit through the GEF grant.
Energy Efficiency Fund
13.   Types of Housing Projects.  Most of the housing projects have an average
size of 60 units per project, with a range of 8 to 148 units.  To date, the
majority of new housing is multi-family, multi-story building projects, with
limited area for commercial space. The average size of each unit is 67.9 square
meters (mi2) in net usable area, and the average cost per unit is US$19,700.  A
few housing projects now are either single family or townhouse, but that number
is expected to increase as the economy improves. In that case, the average size
and unit cost will increase, as the average size of a single family unit is about
120 m2 of net usable area.
14.   Energy  Efficiency  and  Conservation  Measures.    The  Warsaw  Energy
Conservation Foundation carried out a preliminary energy analysis on a single
family detached, two-story building, with a heated space of 150 m2 and a volume
of 500 cubic meters (m 3), using a computer software program for assessing housing
efficiency.   For such a building, the heat energy consumption based on current
minimal Polish standards would be 101.81 kWh/m2. A 20 percent reduction in heat
consumption can be achieved at minimum cost by: (a) increasing the wall and
ceiling insulation by 4 and 17 centimeters, respectively (equivalent to an
increase in thermal resistivity (or R-value) of about 1.6 m2'K/W for wall
insulation and 3.5 m21K/W for ceiling insulation)2!;  and (b) improving the
window insulation standard (reducing the conductance or U-value from 2.6 W/m2OK
to 2.0 W/m2oK).  These measures together would reduce heat consumption to 81.32
kWh/mi2.
15.   Better automation and control of heat consumption can provide an additional
10 percent reduction in heat consumption. This reduction would bring the heat
consumption factor down from 81.32 to 73.19 kWh/m2.   This savings could be
achieved by increasing the efficiency of the heat installation, using efficient
heat radiators, the installation of thermostatic valves, and the installation of
building heat measuring systems with evaporator meters at unit levels for cost-
1/
The heat losses by conduction through a building component (such as wall, window and ceiling), expressed
in Watt (W), are calculated by multiplying the conductance of the component by the area of the component
(in square meters (m2)) and by the temperature difference (in degree Kelvin (°K)) between the inside
temperature and the outside temperature. The inside temperature is the average temperature of the room for
walls and windows or the average temperature at the ceiling. The outside temperature is the summer or winter
design temperature for the geographical location considered. The conductance (or U-value), expressed in
W/(m2 OK), is specific to the building component and is also defined as the inverse of the thermal resistivity,
which is expressed in m2 OK/W. For a given area of the component and a given temperature difference, the
heat losses would decrease as the conductance decreases (or as the thermal resistivity increases).



Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
sharing.
16.   An additional 20 percent reduction in heat consumption could be achieved
by introducing a heat recuperator. Acting as a heat exchanger, this device uses
heat from the exhaust air to pre-heat the outside air used for ventilation.
Besides its energy conservation benefit, it also permits better control of the
ventilation for improved air quality in the building. This device would bring
the heat consumption factor down from 73.19 to 43.26 kWh/m2.
17.   The introduction of energy-efficient appliances together with education for
homeowners on how to conserve energy could reduce electricity consumption by 15-
25 percent. This reduction would bring the electricity consumption factor down
from its present estimated level of 12.76 kWh/m2/person to an estimated level of
9.57 kWh/m2/person.
18.   Energy-Related Construction Costs.    Energy efficiency and conservation
measures would be evaluated case-by-case. Their costs could range from US$1,155
to US$1,400 per apartment unit /Y,  For example, without the heat recuperator,
the incremental cost of the energy efficiency measures is estimated at about 2.53
percent of current total construction costs; with the heat recuperator, it is
estimated at 4.6 percent of current total construction costs.
19.   Energy Efficiency Fund.  US$1.0 million is proposed for the EE Fund under
this CEF project. Depending on the energy efficiency and conservation measures
considered, the fund would provide incremental financing for improvements in
about 600 to 800 new residential units over a 36-month period.   Expected
disbursements of the fund would be US$250,000, US$475,000 and US$200,000 in the
first year,  second year and third year of the project,  respectively.   The
remaining US$75,000 would cover BOS' management fee (US$25,000) and energy audits
(US$50,000). The audits would consist of: (a) an evaluation of the baseline (or
existing) conditions; (b) an energy estimate of the baseline; (c) an evaluation
of the energy measures to be used; (d) an energy estimate of the new conditions;
(d) quality control and site inspection during construction; and (e) monitoring
of the energy consumption of the constructed units for one year of occupancy of
the new residential units by the unit owners or tenants.
20.   Availability of Technical Skills.  Poland has the analytical skills needed
for the technical and cost-effectiveness analysis. The Polish Building Research
Institute has analyzed energy options in housing and has produced a primer on the
subject. Other institutes, such as the Polish Energy Conservation Foundation,
have developed a simplified energy analysis software program (similar to programs
in use in Canada and the United States) for use in housing. They are training
technicians in each region in its use.
2/    The costs of energy efficiency and conservation measures for apartment unit were conservatively estimated
by interpolating the results of the analysis made on the single family detached, two-story building, including
related costs of measures, to a 68-M2 apartment unit.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Environmental Monitoring Program
Coal-to-Gas Conversion Component
1.    Objective.  The objective of the environmental monitoring program for the
coal-to-gas conversion component of the project is to provide data to assess the
energy savings, emission reductions and cost-effectiveness factors associated
with the conversion of coal-fired boilers to natural gas firing rather than a
monitoring program concerned with regulatory functions whose objective is to
enforce air quality standards to control air pollution. Specialist contractors
would implement the monitoring program under the supervision of the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE).   In order to
assure the standardization of data collection and analysis procedures, a single
contractor acceptable to the Bank would be responsible for conducting the
monitoring activities on a nation wide basis for the implementation phase of the
coal-to-gas conversion component of the project. In its supervision task, MoE
would be assisted by the State Inspectorate for Environmental Protection (SIEP)
and SIEP's regional voivodship inspectorates.
2.    Scope of Work.  The monitoring activities under the project would consist
of:
(a)   the collection of data on ambient air quality where it is available
from existing monitoring systems such as in the Katowice-Krakow
region;
(b)   the establishment of baseline data for the two pilot projects in
Krakow;
(c)   the  development  of  a  plan  for  data  to  be  collected  for  a
representative sample of boiler types during the implementation
phase of the conversion program, including: (i) the specification of
the parameters to be monitored and of the standardized procedures
for their reliable measurement; (ii) the types of measuring
instruments to be used; and (iii) the procedures to be used for the
calibration and inter-calibration of the instruments to be used for
the monitoring; and
(d)   the specification of standardized methods  for the analysis  and
presentation of data collected for individual projects, including
the development of a standardized format for monitoring and
reporting; and



Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
(e)   the implementation of the individual monitoring services for the
follow-up conversion projects, at the project sites, to be conducted
on the basis of individual work orders.
3.    Monitoring of Individual Projects.  The monitoring of individual projects,
as discussed below, consists of the pre-conversion and post-conversion monitoring
of the environmental and technical performance of the individual projects.
4.    Pre-conversion Monitoring.   As soon as the Scientific and Technical
Advisory Panel (STAP) approves an application to participate in the coal-to-gas
conversion project, the boiler owner is obliged to start the following pre-
conversion monitoring activities, according to a given design and equipment that
are supplied to the owner:
(a)   Data on ambient air quality should be collected over a one-year
period, where monitoring systems have been established; and
(b)   Pre-conversion boiler performance monitoring during operation would
include the following:
(i)   The emission monitoring would consist of the monitoring of the
emissions of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide) as well as
local polluting gases (nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides,
volatile organic compounds and particulates) from the existing
coal-fired boiler; and
(ii) The technical monitoring would consist of the monitoring of
parameters critical to the performance and efficiency of the
overall energy supply, distribution and consumption system and
would include:
(1)   an assessment of the condition of the boiler and
auxiliary equipment; energy, water and carbon
balances; boiler performance over its normal load
range; monitoring of power consumption and other
parameters critical to overall boiler efficiency;
and
(2)   an assessment  of the conditions  of the heat
transfer and distribution systems and end-user
facilities served by the existing boiler,
including an estimation of the power and energy
consumption and of the heat and water losses in
these systems.
The pre-conversion monitoring would permit to report on the environmental
and technical performance of the individual project on an annual basis.  The
results of this monitoring would, together with the calculations based on
information given in the application, define the base case conditions that would



Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
provide the reference framework to permit measurement of the global and local
environmental benefits.
5.    The implementation of the pre-conversion monitoring activities at the
project  site,  including  the  design  of  the  monitoring  system  and  the
identification of the equipment needed for the pre-conversion monitoring phase,
would be the responsibility of the specialist contractor.   The Bank Ochrony
Srodowiska SA (BOS) should immediately take the necessary steps to ensure that
monitoring of the old boilers, prior to conversion, starts upon approval of each
boiler conversion proposal by STAP.
6.    Post-Conversion Monitoring.   A monitoring plan, design of a monitoring
system, and installation of monitoring equipment would be an integral part of the
installation of new gas-fired boilers supported under this project.   Post-
conversion monitoring of emissions and technical performance, together with
collection of data on ambient air quality (see para 3.(a) above), would also be
carried  out  for  the  new  facility.    Post-conversion  monitoring would be
accomplished and reported for each boiler conversion project and for a one-year
period after the commissioning of the new facility. As needed, MoE may define
further monitoring and reporting obligations.
7.    Design of the monitoring system and identification of the equipment needed
for the post-conversion monitoring phase mentioned above, at the project site,
would be the responsibility of the boiler owner's representative, in consultation
with the specialist contractor.   The implementation of the post-conversion
monitoring activities at the project site would be the responsibility of the
specialist contractor.
8.    Reporting.   Upon completion of the pre-conversion and post-conversion
monitoring activities for an individual conversion project, BOS, together with
the boiler owner and the specialist contractor, would prepare a monitoring
report. This report would be a supplement to the project completion report for
that individual project.
9.    Verification.  MoE would, together with SIEP and a small group of experts
who have participated in the monitoring process, establish a process for
verifying system operations, cost-effectiveness and monitoring of emissions.
This "verification" process might be conducted yearly for all projects or
randomly for some projects.  MoE would prepare a verification report for the
overall GEF project that contains the verification for individual projects and
submit it to the Bank.
10.   Budget.  US$250,000 have been allocated under the GEF project to cover all
monitoring related services for the coal-to-gas conversion component of the
project.



Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
Energy Efficiency Projects in New Residential Buildings (EE Fund)
11.   Importance of Quality Control. To achieve the expected energy savings and
minimize the environmental impacts, an energy conservation incentive program for
new residential buildings would need careful quality control mechanisms. Recent
incentive programs to retrofit existing apartment blocks have wasted resources
because of the lack of quality control. The prices were too high and the quality
of installed insulation too low. Experience has already been gained in Poland
about the need for this type of program control.
12.   Energy Audit and Monitoring.  An energy audit and monitoring would consist
of the following five tasks: (a) assessment of the architectural design to
produce  the baseline  condition;  (b)  identification  of  the  cost-effective
incremental energy efficiency and conservation measures to be included in the
project design; (c) design and specification of the quality of all building
supplies and components that would be installed, along with specification of the
standards to follow for the construction and installation of identified energy-
efficient building supplies, components and appliances; (d) regular site
inspections of the construction, including a final inspection for acceptance by
the owner; and (e) evaluation of project performance, over a one-year period of
occupancy of the new residential units by owners or tenants. During the first
task, care must be taken to assure that the prices of the energy conservation
measures to be used are not artificially raised. This concern may be addressed
by, for example, using standardized costs and cost ceilings, insuring competition
among suppliers and contractors and imposing ceilings on GEF support levels.
During the second task, care must also be taken to assure, and confirm, that the
quality of the goods used and construction meets the standards set.  Several
things are required to assure quality: (a) clear criteria and specifications for
the energy measures; (b) clear identification of which measures are selected for
a project; and, (c) a well-defined verification/validation procedure for
checking, by qualified energy auditors, that the contracted measures are actually
installed in accordance with the specifications and are operating properly.
13.   Energy Auditors.   An energy audit would be required for all projects
supported by the EE Fund, to be financed from the fund. In order to assure the
standardization of energy audit procedures, a single contractor acceptable to the
Bank would be responsible for conducting the energy audit-related activities on
a nation wide basis for the implementation phase of the energy efficiency
component of the project.   Energy auditing services for individual energy
efficiency projects would be conducted on the basis of individual work orders.
14.     Budget.  US$50,000 were allocated under the GEF project to pay for the
services of energy auditors.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Implementation Activities
1.    Three important project implementation activities need to begin immediately
after  completion  of  project  negotiations:  (a)  selection  of  an  owner's
representative for the pilot projects in Krakow (both Jana Street and Warszawska
Street); (b) preparation of a nationwide GEF program (first round of candidate
projects);  and (c) implementation of a GEF marketing plan.   Each of these
activities would include substantial involvement of Polish project participants
and would occur simultaneously.
2.    These activities are important for three reasons.   First,  they would
produce the key standardized project documents and procedures needed for
replicability.    Second,  they would  require  the  formation of key project
management and technical groups such as the Scientific and Technical Advisory
Panel (STAP) and core team at Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS), the implementing
agency.    Third,  they would provide  an opportunity  to  initiate  technical
assistance on a pragmatic basis early in the project. Successful accomplishment
of these activities would permit an early start of full-scale project investment
activities upon the completion of the project negotiations.
Selection of an Owner's Representative for the Pilot Projects in Krakow
3.    The first tranche of pilot projects in Krakow (Jana Street and Warszawska
Street) are already well-developed, and steps 1 through 11 of the project flow
diagram in Annex 8 have effectively already been accomplished. For these two
pilot projects, the activities funded under the Project Preparation Advance fund
would permit initiation of the remaining tasks shown in Annex 8 (tasks 12 through
19). Thus, these first two pilot projects can proceed rapidly through the steps
of detailed design, construction, commissioning, operation and monitoring upon
selection of qualified consultants to act as boiler owners' representatives.
Terms of Reference (TORs) for the boiler owners' representatives for the pilot
projects are presented in Annex 22. The Polytechnic University of Krakow and the
municipal district heating enterprise of Krakow (MPEC Krakow) prepared a Letter
of Invitation for Consulting Services, cleared it with the Bank, issued it to a
short-list of qualified consulting firms approved by the Bank and are now
reviewing the proposals received.
4.    Activities on these pilot projects would continue throughout the project
preparation phase and be completed during the early stages of the full project
following the completion of project negotiations.
Preparation of a Nationwide Program (First Round of Candidate Projects)
5.    Beginning the first round of projects under a full nationwide program would
require accomplishing for the first time (on a more formal basis) steps 1
through 11 of the project flow diagram in Annex 8. Some 20 potential projects



Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
in several regions had been identified by the end of the appraisal mission.
Additional projects would be identified from these and other regions, and the set
of applications would be evaluated together.
6.    Forming project teams.  Initiating the first round of projects under the
full GEF program would be accomplished primarily by the key Polish project teams,
in  a  "learn-by-doing"  mode,  with  substantial  assistance  from  experts
participating on STAP and from qualified consultants on project appraisal,
implementation and administration.   BOS has already established a core GEF
project implementation unit (PIU) comprised of three staff in Warsaw working
full-time on the GEF project, assisted by two part-time staff in Krakow. It
plans to expand its PIU as individual projects develop. The BOS/GEF core team
received training on the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures and will
receive further comprehensive and intensive training in these areas.
7.    The next necessary step is to select the STAP members (Polish as well as
foreign experts) and to recruit qualified consultants to assist BOS in developing
application forms and in evaluating first-round projects.   The Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry has received expressions
of interest from several potential foreign and Polish candidates for STAP and has
selected STAP members. It has submitted information on the candidates for the
panel to the Bank for approval.
8.    The overall roles and responsibilities for these groups are described in
Annex 7. TORs have been developed for the identified individuals or groups to
cover project implementation activities: these are presented in Annexes 21 to 24.
Contracts for their services must be put into place upon the completion of
project negotiations.
9.    Developing an Operations  Source  Book.   Once STAP and the  selected
consultants are in place, their first task would be to develop an Operations
Source Book for the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project under the supervision of
the BOS core team.  This Operations Source Book would contain examples of all the
forms and procedures needed to accomplish the project development cycle.  For
example, it would include standardized application forms, detailed eligibility
criteria, evaluation forms and procedures, form letters, draft TORs.   Draft
versions of some of these materials have already been developed; they are shown
in Annexes 4. 8-11 and 20-24. These drafts would be refined during the following
steps.
10.   Training and Review Workshop.  This workshop would be held to discuss and
test the materials in the draft Operations Source Book. Members of STAP, local
experts and Technical Advisory Groups and BOS should participate. This workshop
is a key part of the project implementation activities, aimed at ensuring that
key project participants would have a common and consistent understanding of the
project's objectives and procedures.   The workshop would contain sufficient
detail to permit the technical team members and BOS core implementation team to
assist boiler owners to complete the application forms and evaluate the
information submitted. The workshop should place special focus on reviewing and
refining the GEF project evaluation criteria for clarity and appropriate detail
to minimize problems during the first round of project applicants. Technical



Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
assistance requirements, mechanisms and procedures would also be discussed.   It
is expected that some refinement of the contents of the GEF Operations Source
Book would result from discussions at the workshop. The workshop would also be
used to test the concepts and content of the proposed project marketing seminars.
11.   Special Assistance for First-Round Applicants.  The BOS core team and STAP
should be prepared to provide an extra level of assistance to boiler owners
interested in applying during the first round. This special assistance should
focus on helping boiler owners and/or their representatives assess if their
projects are likely to meet the GEF criteria, in particular, to ensure that they
meet the basic criteria before the owners spend funds on pre-feasibility studies
and on environmental impact assessments. Thus, this activity amounts, though an
informal assessment, to a type of financial and technical pre-qualification that
avoids unnecessary expenditures on obviously unqualified projects (see steps 3
and 4 of Figure 8.1 of Annex 8).
12.   Evaluation Workshop. When sufficient applications have been received, STAP
members, including the international ones, and the BOS core team would meet and
review, present and discuss the project applicants relative to both financial and
technical criteria. The workshop would have four objectives: (a) to select the
projects to be included in the first-round of boiler conversions; (b) to refine
the evaluation criteria; (c) to refine the GEF Operations Source Book; and (d)
to review and refine the marketing program, based upon the lessons learned from
the first round of applications.
13.   Continuation of the Development of the Projects Selected.  Following the
evaluation workshop, BOS would begin to administer the projects selected,
according to the activity sequence listed in Figure 8.1 of Annex 8. STAP should
be prepared to provide continued technical assistance, as necessary, for the
projects.
14.   Refinement of the GEF Operations Source Book.  BOS should incorporate the
refinements identified from the first round of applications and the evaluation
workshop. This revised version should be suitable for distribution to and use
by technical experts and local BOS offices in designated regions and locales.
Implementation of the Marketing Plan
15.   A draft marketing plan for the GEF project and drafts of key marketing
documents was completed prior to the project negotiations. This completion would
set the stage for implementation of a comprehensive promotion of the GEF project
immediately after effectiveness of the GEF grant. Key marketing allies would be
identified and contacted early and key marketing resources -- a brochure and
seminar contents -- would be prepared for use at the outset of full project
activities. TORs for the marketing plan are contained in Annex 25.



Annex 13
Table 13-1
POLAND - GEF COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Costs
Krakow Pilot Project - Base Costs
US$ thousand
| Local I Foreign    Total
Base Costs for Condensing Boiler Scheme at Jana Street
Natural Gas-fired boilers, incl. firing, 3 x 0.5 MWth                         90         90
Connection of outflow and return-flow to the existing
accumulators and distributors, and to boiler-house 1             20                   20
Exhaust-side connection to stack                                     5                    5
Fuel side connection to natural-gas network                         10                   10
Conversion of existing stack to condensing boiler operation                   45         45
Water treatment (partial desalineation and degasing)                20                   20
Building improvements                                               10                   10
Provision for safe removal and disposal of asbestos                 30                   30
Total Plant                                                      95       135         230
Gas Pipeline                                                        50                   50
Energy conservation measures in consumers' buidlings                          50         50
Engineering and Project Management Services    /a                    5        15         20
PROJECT BASE COSTS AT JANA STREET                               150       200        350
Base Costs for Cogeneration Scheme at the Polytechnic University
Packaged Cogeneration Unit
Gas-turbine, 1.3 MWel
Waste heat recovery boiler, steam 2.2 MWth
Stack
Hydraulic connection
Water treatment
Dual-fuel supply (gas and light oil)
Gas compressor
Hot water storage
Sound-proofing
Total - Cogeneration Unit                                          1,700      1,700
Peak boilers
Hot water boilers, 3 x 1.5 MWth                                 170                  170
Steam Boilers, 2 x 0.7 MWth                                     110                   110
Electrical connections to grid & regulation                        620                  620
Steam pipeline for connection University/Citizens Home             150                  150
Building Improvements                                              190                  190
Other miscellaneous                                                340                  340
Provision for safe removal and disposal of asbestos                150                  150
Total Plant                                                    1,580     1,700      3,280
Gas Pipeline                                                       380                  380
Energy conservation measures in consumers' buidlings               230       230        460
Engineering and Project Management Services    /a                   50       250        300
PROJECT BASE COSTS AT POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY                  2,240     2,180       4,420
TOTAL BASE COSTS - KRAKOW PILOT PROJECT                        2,390     2,380      4,770
Note:   /a   Average costs of services for Boiler Owner Representatives, covering multiple individual projects.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Costs - Investment Component
(US$ thousand)
NUMBER OF GEF INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS
1995                1996                  1997                  1998               1999             2000                    Total
Cogeneration Technology                   1                    3                     2                                                                                 a
High Efficiency Boiler Technolgy          1                  20                     17                                                                                38
AVERAGE COST PER CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY
Cogeneration High Efficiency Boiler
Base cost                            4,420                 350
Physical contingency                  442                   35
Price contingency                     238                   18
Total cost                           5,100                 403
TYPICAL DISBURSEMENT PROFILE (YEAR 1 - YEAR OF PROJECT APPROVAL)
Year 1              Year 2                Year 3
Cogeneration System                     15%                  75%                   10%
High Efficiency Boiler System           35%                  85%
INVESTMENT COMPONENT (INCLUDING ENGINEERING AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES)
1995                1996                  1997                  1998               1999              2000                  TOTAL
CONVERSION COMPONENT              L     F      T      L      F      T      L       F      T       L      F      T     L    F       T     L   F      T       L       F       T
High Efficiency Boiler Systems
Base cost                         58    65   123  1,262  1.415  2,678  3,127  3,506   6.633  1,823  2,044  3.868                                           6,270   7,030  13,302
Physical contingency               e      7    12   126   142    268    313    351        663    182   204    387                                            627    704   1,330
Price contingency                                      32    35      87    158    178    336   140   157    297                                              330    370    700
Total cost                         64    72   135  1,420  1,592  3,013  3,598  4,035   7,632  2,145  2.405  4.552                                           7,227   8,104  15,332
Cogeneration Systems
Base cost                        379   293   672  3,003  2,328  5,331  6,604  5,118  11,722  4,467  3.462  7,930  488   378    866                        14,941  11,579  26,521
Physical contingency              38    29    67   300   233    533    880    512   1,172   447   346    793   49    38             87                     1,494   1,158   2,652
Price contingency                                      75    58    133    334    259    593   344   266    610  51    39            90                       804    622   1,426
Total cost                        417   322   739  3,378  2,619  5,997  7,598  5,889  13,487  5.258  4,074  9,333  588   455   1,043                       17,239  13.359  30,599
Total Conversion Component
Base cost                        437   358   795  4,265  3,743  8,009  9,731  8,624  18,355  6,290  5,506 11,798  488   378    866                        21,211  18,609  39,823
Physical contingency              44    36    79   426   375    801    973    863   1,835   629   550  1,180   49    38             87                     2,121   1,862   3,982
Price contingency                                     107    93    200    492    437    929   484   423    907   51    39           90                     1 134     992   2 126
Total cost                        481   394   874  4,798  4,211  9,010 11,196  9,924  21,119  7,403  6,479 13.885  588   455   1,043                       24,466  21,463  45,931         > H  D
Energy Efficiency Fund
for New Residential Buildings            125   125            383    363            337    337            100    100                                                  925    925
TOTAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT  481   519   999  4,798  4,574  9,373 11,196 10.261 121,456  7.403  6,579 13,985  688   455   1,043                    _24,4e6  22,388  46,856   O  w  w
Notes:  L: Local cost; F: Foreign cost; T: Total cost                                                                                                                               N>
Total costs include engineering and project management services estimated at US$250,000 per cogeneration project and US$15,000 per high efficiency boiler project.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Cost - Technical Assistance Component /a /b
(US$ thousand)
1996 W5                                   1997                  19_ _               19W9              2000                 TOTAL
L     F     T      L      F      T       L      F       T       L      F     T      L    F       T     L   F      T        L      F       T
BOS MANAGBJENT FEE
Start-up costs                           55    55                                                                                                                      55      55
Performance fee  /c                      25    25            122    122            209    209            153    153          49      49         7       7            565    565
Management Fee                    so    80            122    122            209    209            153    153          49      49         7       7            620    620
TECHNICAL ADVISORS (STAP)                 30    30             60     60             60      60            10      10         10      10        20      20             190     190
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
- Environmental Monitoring               30    30            50      50             50      50            50     50          50      50       20      20             250    250
- Marketing Program                     100   100            40      40                                                                       10      10             150     150
Sub-total - Contractual Services        130   130            90      90             50      50           50      50          50      50       30      30             400    400
ENERGY AUDITING SERVICES                   8      8            22     22             16      16             4       4                                                   50      50
EXTERNAL FINANCIAL
AUDITING SERVICES                      10    10             10     10             10      10            10      10         10      10        10      10              60      60
TRAJNING
&OTHER CONSULTING SERVICES               40    40             50     50             20      20            10      10         10      10        10      10             140     140
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               298   298            354    354            365    365            237    237         129    129         77      77           1,460   1,460
Notes:  /a  GEF grant will cover 100% of local and foreign expenditures under the technical assistance. For this reason, it is shown as foreign cost.
/b Including Contractual Services
/c Equivalent to 2.3% of the GEF grant contribution for the investment component.
Project Costs - Total
(US$ thousand)
1995                1996                   1997                 1998                1999              2000                 TOTAL
LL      F     T                  T                                                  L     F                    |  T       L        F       T
INVESTMENTCOMPONENT               481   519   999  4,798  4,574  9,373 11,196 10,261  21,456  7,403  6,579 13,985  588   455   1,043                        24,466  22,388  46,856
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         {                                   t                                        t                                       I
(incl. contractual services)            298   298            354    354         1,365    365             237    237      { 129      129        77      77         | 1,460   1,460
|   TOTALCOST             481   817  1,297  4,798  4,928  9,727 11,196 10,626  21,821  7,403 | 6,816 14,222  588   584   1,172        | 77      77  24.466  23.848  48,316
____________________              ___________         ____________             GEF  GRANT  FINANCING
INVESTMENTCOMPONENT                             615                 4,994                 11,044                7,260                627                  1                 24,540         >
1TECHNICALASSISTANCE             |                                                              1                  _ I                _ I               _                           Oq  J|
(incl. contractual services)                   298                  354                    365                   237                129                77                   1,460  (D |- CD
I  I            I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D X
TOTAL AMOUNT: -annual                           913                 5,348                 11,409                7,497                756                77                  26,000  o
-cumulative                    913                6.261                 17.670               25,167              25,923            26,000
|   - in % of total   |       3.5                  24.1                  68.0                  96.8                99.7            100.0;



Annex 14
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Indicative Financing Plan
for Coal-to-gas Conversion Component
Technology
As % of                   High-Efficiency
Project Cost   Cogeneration     Boiler
Cost per project                    100%   100%         5,099.8         403.5
Average GEF Grant
- Cogeneration System               60%                3,067.2
- High-Efficiency Boiler System            34%                         137.2
Collateral Funding Required          40%    66%         2,032.6         266.3
Indicative Collateral Financing Plan
- National Fund/BOS                 30%    40%         1,529.9         161.4
- Voivodship                         5%    16%          247.7           64.5
- Minimum Owner's Contribution       5%    10%          255.0           40.4
Possible Technology Mix                       TOTAL
Number of projects                                           6            38
Total Cost                                               30,599        15,332   45,931
of which:
- GEF grant                                            18,403          5,212   23,615
- Collateral Funds                                     12,196         10,120   22,316
Indicative Collateral Financing Plan
- National Fund/BOS                                                             15,313
* Cogeneration System             30%                  9,180
* High-Efficiency Boiler System          40%                         6,133
- Voivodship/Other                                                               3,940
* Cogeneration System              5%                  1,486
* High-Efficiency Boiler System           16%                        2,454
- Minimum Owners' Contribution                                                   3,063
* Cogeneration System              5%                  1,530
* High-Efficiency Boiler System           10%                        1,533
Collateral Funding Required         40%S   66%         12,196         10,120   22,316
Indicative Commitment Profile
Schedule for ApDroved GEF Proiects        1995           1996           1997   TOTAL
* Cogeneration System                      1              3              2         6
* High-Efficiency Boiler System            1             20             17        38
Annual Commitment Required for ADoroved GEF Proiects
* Cogeneration System                   5,100         15,300        10,200    30,599
* High-Efficiency Boiler System          403          8.069          6.859    15.332
Total Commitment                     5,503         23,369         17,059   45,931
Indicative Financing Requirements
- GEF Contribution                      3,204         11,946          8,465   23,615
- Collateral Funding
* National Fund/BOS                    1,692         7,817          5,805    15,314
* Voivodship/Other                      312          2,034          1,593     3,939
* Minimum Owners' Contribution          295           1.572         1.196     3.063
Commitment from Collateral Funding     2,299         11,423         8,594   22,316



Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Norwegian Co-financing
1.    The Norwegian Government has allocated an additional grant of US$1.0
million to this project.
2.    The Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) was signed at the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) meeting in Rio de
Janeiro in June 1992. Article 4.2(a) of the Convention states: ". .These Parties
may implement such policies and measures jointly with other Parties..."  Article
4.2(d) states further: "..The Conference of the Parties, at its first session,
shall  also  take  decisions  regarding  criteria  for joint  implementation as
indicated in subparagraph (a) above." The first session of the Conference of the
Parties will take place within three months after the fiftieth country Party have
ratified the Convention. This session is expected to take place in late 1994 or
early 1995.
3.    As the criteria of a joint implementation mechanism are yet to be developed
and decided upon, no emission credits earned through this mechanism may be
awarded under the FCCC.
4.    Against this background, the Norwegian Government has expressed interest
in supporting this GEF project, which may serve as a practical demonstration
project for important elements of a joint implementation scheme under the FCCC.
5.    The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry
(MoEPNRF) and other participants were made fully aware that this project is not
a joint implementation project under the FCCC and that no emission credits would
be calculated or claimed as a part of this project.   MoEPNRF expressed its
interest in the exploratory nature of this GEF project and reaffirmed its
understanding of the status of the project.



Annex 16
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
Procurement Arrangements
1.    The  prospective  beneficiaries  (boiler  owners  assisted  with  their
Engineering consultants) would carried out the procurement of goods, works,
materials, installation and services for individual projects under the
supervision of the central office of the implementing agency, Bank Ochrony
Srodowiska SA (BOS). That office would coordinate all procurement activities.
It has qualified staff and the necessary office equipment, and it has received
training in international procurement by specialized Bank staff. In addition,
two of its staff would participate in the intensive training seminar on Equipment
Procurement Management organized at the International Training Center of the
International Labor Organization in Turin for new Bank borrowers and
beneficiaries.
2.    Each individual conversion project would involve several procurement sub-
packages. Given the relatively low value of these sub-packages, they would be
combined and procured on the basis of one Engineering, Procurement and
Construction (EPC) contract per conversion project. The advantage of a single
EPC contract is that it shifts responsibility for the entire project (mainly, the
interface between sub-packages) to one construction contractor. It also permits
well-coordinated project implementation. Suppliers of the combined procurement
package would be post-qualified. Only single-stage bidding procedures would be
followed under this project. However, a pre-bid conference would be required for
all conversion projects.
3.    In  the  absence  of uniformly  accepted public  procurement  rules  and
regulations in Poland, the Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for
all GEF-financed components.   Central BOS office would be responsible for
ensuring that all procurements under this project follow Bank guidelines.
4.    All procurement packages valued at US$300,000 and above would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.   In the evaluation and comparison of bids for
equipment to be procured through ICB, Polish manufacturers would receive a
domestic preference in the bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the
prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less,
provided they can prove that the value added to the product in Poland exceeds 20
percent of the ex-factory bid price. All procurement for conversion projects
involving cogeneration systems would follow ICB procedures.   Goods and works
procured through ICB would account for at least 75 percent of the goods and works
requirements financed by the GEF and for at least 65 percent of the project fund.
ICB procurement would consist of six EPC packages at an aggregate cost of US$29.1
million, of which US$16.9 million (or 58 percent) are the GEF-financed portion.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 5
Tables 16-1 and 16-2 of this annex summarize the procurement arrangements and the
procurement schedule for goods, works and services.
5.    The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a)   Limited International Bidding (LIB).  This procedure would be used
for individual conversion projects involving high-efficiency heat-
only-boiler systems.   Goods and works procured through LIB would
account for at least 21 percent of goods and works requirements
financed by the GEF, and for at least 18 percent of the project
fund.   LIB procurement would consist of 38 EPC packages at an
aggregate cost of US$14.8 million, of which about US$4.7 million (or
31 percent) are the GEF-financed portion.
(b)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).   Unless stated otherwise,  LCB
procedure, acceptable to the Bank, would be used for the procurement
of contractual services for the environmental monitoring and the
marketing program.    Contracts  awarded under LCB procedure and
discussed below shall not exceed an aggregate amount of about
US$0.37 million equivalent:
(1)   Environmental Monitoring.  This would cover the contracting of
the services for the pre- and post-conversion monitoring of
the environmental and technical performance of individual
projects approved for GEF financing. These services estimated
to cost less than US$250,000 would be contracted into the two
following contracts:
(i)   Recognizing the critical need to collect environmental
and technical data for the two pilot projects in Krakow
during the 1994-95 winter heating season, a service
contract valued at US$20,000 would be awarded to a
qualified contractor on a direct contracting basis.
This contractor would collect the baseline monitoring
data for the pilot projects and provide a standardized
format for the collection of monitoring data to be used
during the implementation phase of the project; and
(ii)  A second service contract valued at US$230,000 would be
awarded to a single contractor following LCB procedure.
This contractor would conduct the monitoring data
collection activities during the implementation phase of
the coal-to-gas conversion component of the project on
the basis of a general work plan that would be reviewed
annually and would focus on the collection of monitoring
data for individual projects to be conducted on the
basis of individual work orders.
(2)   Marketing Program.  This would cover the contracting of the
services to implement the marketing plan developed by the



Annex 16
Page 3 of 5
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry.    This would  include:  (i)  nationwide  marketing
program for the promotion of the GEF project concept, to be
comprised of seminars, written advertising in relevant Polish
magazines, radio and TV advertising, brochures, etc.; and (ii)
post-conversion  survey  of  completed  GEF  projects  and
collection of testimonials from boiler owners about their
experience as beneficiaries of the GEF fund and as owners and
operators of new gas-firing facilities involving high-
efficiency heat technology. These services estimated to cost
less than US$150,000 would be contracted into the following
two contracts:
(i)   For the nationwide marketing program a service contract
valued at US$140,000 would be awarded to a single
contractor following LCB procedure; and
(ii)  For  the  post-conversion  survey  a  service  contract
valued at US$10,000 would be awarded to a qualified
contractor following direct contracting procedure.
(c)   International Shopping (IS) and Local Shopping (LS).  This procedure
would be used for small amounts of equipment and materials such as
heat control and measuring equipment and weatherization equipment,
which are needed to increase the energy efficiency of new
residential buildings.    Contracts  for equipment  and materials
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per package would be awarded
under IS procedure, based on comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible suppliers from at least three different
countries. Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 per package would be awarded under LS procedure,
based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers. Contracts for equipment and materials awarded
under IS and LS procedures shall not exceed an aggregate amount of
about US$1.0 million equivalent.
(d)   Direct Contracting.  This procedure would be used for items of a
proprietary nature, or where compatibility with installed equipment
is required.
(e)   Technical Assistance Services.  The technical assistance services,
as discussed below, include BOS management fee, the services of the
Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP), energy auditing,
external financial auditing and consulting and training services.
These services shall not exceed an aggregate amount of about US$3.13
million equivalent.
(1)   BOS Management Fee.  To cover its cost for administering the
GEF project, BOS would receive a management fee equivalent to
2.5 percent (or US$620,000) of the GEF grant contribution for



Annex 16
Page 4 of 5
the investment component of the project. The management fee
would consist of start-up costs of US$55,000 for the first
year of the project plus a performance-based management fee of
US$565,000. The latter would be a function of BOS' ability to
perform the list of activities necessary to implement this
project successfully and would be calculated as 2.3 percent of
the committed GEF grants for individual investment projects.
(2)   Services of STAP.  An amount of US$190,000 is budgeted for
these  services.    It  would  cover  the  expenses  (travel,
subsistence and honoraria) of both the Polish and foreign
members of the panel. Terms of reference (TORs) for STAP and
a breakdown of the STAP budget are in Table 21-1 of Annex 21.
(3)   Energy Auditing.  A single-source contract for energy auditing
valued at US$50,000 would be awarded to a consulting firm,
acceptable to the Bank. This firm would assist BOS on matters
related to the energy efficiency component (EE fund) of the
project, including the energy audits and appraisals of new
residential buildings that are applicants to the EE fund and
the monitoring of results of completed projects financed from
this fund.
(4)   External Financial Auditing.   A single-source contract for
external financial auditing valued at US$60,000 would be
awarded to an auditing firm, acceptable to the Bank.   This
firm would conduct financial audit of the records and accounts
related to the Project Account, the Special Account and the
Statement of Expenditures.
(5)   Consulting Services and Training.  (i) Qualified short-listed
firms would be invited to submit proposals to provide
consulting services in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use  of Consultants.    It is estimated that five
contracts for services as boiler owners' representatives would
be procured from consulting firms for an aggregate amount of
US$2.07 million. To the extent practical, each contract would
cover multiple boiler conversion projects. Standard TORs for
the boiler owners' representatives have been developed and are
in Annex 22; and (ii) As needed, the services of individual
specialists, acceptable to the Bank, for consulting and
training would also be contracted following direct contracting
procedures. Individual contracts for these local specialists
are estimated to cost less than US$5,000 with an aggregate
amount of US$140,000. These specialists would be needed to
assist BOS, the implementing agency, at various stages of
project preparation, appraisal, implementation, monitoring and
progress reporting. Standard TORs for these specialists have
been developed and are in Annexes 23 and 24.



Annex 16
Page 5 of 5
A procurement schedule for the various components under the
technical assistance component, including procurement arrangements, is
presented in Table 16-2 of this annex.
Procurement Review
6.    For the procurement of goods and works, the Bank would conduct a prior
review of all ICB packages.   In addition,  the Bank's prior review would be
required for the first three LIB packages and subsequent LIB packages would be
subject to prior review of central BOS office. Other contracts would be subject
to the Bank's ex-post reviews. Prior approval would be sought from the Bank for
the use of the LIB, international and local shopping and direct contracting
procurement methods.   The procurement of all contractual services would be
subject to the Bank's prior review.   In the case of consulting services and
training, all TORs and selection procedures (including all single-source
selection of consulting firms) would be subject to prior approval by the Bank,
regardless of value. In addition, prior review would apply to all consulting
contracts above US$100,000 (firms) and US$50,000 (individuals) and for amendments
to consulting contracts that raise the contract value to US$100,000 or above for
firms and US$50,000 or above for individual consultants. All assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, would also be subject to
the Bank's prior review. The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for
1CB and LIB packages and for the recruitment of consultants, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to as necessary for purposes
of the project.



Annex 16
Table 16-1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ thousand)
PROJECT                          PROCUREMENT METHODS             /a
COMPONENTS             ICB    I  LIB   I  LCB    OTHER  /b TOTAL
GOODS, WORKS AND MATERIALS
A. Cogeneration Systems                        29,099                                   29,099
(16,903)                                (16,903)
B. High Efficiency Boiler Systems                        14,762                         14,762
(4,642)                       (4,642)
C. Energy Efficiency Equipment                                                 925        925
for New Residential Buildings                                              (925)       (925)
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
E. Environmental Monitoring                                            230       20        250
. _______    ________ --  (230)   (20)       (250)
F. Marketing Activities                                                140       10        150
.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(140)  (10)  10
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
G. BOS Management Fee                                                           620        620
(620)      (620)
H. Technical Advisors (STAP)                                                    190        190
(190)      (190)
I.  Energy Auditing Services                                                     50         50
(50)       (50)
J.  External Financial Auditing Services                                         60         60
(60)       (60)
K. Training and Consulting Services                                           2,210      2,210
(2,210)    (2,210)
TOTAL                                       29,099    14,762       370    4,085      48,316
i(16,903)   (4,642)   (370)  (4,085)   (26,000)
/a ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited International Bidding
and LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Figures in bracket indicate amounts in US$ million equivalent to be financed from GET and
Norwegian grants.
/b Includes:      (1) International & Local Shopping (aggregate amount US$0.93 million equivalent)
(2) Direct Contracting (aggregate amount US$0.03 million equivalent)
(3) Training & Consulting Services (aggregate amount US$3.13 million equivalent)
awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts
(Cost Estimates (in US$ thousand) and Procurement Methods)
Procurement                                                    1995                  1996                    1997                     TOTAL
Package    Description of Procurement     Cost per   Nunmber of I          Number of |Number of |Number of|
Reference No.         Contract Packages     Package    Packages    Total    Packages        Total     Packages      Total      Packages    Total
A. GOODS, WORKS AND MATERIALS
A.1 INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (ICB)
1  to   6 EPC Contracts for                  $4,850           1    $4,850           31    $14,550          2        $9,700           6   $29,099
Cogeneration Systems             ($2,817)              ($2,817)                ($8,452)                _($5,634)              ($16,903)
A.2 LIMITED INTERNATIONAL BIDDING (LIB). INTERNATIONAL SHOPPING (IS) AND LOCAL SHOPPING (LS)
7      EPC Contracts for                   $388                  $388                  $7,769                   $6,604                $14,762
to      High Efficiency Boiler Systems     ($122)          1     ($122)         20     ($2,443)        17       ($2,077)         38   ($4,642)
45                                                             (LIB)                   (LIB)                   (LIB)
46      Energy Efficiency Equipment for New Buildings 2 packs./IS       3 packs./IS             1 packs./IS               6 packs./IS
to  /a  Buildings (insulation, exterior doors & windows, 2 packs./LS    7 packs./LS            4 packs./LS               13 packs./LS
58      heating instaflation, etc.)              I_ _            ($250)_                 ($475)_                  ($200)_                ($925)
B. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES THROUGH LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (LCB)
1994/95
Cost of Contract
59      Environmental Monitoring                        $230     ($230)
60      Marketing Program                               $140     ($140)
C. CONSULTING SERVICES THROUGH SHORT LIST
1994                             1995                                  1996
Procurement Description of Procurement    Number of Project Sites            Number of Project Sites            Number of Project Sites
Package            Contract Packages      by Conversion Type     Contract    by Conversion Type     Contract    by Conversion Type       Contract
Reference No.                             Cogeneration Condensing   Costs  Cogeneration Condensing    Costs    Cogeneration  Condensing   Costs
I      Boiler Owner's Reprecentative          1           1      $265
- Contract I                l_l__                        ($265)                         _          __l  _l_l
11     Boiler Owner's Representative                                            3                    $750
- Contract ll               l            ll                   l__                           ($750)              l _l
III     Boiler Owner's Representative                                                       20       $300
- Contract III              1           a           L         I           L            I    ($300)              1 _         1
IV      Boiler Owner's Representative                                                                                 2                   $500
- Contract IV               l                                 lll                                                                ($500)   pI '
V      Boiler Owner's Representative                                                                                             17      $255
_-ContractV                 l            l           l         l           l__l1_                                                ($255)   e
Notes: Figures in bracket indicate GEF-tinanced portion.
Procurement schedule excludes contracts for goods, works and services awarded following direct contracting procedure.
/a The number of packages and the use of IS and LS procedures may vary depending on the size and geographical distribution of the residential buildings.



Annex 17
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Project Performance
1.    The maximum total amount of the GEF grant assistance available for the
coal-to-gas conversion activity is US$26.0 million, of which US$24.54 million are
for the investment component. Potential coal-to-gas boiler conversion projects
in Poland far exceed the GEF funds available.   Even those limited GEF funds
could, however, be significantly scaled down if only a few solid individual
projects are identified and their counterpart financing secured within the first
three years of the GEF project.   About 13 percent of GEF project funds are
already committed for the pilot projects in Krakow.   To ensure satisfactory
performance in project identification and appraisal and in the disbursement of
GEF funds, targets for cumulative commitment levels for the GEF grant related to
the investment component of the GEF project would be set as follows: (a) 14
percent (or about US$3.4 million) by the end of the first year; (b) 64 percent
(or about US$15.7 million) by the end of the second year; and (c) 100% (or about
US$24.5 million) by the end of the third year. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the uncommitted portion of the overall GEF grant as of the beginning of
the fourth year would then be canceled.  Table 17-1 below summarizes the target
levels of cumulative commitments by investment component.
Table 17-1: Targets for Cumulative Commitment Levels for GEF Fund
End Of       End of        End of
Project Components       First Year    Second Year    Third Year
A. Coal-to-gas Conversion
- Annual                      3,120        11,883         8,612
- Cumulative                   3,120        15,003       23,615
- Percent                      13%          64%           100%
B. Energy Efficiency Fund
- Annual                       250           475          200
- Cumulative                   250           725          925
- Percent                      27%          78%           100%
C. Total Investment Component
- Annual                      3,370        12,358         8,812
- Cumulative                   3,370       15,728        24,540
- Percent                      14%          64%           100%
Note: Amounts are in thousands of US dollars. The periods for reaching the targets for
cumulative commitment levels of GEF fund would begin with the date of project
effectiveness.



Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
Disbursement Schedule
2.    Investment Component, Consulting Services and Training.  The disbursements
schedule for the GEF grant is presented in Table 17-2 of this annex. Given the
requirement that the GEF funds be committed in the earlier phase of project
implementation (see para. 1 above), the GEF disbursement profile differs from the
Bank's disbursement profile for energy projects in the Europe and Central Asia
Region.
3.    For individual conversion projects, the GEF-financed portion would depend
on site specifics and the conversion technology adopted.   Typically, the GEF
would finance about 34 percent of the cost of a high-efficiency boiler project
and 60 percent of the cost of a cogeneration project.   These ratios would be
determined for each conversion project by the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS)
and confirmed by the Scientific Technical and Advisory Panel (STAP).   Prior
approval by the Bank would be required for the financing ratios of all projects
involving cogeneration systems and of the first three high-efficiency boiler
projects. Financing ratios for subsequent high-efficiency boiler projects would
be subject to prior approval by STAP.  The share of GEF financing for energy
efficiency equipment for new residential buildings would be subject to prior
approval by STAP.
4.    The proceeds of the GEF grant would be allocated as follows:  (a) 100
percent of the GEF-financed portion of eligible direct foreign exchange
expenditures for the supply and installation of equipment and materials; (b) 100
percent of the GEF-financed portion of eligible ex-factory costs of locally
produced goods; (c) 100 percent of the GEF-financed portion of the local
expenditures for the installation of equipment and materials; (d) 85% of the GEF-
financed portion of local expenditures for items procured locally; and (e) 100%
of  foreign  and  local  expenditures  for  contractual  services,   project
administration fees, consulting services and training.
5.    Disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$250,000 equivalent would
be on the basis of statements of expenditures that detail individual
transactions. BOS would retain the documentation to support these expenditures.
This documentation would be audited by independent auditors and made available
to the Bank for review upon request.   Applications for withdrawals against
contracts valued at more than US$250,000 equivalent would be fully documented.
To facilitate disbursements, BOS would establish an US dollar denominated Special
Account.
6.    Given that most of the equipment and materials would be procured following
ICB procedure and that a large share of the consulting services would be procured
from qualified short-listed firms, the authorized allocation of the Special
Account would be US$500,000. Replenishment applications should be for amounts
of not less than US$100,000.



Annex 17
Page 3 of 3
7.    BOS Management Fee.  To cover its cost for administering the GEF project,
BOS would receive a management fee equivalent to 2.5 percent (or US$620,000) of
the estimated GEF grant contribution of US$24.54 million for the investment
component of the project. The management fee would consist of start-up costs of
US$55,000 for the first year of the project plus a performance-based management
fee of US$565,000. The latter would be a function of BOS' ability to perform the
list of activities necessary to implement this project successfully and would be
calculated as 2.3 percent of the committed GEF grants for individual investment
projects. For individual coal-to-gas conversion project, the management fee
could be disbursed as follows: (a) 30 percent of the fee would be paid once the
financing for the individual project is committed; (b) 40 percent would disbursed
upon award and signature of the engineering, procurement and construction
contract; (c) 25 percent would disbursed upon satisfactory project commissioning
and turnover of the new facility to the owner; and (d) the remaining 5 percent
would be disbursed upon satisfactory completion of a technical and environmental
performance monitoring report of the individual project. For individual energy
efficiency project, the management fee could be disbursed as follows: (a) 70
percent of the fee would be disbursed upon award and signature of the equipment
supply contract; and (b) 30 percent would be disbursed upon satisfactory
completion of a performance monitoring report of the individual project. The
management fee shall be payable semi-annually for each semester ending November
30 and May 31 in each fiscal year. The fee would be paid in the aggregate based
on the status of individual projects at the time the amount of the management fee
is calculated.



Annex 17
Table 17-2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Disbursements Schedule
(US$ thousand)
IBRD          SEMESTER             WITHDRAWALS            DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Fiscal Year       ENDING          AMOUNT  CUMULATIVE   PROJECT   STANDARD  /a
1995      December 31, 1994           0           0            0.0%        0.0%
June 30, 1995          457         457            1.8%        3.0%
1996      December 31, 1995         456         913            3.5%       10.0%
June 30, 1996         2,674      3,587           13.8%       18.0%
1997      December 31, 1996        2,674      6,261           24.1%       26.0%
June 30, 1997         5,705     11,966           46.0%       46.0%
1998      December 31, 1997        5,704     17,670           68.0%       54.0%
June 30, 1998        3,749      21,419           82.4%       70.0%
1999      December 31, 1998        3,748     25,167           96.8%       90.0%
June 30, 1999          378      25,545           98.3%       94.0%
2000      December 31, 1999         378      25,923           99.7%       98.0%
June 30, 2000           77      26,000          100.0%      100.0%
/a Bank's standard disbursement profile for the energy sector
in Europe and Central Asia Region, issued on August 1993.



Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1.    Project Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented during
FY1995-2000.  The project's completion date is expected to be June 30, 2000 and
the closing date December 31, 2000. Typical project implementation schedules for
the main investment component (conversion projects involving cogeneration and
high-efficiency boiler technologies) are shown in Tables 18-1 and 18-2 of this
annex.  To reach the targets for commitment levels for the GEF grant (see para
1 of annex 17) the appraisal schedule for follow-up projects, as presented in
Table 18-3 below, needs to be followed.
Table 18-3: Appraisal Schedule for Follow-up Projects             ]
Number of Individual Projects
INVESTMENT COMPONENTS              End of       End of      End of   TOTAL GEF
First Year   Second Year  Third Year   PROJECT
A.    Coal-to-Gas Conversion Component
- Cogeneration Systems               1           3            2           6
- High-Efficiency Boiler Systems     1           20          17          38
B.    Energy Efficiency Component
- New Residential Units a/       180 - 216    342 - 411    144 -173    666 - 800
Note:  a/    Depending on the energy efficiency and conservation measures considered, the number of
units would vary within the specified ranges of values.
2.    Project Auditing Requirements. The Project Account, the Special Accounts,
and the Statement of Expenditures would be audited at the end of each fiscal year
in accordance with international standards.  Agreement was reached that Bank
Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) would appoint independent external auditors
acceptable to the Bank and present, within six months after the end of each
fiscal year, the audited  Project Account, Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures.
3.    Proiect Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.   Systems and procedures
would be set up  to ensure  effective  supervision  and monitoring  of project
implementation by the Recipient the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry (MoE), the implementing agency BOS, and the Bank.  In
particular, BOS would furnish to MoE and the Bank regularly a series of reports.
Very close attention would be paid to identification and appraisal of follow-up
conversion projects and projects for energy efficiency in buildings, the
procurement and disbursement process, project implementation and the monitoring
of the technical and environmental performance of completed projects. For each
individual project financed from the GEF fund, MoE and BOS would report on
selected key variables and other statistical information that would be monitored



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Typical Implementation Schedule
for
Replacement of Existing Coal-fired Boiler(s) with High-Efficiency Gas-fired Boiler(s)
- PLANNING, ENGINEERING DESIGN AND PROCUREMENT -
This project schedule utilizes direct contracting procedure for the services of a boiler owner representative and limited international bidding
procedures for the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractor. If a single owners representative contract and/or a single EPC
contractor to service multiple boiler projects are preferred, the procurement schedule should follow the Bank's selection procedures for consultants
for the Owners Representative and the international competitive bidding  procedures for the EPC  contractor, as shown in the schedule for the
combined heat and power project.
Task name                                                        Start       End                       1994                                                             . .....9  6     11997
Date    Date            J FMAM J JA S 0N DJ IM A M  9J A, S   DJ11F  IA M JJASONDIIJFMA MJ J AGO 
Project  approval                                                   1-IAAa,94               r                    ;  I   I    I  I  I         I    I    ;    ;   9    9    9    9    9    9    9   9    ;    I   9    9   ;   9    9  I    I   ;    i    9    9    ;   9    9 
Selectand engage boiler owner rapraentatlve                        14-Mar-84   29-Apr-94                         .   . . .                                   . . . . . . . . .                . . . . . . . .I
Bmloeroower preapres termb ofreferemfe and selection procedure    4Mr9          -p-4IIIIIIIIIII                                                                                                                                   
Review and approval of terms of referenceaand procurementI                                           I       II    I            IIII    IIIIIIIIII                         IIIIII9I9IIII9
procedures  by  lBRD                                            3-Apr-94   15-Apr-94                       II I                            I I I I       I I I I 9 I I I I I I I            I     I I I I 9 9
Formnulate and sign contract withboiler ownar representative                                     J99         9I999999II99III                                                                               
Contract becomes effective                                     19-Apr-94   29-Apr-94                                    I     I    1       1 1 1            II IIIII999999I999I
Mobilzation of boiler owner rapreaentstive                        2-May-94  13-May-94              1                                                                                                                                            
Collectionofaembient air quality datm,where monitoring systera9999999999                                                                                 99999999s999                                       
have been established                                           4-Apr-94   1 1-Apr-97                                                                                                               99999
P,.conversioneonvironment,l alnd technical performance                                                         9    9       9        99      9    999        9     9999                                  99         9
monitoring during boiler operation                             15-Oct-94   15-Apr-95                                                                   999999999999                                           
Planning, cheduling. engineering,cost estimlating                 16-May-94    15-Jul-94   I                     .9    999.99                  99.9            99.9            999.999.1
Boiler owre,r  review   end  approval of  planse.9                                            9  9  9 9        9    9  9  9 9  9     9 9     9          9    9  9  9 9  9  9 9  9  9 9  9  9  9 9  9  9  9 9  9  9  9
cost estimates,schedule                                        18-Jul-94   29-Jul-94                 9     9999999              99       99         99999                              99              9
Select and engagEPCeoontmsotortfolowing LIBproeadura               I19-Jul-94    7-Oct-94        i         'II   '    I I I 9 I I I I I I 9 I I I I I i I                                                       I  9 I
IBRD review and clearance for EPCcontractor specificatiore                                                                                 :                                                                 9 9 9       9      9 9 9 9 9 9                                                       
and bidding docuhmients                                        18-Jul~-941   4-Aug-94                                                    .                                       . . . . . .  I         I I I f I    I   I 
issuance  of ivitation to bid                                    5-Aug-949 9                                   9     9 9  9                9 9  9       9  9       9 9  9 9   9  9 9  9  9 9  9  9  9 9 9   9  9 9
Preparation and submission ofbide                                8-Aug-94    6-Sep-9499                                                    99       9            :'         :
Boiler owner evaluates bids and prepare bid evaluation report     G-Sep-94   20-Sep-94 g9    9999                 99999999999999                           99999999                99999            999           9
IBRD review of bWevaluation report and approval of award9                                           999           999    99                9    99999999999999999999999                                          9
recof,m,lrldation1                                            20-Sep-94   29-Sep-94                                                                                                                                            >                                                                                                                                  
Signing of EPC contract and EPC contract                                                                                                                                                                                         0 ~ 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 h   '~
becoes eeftectiw                                              29-Sep-941  7-Ot-94i                                  99      9    9    9    9     9    9    9     9    9    9    9     9    9    9     9    9t                  m
0  000



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Typical Implementation Schedule
for
Replacement of Existing Coal-fired Boiler(s) with High-Efficiency Gas-fired Boiler(s)
- CONSTRUCTION WORK, EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION, AND COMMISSIONING -
Taok name                                                             Start         End                         1994                i1995                                              1998                               11997
________________________________   El~~ate                        Date          J  F  M AM J JA   S0NDIJ  F M AM JJ  A  SO0N  DJ  F  M AM  JJ  A SO0N  DlJ  F M AM J JA  SO
EPC contractormrobilizetion                                              10-Oct-94   21-Oct-94   i   i  i I i i   i i i                   II       IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  I I I I      I I    IIII
EKCcontrector begim work                                                24-Oct-94                                                                                                                 .                                                                                                                 . . . . . .               
Detailed design, pilans, final review of                                                            IIIIl             l    I    l    l I                                                                                                          
sepcifications&e chedule, procurement contractingII                                                              I                             II    I    IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
fo, materise.ls.upplies, servicesaand equipment                     24-Oct-94      3-Feb-95          II    II    I *,                 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                                                            I
fr                                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .  .   .  .  .  .                                I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Contractingfor and delivery of equipment, services. rnaterilsleand                                  I I I  I    I I I I I I I   I                            I I I I I I  I I I I           I I I I I I I I I I I   I I   I
supplies                                                             6-Feb-95    30-Jul-96 5                                                                                                                                                  
Rermovesold equipment. ite modification for new equipment                17-Apr-95     2-Jun-95 6                                                                                                                                                    
Rehabilitation/upgrade of beat distribution system                                                        I       I                                        I        IIIIIIII                IIIIIIIIIIIIII
and buildings ser-ved                                               17-Apr-96   15-Sep-96                                          II   _______                          IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Install equjiprment. connsct to gotIII                                                                            l       I I            IIIIIII l III11 1                                        i l III1 1 1
arst*ss.sacceptance testing                                          5-Jun-95   115-Sep-95                 I                                                          .                                                             . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   
Comrmissioning, training of boiler owners staff, acceptanceI                                              I        I                    IIIIIII               j      IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
completed                                                           18-Sep-95   13-Oct-95                  IIIIII                  I        I:5                                         IIIIIIIIIIIIII
sit,ecleanup, painting &refurbishing, rernoval of temporary                                                    I     III            II    I    IrIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
fac'ilities and construction equipment                               2-Oct-95   24-Nov-96                                 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
One Vearof post-conversi- environmental and technical                                                 II       I      II         III    II               IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
performsnce monitorinlglduring boiler operation)                    16-Oct-95   15-Apr-96I                       l       l                                    I                     I IIIIIIIIIIIIII
Prepar andissue project pre- andpost-conversion                                                     IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                                                                                                       
environmnental and technical performance                                                             I    II                            II    I           IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
monitoring report                                                      16-Apr-96   16-Oct-986                                                                                                                                         
Prepameproject completion report                                         16-Apr-96   16-Oct-986                                                                                                   * ~                                   
tbX
Note 1.    Significant reduct ions in project schedule and improvements in contractor efficiency and reduction in cost of services shoUld be possible if arrangements could be made for having a1-
single owners represenfative and a single EPC contractor for multiple sequenced projects.                                                                                                                             0   cc  c
Note 2:    Owner representative should give particular attention to the need for adequate lime for delivery of long lead time equipment.                                                                                           r
Note 3:    Policy in Poland does not perrnh work other than emergency maintenance on heating boilers or distribution system during the healing season, which is October 15   April 15. Dates
could be shifted as long as the implementation schedule complies with this policy and with the Bank's requirements for international procurement procediures.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Typical Implementation Schedule
for
Replacement of Existing Coal-fired Boiler(s) with Gas-fired Combined Heat and Power System
- PLANNING, ENGINEERING DESIGN AND PROCUREMENT -
This project schedule utilizes sequential contracting for the services of a boiler owner representative and for the engineering, procurement and
construction (EPC) contractor, following competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Procurement of Goods,
Works and Services.
Task name                                                Start       End                     1994                            1995                           1996                           1997
Date   Date               F M A M J J A   N DJ FMA MJ JA S0N D.J FMA MJ JA SO0ND MA-iJ
Project approval                                           i-M~ar-94                                                                                     I I I I I I I I I         I I     I I
Seletotnd engage bog&edowner ropreaentativor              14-Mar-94   15-Jul-94                                                          aaI                  £aaa
Prepare and issue letter of invitation to bid           14-Mar-94  25-Mar.94                                         IIIIIIIII            IIIIIIIIIIII4                       IIIIII
Preparation and submiseion of proposals                 28-Mar-94  13-May-94
Boiler owrmr evaluates  proposals  and                                           4*  *'l *44    4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 I 4 4 4 I             44      4 4 4 4 4 4 4     4 4 4 4 4 4       I 4 4
prepares bid evaluation and report                    16-May-94    3-Jun-94                                        4     444444444I4444                         44444444444
lBRD review ofavaluatton report and approval of                                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                   I I I I I I I I I I 
award recommendation                                    6-Jun-94   17-Jun-94                             4       4                       4    4444444444444444444
Announmeaward, formulation & sining of contract         20-Jun-94   15-Jul-94   44           ~4               4    4    4    4    44        4    ~    ~ ~      1 4 1 4 4 1
Contract becomes effective                                                    44,44I                                                                                                                                      
Mobilization of boiler ownatrrepresentative                18-Jul-S4   29-Jul-94S   44                         I      II444II44          II         I I4I4I4I4. I4I4I4I4I4I4I4I4I4 .1
Collection of ambient air quality data, where monitoring                                                                                              I I4 44I 4I 4I 44I44I I I I I I I I    4
Prcnvemsion environrnental and technical Performance                                                                                                                                      
mnonitoring during boiler operation                    15-Oct-94   15-Apr-954                                                                 44444                                  4
Planning. scheduling engineering, costeastimsting                                 4444444~                                                                                                                                    
and preparing specifications byownrwtrepresentative    25-Jul-94  23-Serp-9444                        444444444444444444                                44444444444444
Boiler own,erreview and approval of project plans,444444444444444444444                                                                               
cost estimates, specifications, etc...                 26-Sep-94  30-Sep-94              4444                                                                                                                              
Select and.engage EPC oontmaotor fobowing lCl ptoodure      1-Oct-S4  27-Feb-95r4                                              4    4    4    4    4    44      4    4    4    4    4    4
Prepare specifications for EPC contract                   1-OGt-94  21-Oct-94                                   4    444        444444444444444444444444
I9RD review and clearanacefor EPC contractor                                            I    I I I I I I I I I                                                                                                                
specifications and bidding documents                   24-Oct-94  1 1-Nov-94                         F1                                                                             it             444 444      
Issue invitation to bid                                 14-Nov-94  18-Nov-94   44444444                  4 ~ 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4                                                                               
Preparation and submission of bids                      21-Nov-94   13-Jan-95           I I I I  . I~ I                         I I I I 4I I I I4    I I I4 I I I I I I4 44  I I I4 I
Bid opening                                              18-Jan-95                      I     I   I   I   I   I   I             I                 I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I 4  I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I 4   d ~A    >
Boiler ownrwrevaluatesabidsend prapefeasbid                                                               o.I                                                                                             9  o-'.1
evsluationraport                        ~~~~~~~17-Jsn-95    3-Feb-954444                     4     44    444444444    4444444444444444 
IBRD review bid evaluation report and                                                                                                                                                                        M                                                    4444444444I44C  X
approval of award recommsndation                        6-Fab-96   17-Feb-951* i i a 4 4 4                            4 4 4             4 44 4 444444        444 
Signing contract and EPCcontract becomneseffective         20-Feb-95  27-Feb-9 r,~4                                          4    4    4 ~       4    4    44      4    4    4    4    4      iH 
444444444444   4~~~**  4444444   4444444444   4444444   4444~ ~~N



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Typical Implementation Schedule
for
Replacement of Existing Coal-fired Boiler(s) with Gas-fired Combined Heat and Power System
- CONSTRUCTION WORK, EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION, AND COMMISSIONING -
Task name                                                  Start        End                      1994                             1996                            1 996              1J:I - V997
Date        Date        J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N DIJ F Mt A Nt J J A S 0 N DIJ F M A M' J J
EPC conatractorrmobiizstion                                 27-Feb-95  10-Msr-95                                                                                                                           
EPC contractor begimr work                                   10-Mar-96                                                       aaIaaa                                                                          
Detailed  design, pleans, final review  of                                                       a a                        a    a     a i        a I  I a i   a a a a a a a a a a a a a a           a
specification & schedule,.procuremnent.and delivery                               aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa..a...                                                                                                        
So  fmateras,ah.upplisus ervicaeandsequiprnent             11I-Mar-96  31-Aug-95                                                                                                                                           
oile awe  mnitoring of conetruction contract                16-Mar-96  22-Dec-95                                                                                                                                 
Flrnemoold equipment, site modificationfor nowequjipmaent    17-Apr-95    2-Jun-95   a a    I a a a a    I aI                          a a i aaaaa                                                   
8.1h.bilitation/upgracle  of hreat distribution  system                                  a a  a  a a a        a a a    a a                        a a  a a   a    a a a   a  a a  a a a a    a a   a a
and buildings served                                     16-Mar-95   13-Oct-95                                                                                                                                       
lnstailClP plrantequipment,commissioning,conanect to gasaaaaa    aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
and electricty systems, acceptance testing,                                       aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa                                 a      a                                                                        
training ownier 0&M staff                                 6-Jun-95  22-Dcc-S5   a a  a i a a a a a a a a                                                                                                             
Site cleanup, painting & refurbishing, removal of temporary                           aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa                                    a                                                                             
facilities and construction equipment                     2-Oct-95  24-Nov-95   a                                                               a a                                                                         
One   year of past-Goaversian envivenmentesand  tec hanicala a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a                                                    a a a a a a a a a
performance monitoring tdurirg baiter operation)         16-Oct-95   165-Apr-96   a.                                                                                     a a. a a a a a a a a
Prepare and issuecproject pre-  and  post-conversiona a a a a a a a a a a                                           a a a a a a a a a       a a a a a a a a a a a         a a a a a a a a a a a
environmene tal  anadtechnical performancea                                          a a  a  a a  a  a  a a a   a  a a  a    a  a  a a  a  i  a a  a  a  a a  a  a a  a  a  a a  a  a  a a  a  a a
monitoring  report                                       16-Apr-96   16-Oct-96    a  a a  a  a a  a  a a  a  a  a  a a a   a a  a  a  a a  a  a a  a  a  aa                   a a   a  a a  a  a  a
Prepare project comnpletion report                           16-Apr-96   16-Oct-96   aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa                                                  a                                          
(D x
Note 1:   Significant reductions in project schedule and Improvements in contractor efficiency and reduction in cost of services should be possible if arrangements could be made for having a                   N)     l-
single owners representative and a single EPC contractor for multiple sequenced projects.                                                                                                                    o
Note 2:   Owner representative should give particutar attention lo the need for adequate time for delivery of tong lead time e-quipment.
Nt3:   Policy in Poland does not permit work other than emergency maintenance on healing boilers or distribution system during the heating season, which is October 15 . April 15. Dates
could be shiftedl as long as the implementation schedule complies with this policy and with the Bank's requirements for international procurement procedlures.



Annex 18
Table 18-3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Supervision Action Plan
STAFF WEEKS
IBRD                    STAFFING                                  Of which
FISCAL YEAR               REQUIREMENT                       TOTAL      Field
Task Manager                                   5         3
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 5         3
1995          Energy Efficiency Specialist                    4         3
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Procurement Specialist                         2         1
Sub-total - FY95                              19        11
Number of Supervision Mission       3
Number of weeks per mission         1
Task Manager                                   5         3
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 5         3
1996           Energy Efficiency Specialist                   4         3
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Procurement Specialist                         2         1
Sub-total - FY96                              19        11
Number of Supervision Mission       3
Number of weeks per mission         1
Task Manager                                   5         3
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 5         3
1997          Energy Efficiency Specialist                    4         3
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Procurement Specialist                         2         1
Sub-total - FY97                              19        11
Number of Supervision Mission       3
Number of weeks per mission         1
Task Manager                                   3         1
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 3         1
1998           Energy Efficiency Specialist                   2         1
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Procurement Specialist                         1
Sub-total - FY98                              12         4
Number of Supervision Mission       3
Number of weeks per mission         1
Task Manager                                   3          1
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 2         1
1999          Energy Efficiency Specialist                    2         1
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Procurement Specialist                         1
Sub-total - FY99                              11         4
Number of Supervision Mission       2
Number of weeks per mission         1
Task Manager                                   3         1
Cogeneration/Boiler Specialist                 2         1
2000           Energy Efficiency Specialist                   2         1
Environmental Specialist                       3         1
Sub-total - FY2000                            10         4
Number of Supervision Mission       2
Number of weeks per mission         1
TOTAL                                         90        45



Annex 19
Page 1 of 9
POLAND - GEF COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
PART A. MARGINAL COST ANAL YSIS - DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGY
Determination of the GEF Contribution
1.    The GEF project aims at providing incentives to boiler owners to convert
from coal-firing to gas-firing. It would provide grant funding equivalent to the
incremental life-cycle costs of converting existing coal-fired boilers to gas-
firing (the GEF project case) over the alternative option of continuing to
operate appropriately rehabilitated or new coal-fired plants (the reference
case). For this purpose, the internal rate of return (IRR) is used as a measure
of the boiler owner's acceptance of the GEF conversion proposal.   The GEF
contribution is determined using an incremental cash-flow analysis over the
project's economic lifetime. It represents the capital subsidy required to bring
the rate of return on the boiler conversion up to the boiler owner's required
IRR.
Incremental Analysis
2.    Selection of the Reference Project.   The boiler conversion/technology
modifications to be financed under this project would not occur under present
economic circumstances and national/local incentive structure. From the boiler
owner's point of view, such modification would not be financially attractive
without concessional funding. Determination of the GEF capital subsidy raises
the issue of selecting a reference case. This case should correspond to what the
boiler owner should do without the GEF capital subsidy and without taking into
account global consideration  in  the  project evaluation.   The  incremental
analysis, including the selection of the reference case, should be carried out
on the basis of the regulation and economic conditions prevailing in Poland at
the time the analysis is carried out. These factors will evolve over time. 1/
3.    The main criterion to select the reference case was the age of the boilers.
Given the low level of environmental levies and the present shortage of local
funding, the incentive for the boiler owner is to keep existing old boiler units
in operation, at increasingly higher operating and maintenance costs. Once the
age of the existing boiler unit is such that its continued operation is no longer
financially justified, the preferred investment alternative is to replace the
existing boilers with new coal-fired boiler. This decision is more justified
because the present levels of energy prices and environmental fees do not yet
For example, tightening and enforcement of the environmental standards for local air pollution from low-
level emission sources will make some privately non-profitable boiler conversions profitable.



Annex 19
Page 2 of 9
provide incentives  for fuel switching.   For the purposes of the financial
analysis, it was assumed that the age limit at which replacement with a new coal-
fired unit would be warranted is 25 years.
4.    The energy efficiency and conservation measures were assumed to apply to
both the GEF project and reference cases, as follows. The boiler owners would
replace old boilers after 25 years in service with new coal-fired boilers, and
would re-engineer  the installation to take advantage of privately energy-
efficient improvements.   The investment costs for these improvements can be
financially justified by:  (a) the reduction in the investment cost for new
boilers, since the capacity of the replaced boiler is downsized; and (b) the
reduction in annual fuel and maintenance costs.  At Jana Street, the payback
period for these improvements would be four years, equivalent to a rate of return
of 23 percent; at the Polytechnic University, the payback period would be three
years, equivalent to a rate of return of 34 percent. Thus, the impact of these
conservation measures on global warming would not appear directly in the
incremental analysis. However, it would appear in the overall benefits of the
GEF project compared with existing boiler facilities.
5.    Proiect Incremental Cash Flow.  Incremental Operating Cash Flows.  Since
the GEF project case and the reference case have the same benefits over the
planning period considered -- as they both deliver the same amount of useful
energy for heating -- operating revenues would be equal in both cases. Further,
from the boiler owner's point of view, the GEF project case with the GEF capital
subsidy and the reference case should produce the same income flows and not bear
any tax consequences. On this basis, the incremental analysis was carried out
on a pre-tax basis. Thus, the incremental operating cash flows represent the
savings in annual operating costs (see para. 7 below). The planning period is
assumed to be 17 years (the economic lifetime of the boiler), although the
boilers could be technically operated for a longer period, but at increasingly
higher operating costs.
6.    Incremental Capital Investment Costs.  The incremental capital investment
costs are calculated by taking the difference between the present values of
annual capital investment costs in both the GEF project and reference cases,
using the boiler owner's required IRR as the discount rate (see para. 8 below).
7.    Annual Operating Costs.   The annual operating costs  consist of the
following: fuel; maintenance (services and spare parts); labor; and environmental
fees.   In the case of cogeneration technology, electricity generation is an
additional benefit to the generation of heat. This benefit would be evaluated
by using an average price between the selling and purchasing prices for
electricity. Revenues from electricity generation would be deducted from the GEF
project annual operating costs.
8.    Investment Costs. The investment costs include five major components:  (a)
the new heat facilities; (b) supplementary end-user efficiency and conservation
measures in existing buildings supplied by the boilers; (c) connection to the gas
and electricity networks; (d) provisions for demolition and safe removal of
existing facilities; and (e) engineering and project management services



Annex 19
Page 3 of 9
(engineering consultants acting as boiler owner representatives). All investment
costs include a physical contingency of 10 percent and a price contingency of 2.5
percent compounded annually.
9.    Project Implementation.  The following project implementation period was
also taken into account in the analysis: (a) one year for the condensing boiler
technology; and (b) two years for the cogeneration unit, with 25 percent of the
work occurring in the first year and 75 percent in the second year. The works
for the reference case were assumed to take less than a year.
10.   Taxes.   Taxes on fuels, labor and equipment have been added.  The heat
produced in the cogeneration facility at the Polytechnic University would be
consumed by the University or sold to the Senior Citizen Home at cost. In the
latter case, no tax on profits would be paid. Grant-financed investments are
exempt from custom duties and import taxes.
11.   Determination of the Grant.  The GEF capital subsidy is equal to the net
present value of the incremental cash flows discounted at the boiler owner's
required IRR.
PART B. INPUT DA TA AND ASSUMPTIONS
Worksheet Model for Economic and Financial Analysis
12.   The amount of GEF grant-financing and the reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2)
emissions was determined using a user-friendly, menu-driven worksheet model. The
Bank prepared this model for analyzing the economic and financial viability of
conversion projects.   The two pilot projects  in Krakow provided the basic
framework of analysis. The model covers the economic and financial analysis,
including cash flow projection, projected rates of return and determination of
the GEF contribution and of the environmental benefits (local and global). The
Bank provided an electronic copy of this model, with its user manual, to the
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE) and
the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS). Given the continuous changes in energy
prices and other operating costs, regular updates of this model would be
required. MoE and BOS have assigned qualified staff to perform GEF incremental
analysis using this model. The methodology underlying this model was described
in Part A of this annex. The assumptions are presented below.
Operating Costs
13.   Fuels.   Coal.  The calorific values and prices of coal and coke vary with
the site and season of the year. In Krakow, low-sulfur coal or coke are used.
At Jana Street, coke is used (calorific value of 30 Gigajoule per ton (GJ/ton),
with a sulfur content of 0.4 percent and ash content of 10 percent) and its
average price is US$72/ton. The boilers at Warszawska Street are fuelled with
coal (calorific value of 24.3 GJ/ton, with a sulfur content of 0.8 percent and
ash content of 10 percent), priced at US$60/ton.



Annex 19
Page 4 of 9
14.   Gas.  The calorific value of the gas used is 34,300 kilojoule per normal
cubic meter (kJ/Nm3).  Gas is priced on the basis of a two-part tariff system:
a quarterly fixed charge based on capacity demand and a variable charge based on
actual consumption. Given the estimated capacity and volume of gas required at
the new facilities, the average prices of gas would be about US¢17.1 per Nm3 at
Jana Street and USC14.6 per Nm3 at Warszawska Street.  An additional 7 percent
value-added tax (VAT) would apply to the coal and gas prices.
15.   Light Fuel Oil (LFO).  LFO would be used as a back-up fuel and for peak
shaving of gas demand. Its calorific value is 41 GJ/ton. The price of LFO with
1 percent sulfur content is US$403/ton, inclusive of a 30 percent turnover tax.
16.   Electricity.  The Ministry of Finance sets the tariffs for electricity.
The Polytechnic Institute is charged US$78 per Megawatthour (MWh) for its own
consumption, with no charge for capacity.   The Ministry of Industry sets the
price distribution companies pay to purchase of power from independent producers.
Currently this price is US$28.2/MWh.   It is estimated that one-third of the
electricity produced in the new cogeneration unit would be used at the
Polytechnic University, and the remaining two-thirds would be sold to the
electrical grid.   Therefore,  the electricity cogenerated at the Polytechnic
University can be valued at US$45/MWh.
17.   Labor.  The data on salaries were provided by boiler owners.  They included
taxes of 20 percent and social charges of 45 percent.   The average salaries
excluding taxes are US$900/man-year at Warszawska Street and US$1,650/man-year
at Jana Street.   Boiler conversion would significantly reduce the manpower
requirements from the present levels of 23 man-years at Warszawska Street and 9
man-years at Jana Street to expected levels of 5 and 1 man-years, respectively.
18.   Maintenance.  Annual maintenance costs include spare parts and services.
These were evaluated as a percent of investment costs: (a) 6 percent for coal-
fired boilers; (b) 3 percent for gas-fired boilers; and (c) 3 percent for other
capital investments.   For the cogeneration units,  the maintenance cost is
estimated at US$12/MWh-electric.   The taxes on maintenance consist of a 22
percent VAT on equipment (for spare parts).
19.   Environmental Fees.   The fees applicable in Poland for this type of
installation are:  (a) US$73/ton for sulfur dioxide (SO2); (b) US$36/ton for
particulates; and (iii) US$73/ton for nitrogen oxides (NOx). There is also a
small fee of USC6.0 per ton for C02 .
20.   SO, and Particulates Emissions.  For S02 emissions, it is estimated that
20 percent of the sulfur remains in the slag. Dust emissions are calculated from
the ash content of the coal, assuming that 20 percent of the ash is emitted and
taking into account the efficiency of existing dust-removal devices.   For
example, the chimneys at Warszawska Street are equipped with filters that have
a 60 percent efficiency.
21.   NOx Emission.  Standard NOx emissions are expressed as a function of the
heat produced, using the following emission factors for various heat supply



Annex 19
Page 5 of 9
technologies: (a) 42 kg/100 MWh for coal boilers; (b) 9 kg/100 MWh for gas
boilers; and (c) 55 kg/100 MWh for gas turbines.
22.   Emissions from Power Plants.  These were estimated from a database on power
plants in Poland. The average efficiency of power generation in the national
power system (including combined heat and power plants) is 34 percent. Average
emissions are expressed as a function of the electricity produced, using the
following emission factors: (a) 13 kg/MWh for SO2; (b) 4.8 kg/MWh for fly ash;
(c) 1.1 kg/MWh for NOx; and (d) 974 kg/MWh for CO2.
23.   Greenhouse Gas Emissions.  To assess CO2 emissions from the fuel used, the
following standard emission factors were used: (a) 92 kg/GJ for coal; (b) 53
kg/GJ for gas; and (c) 77 kg/GJ for LFO.  Emissions of methane from pipeline
leakage was not considered in the analysis. Methane gas has a global warming
potential value of 21 relative to C02, on a mass basis and over a 100-year time
horizon (see para. 31 below).
24.   Inflation and Price Escalation.  The projected cash flows are in nominal
terms,  using a 2.5 percent annual inflation rate.   Since a boiler owner's
decision to convert would be made on the basis of the present incentive structure
and current conditions in Poland, only prices prevailing at the time the analysis
is made were used.   No real price  increase  for operating costs has been
considered in the analysis.
PART C - DETERMINA TION OF THE GEF GRANT
25.   The marginal costs analyses for the two pilot projects in Krakow are
presented in Tables 19-1 and 19-2 of this annex. Both incremental analyses show
that the conversion to gas using higher efficiency technology is not financially
viable. The IRRs in both cases are negative. To achieve a 25 percent IRR, GEF
should grant finance about 34 percent (or US$130,000) and 60% (or US$2.94
million) of the individual project costs at Jana Street (US$385,000) and
Warszawska Street (US$4.86 million), respectively.
PART D. PROJECT BENEFITS
Reduction in Global Warming
26.   The main global environmental benefit of this project is a reduction in CO2
emissions as a result of the switch from coal to gas. The annual reductions have
been estimated based on operational data for both the GEF and conventional
options. Secondary effects on global warming have been identified but were not
included in the analysis.
27.   Reduction in CO, Emissions.   For both the reference and the GEF project
cases, C02 emissions were estimated based on: (a) annual heat demand (which is
the same for the GEF project and reference cases); (b) efficiency of heat supply



Annex 19
Page 6 of 9
facilities (coal-fired boilers, gas-fired condensing boilers or cogeneration
units); (c) unit emission factors for gas, LFO and coal; and (d) share of heat
produced by the cogeneration unit and the peak boilers. Additional CO2 emission
credits were attributed to the cogeneration units, resulting from the
displacement of the electricity now generated from coal in the national power
system at 34 percent efficiency.
28.   Compared with the reference case (new coal-fired boilers), CO2 emissions
could be reduced by 6,168 tons per year (or about 57 percent) at Warszawska
Street and by 494 tons per year at Jana Street (or 51 percent). Compared with
the old boiler facilities, these reductions are larger and amount to 8,843 tons
per year at Warszawska Street (or 66 percent) and 1,210 tons per year at Jana
Street (or 71 percent).
29.   Secondary Effects on Global Warming.   The secondary effects on global
warming, as discussed below, would include: (a) a reduction in emissions of NOx,
carbon monoxide (CO) and non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) resulting
from incomplete combustion of coal pyrolysis products in the existing inefficient
coal-fired boilers; (b) an increase in methane emissions as a result of leakage
from gas pipelines; (c) a decrease in the methane emissions associated with coal-
mining; and (d) effects on other greenhouse gas emissions associated with
equipment construction, coal distribution, etc. , which are likely to be
negligible.
30.   Reduction in NOx.  CO and NMVOC.   NOx,  CO and NMVOC are themselves
insignificant as greenhouse gases because of their short atmospheric lifetimes,
but through their chemical reactions with each other and with other substances
in the atmosphere, they are precursors to ozone formation in the troposphere
(atmosphere region below the stratosphere). Tropospheric ozone is recognized as
a significant greenhouse gas and it is known to have a significant lifetime in
the troposphere. However, ozone itself is chemically reactive and it is only a
stage in a continuing chain of complex chemical reactions in the troposphere
which is still being studied. Further, the non-uniform distribution of these
gases in the troposphere complicates the analysis of their secondary effects.
For all these reasons, the Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
notes that it may be inappropriate to assign secondary global warming potential
values to these ozone precursor gases; and for now, according to the 1992 IPCC
latest findings that are published 2/, IPCC believes that not enough is known
regarding the long term effects of tropospheric ozone to assign even a trend
(increasing or decreasing) to the secondary global warming potential of ozone
precursors. CO would oxidize to CO2 but the impact of the modest quantity of CO
emissions would be very small.
2/    Sources:    (a)   "1992 IPCC Supplement - Scientific Assessment of Climate Change," Submission
of Working Group #1, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, February
1992
(b)   "Climate Change 1992 - The Supplementary Report to the IPCC Scientific
Assessment," by J.T. Houghton, B.A. Callander and S.K. Varney, 1992



Annex 19
Page 7 of 9
31.   Increase in Methane Emissions from Pipeline Leakages.  The evaluation of
methane emissions from pipeline leakages would require data on the origin and
composition  of  the  gas,  the  leakage  rates  in  the  gas  transmission  and
distribution networks and the gas pressure reduction stations, and unaccounted
losses from the imprecision of the meters. Since these data were not available,
a break-even analysis was carried out. Based on a combined direct and indirect
global warming potential value of 21 (IPCC, 1990) for a pulsed emission of
methane evaluated over a 100-year time horizon relative to the emission of the
same weight of CO2, the equivalent quantity of methane leakage in the gas systems
that would offset the calculated 10,050 metric tons per year of CO2 reduced by
the two pilot projects in Krakow would approximate 670,000 Nm3 per year. The
break-even leakage quantity would be about: (a) 27 percent of the annual
estimated consumption of methane for the two pilot projects after conversion,
which is about 2,495,000 Nm3 per year without leakage; or (b) 21 percent of the
combined methane consumption and hypothetical break-even leakage quantity of
3,165,000 Nm3. These calculations are based on pure methane. Natural gas is not
pure methane and the actual leakage and consumption of methane would be modestly
higher, depending on the specific composition of the natural gas supplied.
32.   Reduction in Methane Emissions from Coal Mining.  The reduction in methane
emissions from coal-mining operations could bring significant additional global
benefits but were not estimated because of a lack of data and clear
methodology.3/
Local Environmental Benefit
33.   In addition to the global benefit of CO2 emission reductions, this project
would result in an improvement in the quality of air locally by decreasing the
emissions of pollutants such as dust, SO2 and NOx. The pilot projects in Krakow
would eliminate the use of about 4,238 tons of coal or coke per year. This would
reduce the annual emissions of S02, NOx, and particulates in the Krakow region
by about 46 tons, 3.7 tons, and 52 tons, respectively. On a national basis, the
displacement of electricity now produced in coal-fired power plants by the
cogeneration unit at Polytechnic University would further reduce emissions of
S02,  NOx,  and  particulates  by  about  72  tons,  5.8  tons  and  26.4  tons,
respectively.
3/    Methane releases from underground mining operations in the U.S. range from as low as about 6 to as high
as about 70 m3 per ton of coal mined (see source below). If similar methane emissions from underground
coal mining operations prevailed in Poland, this would translate into a reduction of methane emissions from
coal mining from about 25,000 m3 per year to possibly as much as 296,000 m3 per year for the pilot
projects in Krakow.
Source: 'Methodologies for Greenhouse Gas Emissions,' US Environmental Protection Agency, November
1992.



Annex 19
Page 8 of 9
Cost-effectiveness of the GEF Funding
34.   The cost-effectiveness of an individual GEF project can be determined by
calculating the incremental cost on an annualized per ton basis, using a 12
percent annuity rate.   It would represent from a national point of view the
appropriate  compensation  for  the  reduction  of  C02 emissions.    The  cost-
effectiveness is about US$37/ton of CO2 reduced for condensing boilers at Jana
Street and US$67/ton of C02 reduced for cogeneration schemes at Warszawska
Street.   In Norway,  the marginal cost of stabilizing the emission level of
greenhouse gases by the year 2000 at their 1989 level through domestically
implemented measures is estimated at about US$180 per ton of CO2.   In some
Western European countries, the tax on CO2 is in the range of US$25-60 per ton
of C02 -/
Sensitivity Analysis
35.   The cost-effectiveness of the GEF funding depends on both the conversion
technology and financial parameters. A sensitivity analysis was carried out on
energy prices, labor costs and environmental fees. Energy prices were increased
to economic levels: US$10.0 per MWh for electricity; US$18-20 per Nm3 for gas;
and US$12.0 per GJ for heat.   Labor costs were increased in real terms at 5
percent per year. Environmental fees were raised to levels that truly reflect
the costs of the environmental damage resulting from emissions from low-level
stacks.  These fees were estimated at: US$325 per ton for SO2; US$2,160 per ton
of dust; and US$400 per ton of NOx.   Table 19-3 of this annex presents the
results of the analysis. A summary of the key results follows.
36.   For the condensing boiler technology at Jana Street, the introduction of
higher environmental fees alone could reduce the GEF grant from 34 percent to 19
percent of the GEF project cost. A 5 percent yearly increase in labor cost would
alone provide the financial incentives to the boiler owner to convert to gas
(although the incremental IRR is increased to 17 percent, still below the
required 25 percent target).  (A 10 percent yearly increase in labor cost would
eliminate the need for GEF financing.) If the required IRR were reduced to 22
percent, the combined increases in gas prices, environmental fees and labor costs
would make the conversion to high-efficiency technology financially attractive
without concessional funding.
37.   For the cogeneration technology, the increase in electricity prices would
result in additional revenues from the sales of electricity. Together with the
increase in the price of gas, the net effect is a reduction in the GEF grant from
60 percent to 30 percent of the GEF project cost, bringing the cost-effectiveness
of the GEF grant from US$67 to US$40 per ton of C02 reduced.   To make the
cogeneration technology self-sustainable without GEF concessional funding, the
required IRR should be reduced from 25 percent to 13 percent.
4/    Source: "A Comparison of Carbon Taxes in Selected OECD Countries," OECD Environment Monograph
78/1993.



Annex 19
Page 9 of 9
PART E - COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUND
38.   A marginal cost analysis was carried using estimated economic levels for
electricity and heat prices and a 50-year service life for a building. Detailed
calculation of the benefits and cost-effectiveness of the EE Fund is presented
in Table 19-4 of this annex. Depending on the energy efficiency and conservation
measures considered, the reduction in C02 emissions would range from 212 to 645
tons per year, representing 28% to 40% reduction compared with baseline
conditions.   The incremental costs on an annualized per ton basis at a 12%
annuity rate are in the range US$187-225 per ton of C02 reduced. The energy-
related incremental investments have an average payback period of 9 years and an
IRR of 11 percent.



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Marginal Costs Analysis
At Facility One - Jana Street
YEAR                    0       1      2       3 |    4 |   5 |   6 |   7 |   8 |   9      10     11 |  12 |  13 |  14 |  15 |  16 |  17
REFERENCE CASE - REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING BOILERS AFTER 25 YEARS OF SERVICE WITH NEW COAL-FIRED BOILERS
Investment
- Annual                        214.7                                                                         103.3  78.4                               50.5
- Present Value @ 25%°          230.1
Operating Expenses
Coal/Coke                        44.2    27.9  28.6   29.4   30.1  30.8  31.6  32.4  33.2  34.1  34.9  35.8  36.7  37.6  38 5   39.5  40.5  41.5
O&M                              48.8    24.4  25.0   25.6   26.3  26.9  27.6  28.3  29.0  29.7  30.5  31.2  32.0  32.8  33.6  34.5  35.3  36.2
Labor                            11.7    19.8  20.3   20.8   21.3  21.8  22.4  22.9  23.5  24.1  24.7  25.3  26.0  26.6  27.3  28.0  28.7  29.4
Environmental Fees                0.8     0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7
Total - Operating Expenses     105.5    72.6  74.4   76.3   78.2  80.0  82.1  84.1  86.2  88.4   90.7  92.9  95.3  97.6  100.0  102.6  105.2  107.8
GEF PROJECT CASE - CONVERSION OF EXISTING COAL-FIRED BOILERS TO GAS-FIRED CONDENSING BOILERS
Investment
- Annual                        385.4
- Present Value @ 25%           385.4
Operating Expenses
Gas                              44.2    51.1  52.4   53.7   55.0  56.4  57.8  59.3  60.7  62.3  63.8  65.4  67.1  68.7  70.4  72.2  74.0  75.9
O&M                              48.8    13.1  13.5   13.8   14.2  14.5  14.9  15.2  15.6  16.0  16.4  16.8  17.2  17.7  18.1  18.6  19.0  19.5
Labor                            11.7     2.2   2.3    2.3    2.4   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0   3.0   3.1   3.2   3.3
Environmental Fees                0.8     0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    00    0 .0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total -Operating Expenses      105.5    88.4  68.2   69.8   71.6   73         .           78.9  81.0  82.9  85.0  87.2  89.4  91.5  93.9  96.2  98.7
INCREMENTAL ANALYSIS
Present Value of
Incremental Investment            (155.3)
Operating Savings                     0.0     6.2   6.2    6.5    6.6   6.7   e.9   7.1   7.3   7.4   7.8   7.9   8.1   8.2   8.5   8.7   9.0   9.1
Incremental Cash Flow              (155.3)    6.2   6.2    6.5    6.6   6.7   6.9   7.1   7.3   7.4   7.8   7.9   8.1   8.2   8.5   8.7   9.0   9.1
Intemal Rate of Retum                -2%
PAOJECT BENEFITS
GEF CONTRIBUrION                              |MARt3ilNAL COSTS OF NEr C02 REDUCTION
Boiler Owner's Cost of Capital (or Required IRR)           25.0%         C02 Emission Reduction                                  494 tons per year
Capital Subsidy Required to Achieve 256 IRR (GEF Grant)    129.0        Incremental Costs
GEF Grant as Percent ot GEF Project Cost                    34%           on an annualized per ton basis, using 12% annuity rate  $37 per of ton of C02 reduction
I(D
hD1\



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Marginal Costs Analysis
At Facility Two - Warszawska Street
YEAR                    0       1      2       3 1    4 1    5 1    6 1    7 1    8 1    9 1  10 I  11     12 1  13 1  14 1  15 1  16 1  17
REFERENCE CASE - REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING BOILERS AFTER 25 YEARS OF SERVICE WITH NEW COAL-FIRED BOILERS
Investment
- Annual                        506.0                1286.9                                92.2  359.4                                                 340.1
- Present Value @ 25%         1,242.7
Operating Expenses
Coal/Coke                       217.5   159.8  163.8  167.9  172.1  176.4  180.8  185.3  189.9  194.7  199.5  204.5  209.6  214.9  220.3  225.8  231.4  237.2
O&M                             166.5   138.8  142.3  145.8  149.5  153.2  157.0  161.0  165.0  169.1  173.3  177.7  182.1  186.7  191.3  196.1  201.0  206.1
Labor                            29.3    49.5  50.7   52.0   53.3  54.6  56.0  57.4  58.8  60.3  61.8  63.3  64.9  66.5  68.2  69.9  71.6  73.4
Environmental Fees                5.3     3.5   3.6    3.7    3.8   3.8   3.9   4.0   4.1   4.2   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.7   4.8   4.9   5.0   5.2
Total - Operating Expenses     418.6   351.6  360.4  389.4  378.7  388.0  397.7  407.7  417.8  428.3  439.0  450.0  461.2  472.8  484.6  496.7  509.0  521.9
GEF PROJECT CASE - CONVERSION OF EXISTING BOILERS TO GAS-FIRED HEAT SUPPLY SYSTEM
USING BASELOAD COGENERATION UNIT AND PEAKING HEAT-ONLY-BOILERS
Investment
- Annual                      1,215.5  3,737.7
- Present Value @ 25%         4,212.9
Incremental Revenues
Sales of Cogenerated Electricity               261.2  267.7  274.4  281.3  288.3  295.5  302.9  310.5  318.2  328.2  334.4  342.7  351.3  360.1  369.1  378.3
Operating Expenses
Gas                             217.5   243.7  439.7  450.7  461.9  473.5  485.3  497.4  509.9  522.6  535.7  549.1  562.8  576.9  591.3  606.1  621.2  636.8
O&M                             166.5   208.2  127.7  130.9  134.1  137.5  140.9  144.4  148.1  151.8  155.6  159.4  163.4  167.5  171.7  176.0  180.4  184.9
Labor                            29.3    49.5  11.3   11.5   11.8  12.1  12.4  12.7  13.1  13.4  13.7  14.1  14.4  14.8  15.2  15.5  15.9  16.3
Environmental Fees                5.3     5.4   0.6    0.6    0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9
Total -Operating Expenses      418.6   506.8  579.3  593.7  608.5 623.8  639.3  655.2 671.8 688.5  705.8  723.4  741.4  760.0  779.0  798.5  818.4  838.9
INCREMENTAL ANALYSIS
Present Value of
Incremental Investment          (2,963.0)
Operating Savings                     0.0  (155.2)  42.3   43.4   44.6  45.5  46.7  48.0  48.9  50.3  51.4  52.8  54.2  55.5  569.  58.3  59.7  61.3
Incremental Cash Flow            (2,963.0)  (155.2)  42.3   43.4   44.6  45.5  46.7  48.0  48.9  50.3  51.4  52.8  54.2  55.5  569.  58.3  59.7  61.3
Internal Rate of Return             -11%
PROJECT BENEFITS
GEF CONTRIBUTION                              |                   MARGINAL COSTS OF NET C02 REDUCTION
I  CID
Boiler Owner's Cost of Capital (or Required IRR)           24.7%         C02 Emission Reduction                                 6168 tons per year                              (D |X
Capital Subsidy Required to Achieve 25% IRR (GEF Grant)  2,941.2        Incremental Costs                                                                                       -n--
GEF Grant as Percent of GEF Project Cost                    60%           on an annualized per ton basis, using 12% annuity rate  S67 per of ton of C02 reduction



POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Marginal Cost Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis
Increase in          Increase in Labor Costs            Increase in    .    All Increases
BASE   Environmental Fees a/       5% per year    I Breakeven   Energy Prices bl c/        Combined
. CASE    Max IRR I  Min IRR   Max IRR I Min IRR   Increase    Max IRR I Min IRR   Max IRR I Mi IRR
HIGH-EFFICIENCY CONDENSING BOILER TECHNOLOGY
1. Real Increase in Labor Costs                                            5%        5%          10%
2. Incremental IRR                      -2%         12%        15%        17%       18%          25%       -20%      -18%        21%       22%
3. Required IRR
2.1 Boiler Owner                    25%         25%                   25%                    250        25%                  250°
2.2  Minimum Target                 12%                     15%                  18%                               120                  22%
4. GEF Grant as Percent
of GEF Project Cost                 34%         19%         0%        15%        0%           0°        40%       28%         7%        0%
5. Annualized Incremental Costs
(in US$ per ton of C02 reduction)  I  $37       $21         $0 .      $16         $0          $0        $44       $31 .       $7        $0
Notes:        a/ Environmental fees increased to: S02: US$325/ton; Dust: US$2160/ton; NOx: US$400/ton.
b/ For Facility at Jana Street, gas price is increased to UScent2O/Nm3.
COGENERATION TECHNOLOGY
1. Real Increase in Labor Costs                                            5%        50          200                              5%        5%
2. Incremental IRR                     -11%         -5%        -40        -3%       -2%                      7%        9%        11%       13%
3. Required IRR
2.1 Boiler Owner                    25%         25%0                  25%                               25%0                 25%
2.2  Minimum Target                 12%                     12%                  120h        120                   12%|                 13%
4. GEF Grant as Percent
of GEF Project Cost                 600/        570        42%        57%       42%           0%h       42%       12%        36%        0%
5. Annualized Incremental Costs
(in US$ per ton of C02 reduction)   $67         $64         $47 |     $64        $47          $0 |      $47       $13        $40         $0
Notes:        c/ For facility at Warszawska Street, gas and electricity prices are increased to UScentl8/Nm3 and US$1 0/MWh, respectively.
(DX



Annex 19
Table 19-4
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Cost-Effectiveness of Energy Efficiency Fund for New Residential Buildings
Data on Residential Units
Average Unit Area                                                                   67.9 m2
Occupancy Factor                                                                   0.036 people per m2
Service Life for Buildings                                                            50 years
Assumptions
Economic Price for Heat                                                            $12.5 per GJ
Economic Price for Electricity                                                    $100.0 per MWh
Heat SuDDly Sources                                              Production Mix           Efficiencv
- Individual gas furnaces                                                50.0%                85.0%
- Coal-fired boilers                                                     50.0%                80.0%
Efficiency of Electricity Production in Coal-Fired Plants                                     34.0°h
Energy Efficiency & Conservation Measures
Incremental Energy Savings   Costs
Increased Insulation of Wall, Ceiling & Window               20% (heat saving)     $7.44 per m2
Improved Automation & Control of Heat Installation           100% (heat saving)    $2.95 per m2
Heat Recuperator                                             200/o (heat saving)
- per single family detached two-story house (150 m2)                              $913 per house
- per apartment building (converted into m2 basis)                                 $6.09 per m2
Efficient Electric Appliances & Improved Comsumption Behavior  25% (electricity saving)    $450 per unit
Total Energy Savings                   Number of Units          Number of
Costs of Efficiency Measures            Heat Electricitv Cost per Unit      within Fund Budaget          Peole
- without Heat Recuperator               28%       25%   $1,155                      801                  1955
- with Heat Recuperator                  42%       15%   $1,388                      666                  1625
Fund Allocated for Energy Efficiency and Conservation
Measures (including US$75,000 Administration, Energy Audit & Monitoring)                $1,000,000
|             ~~~ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Before I  After  I  Savings   |, Reduction Without Heat Recuperator
REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION (including heat recuperator)                             After   % Reduction
Heat Consumption Factor (Excluding Heat Recuperator)l
- in kWh per m2          101.81    58.55         43.26       42%      73.19         28%
- in MJ per m2          366.52    210.78        155.73               263.48
Electricity Consumption Factor  (in kWh/m2lperson)     12.76     10.84          1.91       15%/      9.57        25%
HEAT SAVINGS (including savings from heat recuperator)
Heat Consumption:   - in GJ                           16,574     9,532         7,042               14,330
Heat Required (in GJ) from:  - Individual gas furnaces    8,287  4,766         3,521                7,165
- Coal-fired boilers     8,287     4,766         3,521                7,165
Fuel Used (in GJ)    - Gas                             9,749     5,607         4,142                8,429
- Coal                            10,359     5,958         4,401                8,956
C02 emissions from Heat Savings (in tons)
- Individual gas furnaces                          517       297           220       43%       447          28%
- Coal-fired boilers                               953       548           405       420/0      824        28%
Sub-total                          1,470       845           625       43%      1,271         28%
ELECTRICITY SAVINGS (reduced by electricity consumed by heat recuperator)
Electricity Consumption (in MWh)                       1,408     1,197          211        15%      1,270        25%
Coal Consumption at Power Plants (in MWh)              4,141     3,521          620                 3,735
C02 Emission Reduction at Power Plants (in tons)         130      110            20        15/       117         250/
:    COST-EFFECTIVENESS CALCULATION
Total C02 emission reduction (in tons)                 1,600      955           645        40°k     1,388         280/
Annual Cost Savings (in US$)   - heat                207,175   119,150        88,025      420/a  179,125         28%
- electricity          140,800   119,700        21,100       150/a  127,00          25%
Total         347,975   238,850       109,125      31 %I  306,125         27%h
Incremental Cost (on annualized per ton basis,               with Heat Recuperator            without Heat RecuDerator
@ 12% annuity rate) (US$/ton of C02 reduced)    /a             $187                               $225
Payback Period (years)                                             9.2                                8.9
Rate of Return                                                     10%                                11%
Note:           /a Assume equal annual operating costs for units, with or without efficiency measures.



Annex 20
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
for Project Management and Consultancy Services
1.    The technical assistance for project management and consultancy services
is a key component of the GEF project, intended to permit smooth implementation.
This assistance would be provided for a number of project activities and
participants.   However,  it is sufficiently flexible to permit reorientation
toward other high priority areas that may emerge during project implementation.
The following provides a brief overview of the technical assistance services to
key project participants such as the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS), the
Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP), the local Technical Advisory
Groups (TAGs) and the prospective beneficiaries (boiler owners and new
residential building owners).
2.    For Central BOS Office.   Technical assistance would be required in the
following areas:
(a)   Education on  standard World  Bank procurement  and disbursement
procedures.    Assistance  would be  provided  by  Bank  staff  and
consultants and through specialized training courses;
(b)   Improving  local  capabilities  in  project  administration  and
financing, implementation management, performance monitoring and
reporting procedures, plus international financial procedures.
Assistance would be provided by qualified consultants;
(c)   Acquisition of capabilities to use and interpret the cost-benefit
spreadsheet model for coal-to-gas conversion projects. Assistance
would be provided by Bank staff; and
(d)   Implementation of the marketing plan for the project.  Assistance
would be provided by a qualified contractor.
3.    For Regional BOS Offices.   Technical assistance would be in the same
general areas as for the central BOS office, but with the following differences:
(a)   Emphasis on learning procedures for evaluating the technical and
financial viability of the projects within the GEF criteria. This
assistance to regional BOS staff includes: (i) informing project
applicants about GEF criteria and application requirements; (ii)
acquiring the capability to carry out technical and financial
appraisals of project applicants; (iii) acquiring the capability to
adapt the cost/benefit spreadsheet model for coal-to-gas conversion
projects to specific sites and to interpret the results; (iv)
acquiring the capability to supervise progress with project
implementation and prepare progress reports; and (v) acquiring the



Annex 20
Page 2 of 2
capability to monitor the technical and environmental performance of
GEF-supported projects and prepare project completion reports; and
(b)   Implementation of the marketing plan for the project at the local
level.
Assistance would be provided initially by qualified consultants and then
by local experts from the local Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs).
4.    For the national Scientific Technical Advisory Panel (STAP).  Technical
assistance would be provided to this group in the following areas:
(a)   Understanding  the objectives  of the GEF Coal-to-Gas  Conversion
Project, the economic criteria, and the range and applicability of
technical options on both the supply and demand sides of possible
projects. Assistance would be provided by Bank staff and qualified
consultants as needed;
(b)   Acquiring the capability to use and interpret the cost/benefit
spreadsheet model for coal-to-gas conversion projects. Assistance
would be provided by Bank staff as needed; and
(c)   Assistance on specific technical subjects and issues related to
specific projects being reviewed, as required or requested.
Assistance would be provided by Bank staff and qualified consultants
through such means as visits, telephone calls and faxes, as appropriate.
5.    For local Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs).  Technical assistance would be
provided to these groups in the same general areas as for the national STAP and
regional BOS offices, as listed above. The regional BOS offices would coordinate
the assistance.   Initially qualified consultants and later STAP, central BOS
office, and regional BOS offices and the local TAGs, which would already have
benefited from such assistance, would provide the services. These later groups
would serve as trainers of trainees.
6.    For Boiler Owners.  Technical assistance to boiler owners would available
in the following areas: (a) for projects at the identification phase, assistance
to project applicants in the preparation of project proposals consistent with GEF
funding requirements; and (b) for applicants whose project proposals have been
approved by STAP, assistance in implementing the project, from conceptual design
to full operations,  including monitoring requirements.   Assistance would be
provided by regional BOS offices, local experts or TAG members and qualified
engineering consultants acting as boiler owner representatives.
7.    For Owners of New Residential Buildings.  Technical assistance to owners
of new residential buildings would be in the area of auditing for energy
efficiency in new residential buildings.   Assistance would be provided by
qualified local energy auditors.



Annex 21
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP)
(Terms of Reference)
Roles of STAP
1.    STAP's major role would be to ensure that all GEF projects are designed and
accomplished in a technically sound manner. In this role, STAP would function
as the technical advisor and partner to the Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE) and the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) in
accomplishing project activities.   STAP would meet routinely to provide an
independent technical review of all candidate projects to ensure the project
designs comply with the GEF scientific and technical requirements and also to
assess the cost-effectiveness of these candidates and their priorities for GEF
funding. STAP would determine if the design of each identified project meets the
stated GEF requirements and would inform BOS (and MoE) as to its decisions.
STAP's decision on project approval would be final.
Qualifications of STAP Members
2.    STAP would consist of five scientists, two of whom would be international
(a gas cogeneration specialist and an energy economist) and three from Poland
(including an energy audit/end-user energy efficiency specialist, a district
heating specialist, and an instrumentation and monitoring specialist). These
advisors should be independent without affiliation with the institutions involved
(or which could potentially be involved) in the decision-making of follow-up
projects, yet to be identified. MoE will nominate the members of the panel and
the Bank would review their qualifications and experience and approve their
appointment.
Scope of Work -- List of Major Responsibilities and Deliverables
3.    STAP Chairman and Secretarv.
(a)   MoE would designate the STAP chairman and secretary;
(b)   The  STAP  chairman would be  responsible  for  coordinating  STAP
activities and providing liaison with MoE, BOS and local experts and
Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs). The STAP chairman may delegate
some or all of the liaison functions to the STAP secretary as
appropriate; and
(c)   The STAP secretary would be responsible for documenting STAP actions
and decisions.
4.    STAP Meetings.
(a)   The panel would meet two to three times a year, or as necessary, to



Annex 21
Page 2 of 3
review applications for GEF funding;
(b)   STAP may also meet at other times as required to accomplish its
responsibilities; and
(c)   STAP expenses related to travel, subsistence and honoraria for both
Polish and external specialists would be supported from GEF project
resources to ensure an independent technical perspective.
5.    Independent Technical Review of all Candidate Proiects ADDlving for GEF
Funding.
(a)   During the project preparation phase, STAP would assist BOS in: (i)
reviewing the second tranche of pilot projects, selected from an
already identified list of individual projects; and (ii) refining,
inter alia, the detailed rules and procedures for the early steps in
the project development cycle; and
(b)   At this stage STAP would provide an independent technical review of
all applicants for GEF funding and ensure that their project designs
comply with the GEF scientific and technical requirements.   STAP
would also assess the cost-effectiveness of these candidates, their
priorities for GEF funding.   STAP would review the amount of GEF
grant contribution to the project financing.   A quorum for STAP
meetings would be three or more members, including at least one
international STAP member. All STAP decisions to approve projects
to receive GEF grant assistance under this project shall be by
unanimous  vote.    STAP would  inform BOS  (and MoE)  as  to  its
decisions. STAP's decision on project approval would be final.
6.    Defining the Technical Requirements and Supervising Consultants.
(a)   For projects at the appraisal stage, the STAP would:  (a) develop
terms of reference (TORs) for the services of the TAG members or
technical advisors to assist BOS in the appraisal of individual
coal-to-gas candidate projects for GEF funding; (b) review the
selection process and approve GEF funds for TAG services; (c) review
TAG members' products; and (d) approve GEF funding for project
implementation.
(b)   For projects at the implementation stage, STAP would: (a) develop
TORs for the services of the project engineers acting as the boiler
owners' representatives; (b) review the selection process and
approve GEF funds for the boiler owners' representatives; and (c)
designate a STAP member to oversee project implementation from the
conceptual phase to full operation, including monitoring of project
performance. Depending on the size of a project, STAP may delegate
the responsibility for oversight of project implementation to a
member of the local TAG members.   Depending on the geographical
location of individual conversion projects and their size, STAP may
develop TORs for the services of an owners' representative to cover



Annex 21
Page 3 of 3
a group of individual projects.
(c)   STAP may also assist BOS in defining the technical requirements for
other project activities.
7.    Technical Assistance and Information Dissemination.  Besides its technical
review, STAP would:
(a)   provide technical assistance to local experts and TAGs as requested;
(b)   set up a national network for the dissemination and exchange of
information among all local experts and technical advisors, building
upon existing information sources and channels, including libraries.
This would, inter alia, stimulate international exchanges of
information and technical cooperation (such as twinning arrangements
between Polish and foreign technical institutions), where possible;
and
(c)   implement other information programs (such as newsletters, seminars,
and presentations at meetings of technical societies) to ensure
widespread dissemination of STAP activities to the relevant Polish
technical communities, so as to facilitate project replicability
throughout Poland. Members of the technical community might include
representatives from universities, professional architecture and
engineering societies, codes and standards organizations, related
institutions, foundations and affected industries (for example,
boiler suppliers, monitoring equipment suppliers and insulation
manufacturers, owners of buildings and heating systems, heating
system operators, architect engineering and construction firms).
Delegation of STAP Activities
8.    As necessary, STAP may delegate specific activities to local individual
experts, firms or members of the local TAGs. Sub-contracting arrangements would
be evaluated case-by-case and funded from STAP's allocated budget. Each sub-
contractor would carry out the activities under the supervision of STAP.
Budget for the STAP
9.    An estimated budget of US$190,000 for STAP activities has been allocated
under the proposed project. A detailed breakdown of this budget is presented in
Table 21-1 of this annex.



Annex 21
Table 21-1
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Budget Estimate
for the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
A. STAP members
Number of experts
- Foreign                      =              2
- Polish                       =              3
B. Cost Parameters
Services  Per diem         Travel
(per day) Allowances International Within Poland
- Foreign            $600       $150     $2,420
- Polish             $200        $50                  $100
C. Costs of Proiect Review Meetings
Number of year                 =              3
Number of meetings per year    =              3
Number of days
- per meeting                  =              3
- per report writing
& documentation follow-up    =              1
Number of days for roundtrip travel
- International travel         =              2
- within Poland                =              1
Services             Travel             Subsi tence      Total
Time     Costs   Number        Costs      Time   Costs   Costs
|-Foreign    108   $64,800         18    $43,560         72 $10,800 $119,160
- Polish     135   $27,000        27     $2,700        108   $5,400   $35,100
| Total  243   $91,800              $46,260        180 $16,200  $154,260
D. Proiect Supervision & Ad-hoc Advisory Services
Number of days per year
- Foreign                      =              2
- Polish                       =              8
Allocation for services                    Time      Costs
- Foreign                      =             12     $7,200
- Polish                       =             72    $14,400
Total         =             84    $21,600
E. Overall Proiect Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
Number of days
- per meeting                                 2
- per report writing
& documentation follow-up                   1
Number of days
- International travel                        2
- within Poland                =              1
Services             Travel             Subsistence      Total
Time     Costs   Number        Costs      Time   Costs   Gosts
- Foreign     10    $6,000         2    $4,840           3    $450   $11,290
- Polish      12   $2,400          3       $300          3    $150    $2,850
Total     22    $8,400               $5,140          6    $600   $14,140
F. Budget estimates for STAP
Budget Allocation        Costs
- Foreign experts     $137,650
- Polish experts       $52,350
Total                 $190,000



Annex 22
Page 1 of 9
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Boiler Owners' Representative
(Terms of Reference) "
Role of Boiler Owner Representatives
1.    Each owner of a project heating system would have a boiler owner's
representative to assist in finalizing project definition, preparing project
specifications and a request-for-proposals package, evaluating the proposals
received, recommending the contract award, assisting in contract negotiations,
carrying out supervision/periodic inspection of the contractor's work, and
assuring the owners of the validity of the acceptance testing upon completion of
each  individual  project.    The  owners'  representatives,  acting  as project
managers, would be responsible for bringing each individual project from the
conceptual phase to full operations.
2.    The  owners'   representative  would  also  provide  training  to  the
local/regional offices of Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) in the areas of:
(a)   Energy efficiency and effectiveness in reducing pollutant emissions;
and
(b)   Preparation/updating of the project operations handbook based on
actual experience with the initial monitoring and the completion of
the two pilot projects in Krakow.   The project handbook would
provide guidelines and a reference source to assist BOS, future
project proposers and their consultants, and contractors in
identifying projects that would be effective in implementing the
objectives of the GEF project.
Qualifications of the Owners' Representatives
3.    The owners' representatives should have extensive first-hand experience in
engineering and specification of the assembly of the components of small-scale
installations such as: (a) highly efficient gas-fired heating boilers, condensing
and non-condensing technology type; and (b) cogeneration assemblies of natural
gas engines and gas turbine-powered generators of 1.0-1.5 Megawatt-electric and
efficient heat recovery boilers and auxiliary equipment such as a gas compressor
to boost the incoming natural gas pressure to a level sufficient for firing a gas
turbine.
4.    Because of its importance within the GEF pilot phase, it is expected that
1 /    These terms of reference were developed for the boiler owners' representative of the two pilot projects in
Krakow. They could be adapted for follow-up conversion projects as required.



Annex 22
Page 2 of 9
GEF participant countries would review the Poland - GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion
Project intensively for potential replicability.   Therefore,  above all the
owners' representatives would assure the owners of reliable, efficient and
trouble-free installation and state-of-the-art economic performance, project
implementation and monitoring, all of which could serve as a model for similar
installations throughout the country and elsewhere.
5.    Given the small size of these individual projects, some of the activities
listed in the scope of work, such as providing conceptual designs for new
installations may, as a practical matter, essentially copy the design of a
similar project.   The same may hold true for the specifications, which may
consist of a package plant that may be largely preassembled and tested and
require minimum on-site assembly. Therefore, the owner's representatives should
have extensive experience in successfully executing similar end-user energy
efficiency and conservation projects, small heat plants and small combined heat
and  power  plants,   including  project  design,  engineering,  construction
supervision, operation, maintenance and monitoring. In addition, to the extent
that there are valid designs, specifications and other documents already
available from similar projects, and in order to conserve time and resources, the
owner's representatives should utilize, to the maximum extent possible, existing
system designs that have been shown to operate successfully.
General Guidelines for the Owners' Representatives
6.    Transfer of Know-How. Throughout project preparation and implementation,
the process should be thoroughly documented to ensure its use for future
replicability. The owners' representatives are required to work closely with the
owners and ensure effective participation of local counterparts for a continuous
transfer of know-how.   In addition to the obvious benefits that result from
having a local firm that understands local customs and the best sources of
services and assistance, it is the intent of this requirement that local firms
be able to gain experience and perspective on projects and technologies such as
those included in the two GEF pilot projects in Krakow and to develop their
capabilities independently to carry out future projects effectively.
7.    Local and National Regulatory Considerations.  The owners' representatives
are required to investigate and document the logistics, procedures and
institutional requirements to be followed in the construction, safe operation and
maintenance of gas-fired boilers and small cogeneration plants. They are also
required to obtain and document all regulatory information on small district
heating plants that may have an impact on the contemplated projects, especially
gas storage, ambient air quality and air emissions, waste water discharges, solid
waste disposal, noise and occupational and health hazards, if any.
8.    Incremental Economic and Financial Analysis - Sensitivity Analysis.  An
approach to evaluate economic and global environmental objectives and determine
the cost-effectiveness of technology options for emission reduction needs to be
defined and followed, particularly with options that are not least-cost but are
least polluting. The owners' representatives should use: (a) a new coal-fired



Annex 22
Page 3 of 9
heat-only boiler option as the base case and the national economic perspective
as the basis for evaluating options; and (b) consider a set of technology options
that respond to the GEF project objectives but that are marginally economic from
the country's point of view and that would likely not be implemented without GEF
concessional financing. Given the volatility of the prices for network fuels and
their move toward economic levels, analysis of price sensitivity for the
identification and justification of options should be carried out. This analysis
would provide the basis for justifying the use of GEF funds and determining the
size of the GEF grant needed to justify the preferred option or set of options
on economic as well as environmental grounds.
9.    Preparation  of  Specific  Recommendations.         In  preparing  specific
recommendations for the design for each individual project, the owners'
representatives would:
(a)   in the case of heat-only-boiler projects, evaluate the economic and
technical merits of high-efficiency gas-fired non-condensing heat-
only-boilers versus higher efficiency gas-fired condensing boilers;
and
(b)   in the case of cogeneration projects: (i) evaluate the technical and
economic merits of utilizing internal combustion engines versus gas
turbine-driven generators; (ii) consider whether one or more than
one engine-driven or gas turbine generators are needed; and (iii)
evaluate the merits of providing the capability for supplemental
firing of heat recovery boilers, including the use of natural gas-
fueled duct burners for gas turbine exhaust as compared with
separate peaking boilers for meeting heating needs on the coldest
days. The owners' representatives would also evaluate the merits of
including absorption chillers in the cogeneration plant either for
serving an external cooling load or for cooling the gas turbine
inlet air to achieve higher capacity and improved efficiency. The
objective is to ensure a high load factor for the contemplated
cogeneration scheme. The owners' representatives would evaluate the
possibility of introducing heat accumulators to meet peak demand for
heat as well as to provide an autonomous heat supply when additional
electric capacity from the cogeneration unit is needed.
10.   For all individual projects,  to assure reliability and uninterrupted
operation during the heating season in the event of a loss of gas supply, the
owners' representatives would consider a dual-firing capability and incorporate
appropriate specifications for the use of distillate fuel.
11.   In preparing specific recommendations for the capacity and configuration
of cogeneration projects, typical/possible configurations could include, but are
not necessarily limited to, the following:
(a)   Gas turbine or gas-fueled internal combustion engine exhausting into
a low pressure heat recovery boiler;



Annex 22
Page 4 of 9
(b)   Gas turbine exhausting into a higher pressure heat recovery boiler,
with the possibility of generating steam for injection into the gas
turbine for added electric generating capacity;
(c)   Combined-cycle cogeneration scheme, consisting of a two-cycle system
-- gas turbine exhausting into a higher pressure heat recovery
boiler, with the possibility of generating high pressure steam to
supply a steam turbine for added electric generating capacity;
(d)   Gas  turbine  or  natural  gas-fueled  internal  combustion  engine
exhausting into a higher pressure heat recovery boiler, with the
possibility of generating steam for utilization in an absorption
chiller for either commercial refrigeration or for cooling the gas
turbine inlet air with or without ice storage to permit, inter alia,
more efficient gas turbine operation during the warmer months; or
(e)   High  temperature  recuperators  for  regenerative  heating  of  the
compressed gas turbine combustor inlet air;
In all the above cases, the owners' representatives should evaluate the
merits-of (a) a-single engine or gas turbine-driven generators versus multiple
units and (b) high-efficiency heat recovery boilers versus very high-efficiency
condensing heat recovery boilers.
12.   At all project sites, the owners' representatives would be required to
introduce innovative features and technologies into the conceptual design of each
project.
13.   In evaluating the merits of possible configurations for each site, the
owners' representatives would be required to: (a) analyze the options; (b)
develop an economic and financial analysis for each option; and (c) taking
practicality into account, recommend the option with the highest cost/benefit
ratio for reducing emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2).
Scope of Work - List of Major Tasks and Deliverables
14.   The owners' representatives would include the results of these analyses and
studies in a report to the owner for each site, offering specific recommendations
for the heating plant and cogeneration plant, for the renovation of the heat
distribution and transfer systems, and for improving the efficiency of energy use
within the buildings and facilities served.   This report would specifically
address each of the requirements listed below, which would also be the basis for
the GEF project operations handbook:
15.   Task One:  Project Definition and Conceptual Design
(a)   Determination of the heat demand for each individual project and,
for each cogeneration project, determination of the optimum and
practicable   electricity  generation  capacity.         The  owners'
representatives would: (i) review the present and anticipated future
demand for heat supply, both hot water and steam, for each project
site and analyze the heat load duration curve;   (ii) review the



Annex 22
Page 5 of 9
present/future electricity demand for the facilities served by the
cogeneration projects; and (iii) identify the optimum heat supply
mix throughout the year, including the possibility of using
absorption chilling;
(b)   Preparation of a conceptual design and detailed cost estimates for
the recommended heating boiler and cogeneration plants, for the
renovation of the heat distribution and transfer systems, for
improved efficiency in energy use in the buildings and facilities
served, and for the connection of the new facilities to the gas,
electricity and heat networks.   This sub-task should include at
least the following:
(1)   A project description, including a discussion of the specific
technologies recommended for the new heating and cogeneration
plants, for the rehabilitation of the heat distribution and
transfer systems, and for the improvement in the efficiency of
energy use in the buildings included in the individual
projects, along with a discussion of the alternatives
considered and a justification of the recommended option.
This description should cover the instrumentation and controls
package, the project efficiency and emissions monitoring
package, and auxiliary and supporting facility requirements,
including provisions for receiving and storing back-up
distillate fuel. It would also cover all necessary provisions
for the safe removal and disposal of existing heating
facilities, protection of the environment and employee/public
health and safety;
(2)   Discussion of specific site and technology constraints and
potential problem areas. This discussion would include, but
not necessarily be limited to: (i) the intake air and fuel
quality required for reliable long term operation of the gas
turbines; (ii) gas supply pressures and the probable need for
the inclusion of a gas compressor station if gas turbines are
employed; (iii) the specific restrictions imposed by siting in
a historical area, such as limited vehicle access; (iv) space
limitations; (v) renovation of existing buildings; and (vi)
probable requirements for retaining the external architectural
features of existing structures and likely prohibition on new
permanent buildings, etc.;
(3)   Energy and material balances for the new boiler house and
cogeneration units, including conventional pollutant and waste
materials balances and balances for sulfur dioxide (SO2),
nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulates and CO2, for both the
selected technologies and the system being replaced. Energy
and water/steam balances should also be shown for the
rehabilitated heat distribution systems and for the buildings
and facilities (cafeteria, laundry) included in each project;



Annex 22
Page 6 of 9
(4)   Flow diagrams incorporating all major equipment items for the
principal processes in the heating and cogeneration plants,
heat distribution and transfer systems, and buildings and
facilities served;
(5)   Site plan showing the major building or buildings, location of
service connections such as water, natural gas, electrical
distribution system, sewers, and location of back-up fuel
(oil) tanks and vehicle access to and within the site;
(6)   Facility/building section and plan views for the heating and
cogeneration plants showing the location of the principal
equipment, including heat accumulators if used, the control
center, offices, storage areas for materials, supplies and
spare parts, and maintenance facilities;
(7)   The architect's perspective of the layout of the equipment for
the heating and cogeneration plants within their respective
buildings. One approach would be to show a perspective of the
entire building with an exterior wall cutaway so as to show
the equipment inside;
(8)   Project cost estimates, including a breakdown of the costs in
both local and foreign currencies;
(9)   An estimate of the operating and maintenance costs;
(10)  Guidance on the operation and maintenance of the new facility;
(11)  An analysis  of the manpower  resources  required,  project
implementation organization, job descriptions and a staffing
plan, including an assessment of the training needs;
(12)  Specific recommendations for the safe removal and disposal of
all equipment in existing boiler houses scheduled to be
retired in connection with the individual projects;
(13)  A  detailed  logic  diagram  of  activities  and  schedule,
identifying milestones for each project. This diagram would
require the detailed implementation planning and work
scheduling, taking into account the operational constraint of
supplying heat to end-users during the heating season.
Various options for work schedules should be evaluated as to
their impacts on both the interruptibility of heat supply and
project costs;
(14)  Discussion of the environmental and aesthetic impacts and
considerations, including estimates of the quantities of
pollutants and waste materials to be emitted or discharged;



Annex 22
Page 7 of 9
(15)  (i) Evaluation of alternative variations within the agreed-
upon  general  concept  for  all  individual  projects;  (ii)
preparation of a site-specific conceptual design and cost
estimate for each individual project (for example, in the case
of the cogeneration project, would natural gas internal
combustion engines be more suitable than gas turbines for the
specific project; and in the case of all projects, can the
cost of very high efficiency condensing heating boilers and
heat recovery boilers and peaking boilers, if any, be
justified as compared with the lower cost but still highly
efficient non-condensing boilers);
(16)  Design  of  an  economic  and  easy-to-implement  system  for
monitoring the in-service performance of GEF-funded projects
over a period of years after implementation. Such a system
would include a standardized system for measuring reductions
in emissions of SO2, NOx, CO2 and particulates in a way that
permits easy calculation and reporting by the project
implementation office on an automated basis.   The in-plant
measurement system should be designed to be easily replicable
at future GEF sites, regardless of the specific technologies
employed, and should be compatible with an automated data
analysis and reporting system.   (This paragraph refers to a
system. The elements of the standardized monitoring system to
be located at the owners' facilities are to be designed and
installed by the construction contractor so as to meet the
monitoring and reporting system compatibility requirements
specified by the owners' representatives.) This system would
be used, inter alia, as a basis for producing verifiable
project results and ensuring compliance with GEF project
objectives; and
(17)  Preparation of an economic and financial analysis to determine
the amount of GEF incremental funding required.  This analysis
should include a financing plan, cash flow and disbursement
profile; and
(c)   Assistance to the owners in drafting and negotiating simple long-
term agreements for: (i) sales of heat; (ii) sales of electricity;
and (iii) supply of gas.
16.   Task Two:   Procurement Strate2v and Assistance in Bidding Process and
Contract Award.   Upon approval of the specific project recommendations,  the
owners' representatives should:
(a)   For  each  individual  project,  define  the  optimum  procurement
strategy, given the split between local and foreign cost, the
alternatives being (i) a single engineering, procurement and
construction (EPC) package or (ii) several subproject packages. In



Annex 22
Page 8 of 9
the latter case, the interface requirements need to be defined. One
single bidding document for a EPC contract is highly recommended.
(b)   Assist the project owners in preparing bid packages and bidding
documents (technical and commercial specifications) for the new
heating boiler and cogeneration plants, the rehabilitation work on
the heat distribution systems, the energy efficiency improvement
work on the buildings and facilities served, and the connection to
gas and electricity networks.
The goods would be procured following the World Bank's competitive
bidding procedures. The World Bank Procurement Guidelines and the
now mandatory Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, Works and
Services must be followed for all project procurement packages.
These guidelines and documents would be made available to the
owners' representatives.
The owners' representatives would include in the bid package a
statement of the scope of work for providing and installing the
facilities specified on a turn-key basis and for training the
owners' management and staff in the proper operation and maintenance
of all equipment and facilities supplied.
The EPC contractors shall assume all responsibility for delivering
to the owners a project meeting all the specifications according to
the agreed-upon schedule and cost, and in compliance with all local
and national codes and regulations;
(c)   Formulate in the bidding document post-qualification criteria to be
met by prospective bidders to ensure the participation of
internationally qualified contractors with substantial experience in
supplying  turn-key  projects  similar  to  and  utilizing  the
technologies to be employed with all individual projects;
(d)   Develop bid evaluation criteria to be included in the bidding
documents and to be followed to ensure transparent evaluation of the
bids;
(e)   Upon  receiving  clearance  from  the  World  Bank  on  the bidding
documents, assist the owners in issuing invitations to bid;
(f)   Assist the owners in evaluating proposals received and recommend to
the owners the proposal that most economically meets all individual
project specifications and schedules and is determined to be
responsive to the commercial and technical specifications of the
bidding documents;
(g)   Once the Bank approves the owner's recommendation of the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder, assist the owner in negotiating a
binding contract with the recommended bidder for delivering the



Annex 22
Page 9 of 9
turn-key projects;
17.   Task Three:   Supervision of Construction Contractor's Work.  including
AcceRtance Testing and Commissioning.
(a)   Review the contractor's designs and specifications;
(b)   Carry  out  periodic  supervision/inspection  of  the  construction
contractor's work in progress and monitor the construction
contractor's compliance with specifications and schedules, including
the fabrication of components at the manufacturers' facilities and
final acceptance testing and commissioning of completed projects;
18.   Task Four:  Preparation of GEF Proiect Operations Handbook. Prepare and
update the project handbook designed to assist the project implementation offices
and future GEF proposers in developing, o- iining approval and implementing
acceptable projects with a minimum of problems and expenses.



Annex 23
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Operations Handbook Consultant and Applications Processing Consultant
(Terms of Reference)
1.    Terms of Reference (TORs) for two consultants are defined here to assist
the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) with project implementation. One consultant
would assist BOS in developing an Operations Handbook, including the development
of application forms. The second consultant would assist BOS in processing the
applications for GEF funding during the first round of projects in the nationwide
program and in evaluating the first-round projects.
Operations Handbook Consultant
Scope of Work and List of Major Tasks and Deliverables
2.    Task One: Assist BOS to Prepare Draft Operations Handbook. The first task
would be to develop an Operations Handbook for the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion
Project. This Operations Handbook would contain examples of all the forms and
procedures needed to accomplish the project development cycle. For example, it
should include such items as standardized application forms, detailed eligibility
criteria, evaluation forms and procedures, form letters and draft TORs. Draft
versions of some of these materials have already been developed, for example, as
shown in Annexes 4.  8-11 and 21-24.   These drafts would be developed in
cooperation with the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) and central
BOS office. These draft materials would be refined during the tasks below.
3.    Task Two:  Assist in a Training and Review Workshop.  This workshop would
be held to discuss and test the materials in the draft Operations Handbook. A
key objective would be to refine the contents of the GEF Operations Handbook as
a result of discussions at the workshop. Members of STAP, local experts, members
of Technical Advisory Groups and BOS should participate. The workshop should
focus in particular on reviewing and refining the GEF project evaluation criteria
for clarity and appropriate detail to minimize problems during the first round
of candidate project applications. Technical assistance requirements, mechanisms
and procedures would also be discussed.
4.    Task Three:  Assist BOS to Refine the Operations Handbook.  The Operations
Handbook consultant should assist BOS to incorporate the refinements identified
from the first round of applications and the evaluation workshop. The revised
version should be suitable for distribution to and use by technical experts and
regional BOS offices in designated regions and locales.



Annex 23
Page 2 of 2
Applications Processing Consultant
Scope of Work and List of Major Tasks and Deliverables
5.    Some 20 potential projects in several regions had been identified by the
end of the appraisal mission. Additional projects would be identified from these
and other regions and the set of applications would be evaluated together. The
proposed schedule for initiating this first round of projects in the full,
nationwide GEF program is shown in Table 18-3 of Annex 18.  The Applications
Processing consultant would assist BOS in processing this first-round projects
in accordance with the following tasks.
6.    Task One:  Assist BOS to Evaluate Applications.  During the first round of
projects in a full nationwide program, the Applications Processing consultant
would assist BOS in accomplishing steps 1-11 of the project flow diagram shown
in Figure 8-1 of Annex 8.  This assistance would include both technical and
procedural inputs to the central BOS office and local BOS offices, as
appropriate. For each applicant for GEF funding, BOS would receive assistance
in accomplishing the following activities, as appropriate:
(a)   Evaluation of the pre-feasibility study and environmental impact
assessment (Step 2, Fig. 8-1, Annex 8);
(b)   Conduct of the financial pre-qualification (Step 3, Fig. 8-1, Annex
8);
(c)   Provision of input, as requested, into the technical evaluations by
local experts (Step 4, Fig. 8-1, Annex 8);
(d)   BOS cooperation with voivodships and gminas (Steps 5 & 6, Fig. 8-1,
Annex 8);
(e)   Review of GEF eligibility criteria at the central BOS office (Step
8, Fig. 8-1, Annex 8);
(f)   Assembly of a financial package for the project (Step 10, Fig. 8-1,
Annex 8); and
(g)   Obtaining of approvals and signing of contracts (Step 11, Fig. 8-1,
Annex 8).
7.    The Applications Processing consultant would provide feedback to the
Operations Handbook consultant, as appropriate, based on lessons learned from the
above process.
8.    Task Two: Continue to Assist BOS in Administering the Selected Projects.
Once the first round of projects have been selected in the nationwide program,
the consultant would continue to assist BOS in administering the selected
projects, according to the activity sequence listed in Steps 12-19 of Figure 8-1
of Annex 8.



Annex 24
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Local Experts and Members of the Technical Advisory Groups
(Terms of Reference)
1.    Terms of Reference are defined here for two groups of consultants to assist
boiler owners and Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (BOS) with the preparation and
appraisal of project proposals. The first group (local experts) would assist the
boiler owners in assessing the eligibility of project sites for GEF financing of
boiler conversion from coal to gas and in formulating project proposals for
regional BOS offices. The second group (Technical Advisory Groups) would assist
central and regional BOS offices in appraising project proposals.
Local Experts
Scope of Work and List of Major Tasks and Deliverables
2.    Obiectives.  Local experts/engineer consultants (or consulting firms) can
assist prospective  applicants  for GEF funding  in understanding  the major
advantages and responsibilities associated with participation in a GEF-funded
project.  These experts would provide low-cost assistance to boiler owners in
assessing the relative attractiveness of their proposed projects and in defining
the specific proposal best suited for the particular facility.   BOS would
maintain a roster of qualified consultants from which boiler owners could seek
assistance.
3.    Qualifications.  The consulting firm or individual consultant assisting a
boiler owner must have a valid license or registration to practice engineering
in Poland and have satisfactorily completed a training program sponsored by BOS.
The purpose of the training would be to assure that the consulting firm and/or
the individual consultant: (a) understands the GEF project and the eligibility
criteria and technology requirements; (b) has walked through a sample GEF
application appraisal and implementation process; (c) can effectively assist
interested boiler owners in determining whether the owners' facility may qualify;
and (d) can assist boiler owners in complying with the procedures.
4.    TYpes of Services Reguired.  Assistance would generally be provided in the
following steps.
Step a:     Initial Consultation with the Owners.  The consultant would
advise owners on considerations and requirements related to
obtaining GEF funding and to the longer term obligations for
monitoring.
Step b:     Screening Evaluation of the Proposed Project.  The consultant
would provide low-cost assistance in assessing the condition



Annex 24
Page 2 of 4
of boilers, structures and all associated facilities (heat
transfer and distribution systems and energy user facilities
served by the boilers) for suitability for GEF funding. This
assistance includes consultations with owners, a review of
documents and drawings and a walk-through inspection of the
facilities. The consultant would prepare preliminary findings
on the condition of the equipment, efficiency of operations,
adequacy   of  maintenance   and  housekeeping,   structural
soundness, problem areas, access to gas service, and survey of
environmental considerations.   The consultant would develop
simplified energy, fuel and water balances, including water
leakage and wastes. The consultant would assess the emissions
of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, particulates and carbon
dioxide from the existing facilities. The consultant would
also advise the owner on the specific type of conversion that
would  be  best  suited  for  a  particular  facility.    The
consultant would investigate and document all regulatory
environmental requirements (local and national) that may have
an  impact  on  the  project  and,  if  necessary,  prepare
preliminary proposals for compliance. Finally, the consultant
would   assist   the   owner   in   assessing   the   relative
attractiveness of the project proposal. This assistance would
include preliminary estimates of the economics of the
conversion project and its potential global benefits.
Step c:     Decide on whether or not to Apply.  Based on its findings the
consultant would discuss with the owner whether the proposed
project appears promising or not.   If the project appeared
promising, the process would move on to Step 'd' below.
Otherwise the consultant would advise the owners not to apply
for the GEF funding.
Step d:     Complete the BOS/GEF Application forms.  The consultant would
assist the owner in completing BOS/GEF application forms.
Step e:     Acquire Preliminary Financing Commitments.   The consultant
would assist the owner, as needed, in exploring preliminary
financing sources for the local counterparts and obtaining
commitments.
Step f:     Complete Application Forms and File Forms with BOS.   The
consultant would assist the owner with these tasks.
Step g:     Prepare Invitations for Proposal for Owner Representative and
Assist with  Contracting.    Upon  approval  of  the  project
proposal by BOS and STAP, the consultant would assist the
owner in: (i) preparing the letter of invitation for proposal
for the services of an owner representative in accordance with
Bank guidelines; (ii) evaluating proposals received; and (iii)
negotiating a contract with the selected owner representative.



Annex 24
Page 3 of 4
5.    The responsibilities of the local expert for an individual project would
be considered to have been satisfactorily completed when the contract with the
boiler owner representative becomes effective.
6.    Funding of the Local Experts for Boiler Owners.   During the project
application phase (Steps 'a' to 'g'), the boiler owner would be responsible for
covering the cost of the local experts.
Members of the Local Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs)
Scope of Work and Ust of Major Tasks and Deliverables
7.    Oblectives.  Members of the local TAGs or local technical advisors (if a
formal TAG has not yet been created) would assist BOS in implementing the GEF
project at the local level, including evaluating project applications for GEF
funding support. They would also assist central BOS office in various project
implementation activities.
8.    Oualifications.  The required qualifications would be identical to those
for the local experts (see para.  3 above).   The Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Foerestry (MoE) would designate a short list
of local experts and STAP would review their qualifications and approve their
nominations as TAG members.
9.    Tvtes of Services Required.  Assistance would generally be provided in the
following areas:
(a)   Assist BOS in preparing guidelines and forms for submitting GEF
project proposals and application forms for funding.
(b)   Assist BOS in appraising sites and facilities proposed for GEF coal-
to-gas  conversion projects  and  funding.    This  tasks  includes
independent inspection and verification of information on the
equipment  and  structures  and  their  condition,  environmental
considerations, availability and condition of utilities, and site
access for facilities proposed for coal-to-gas conversion.   The
local expert/TAG member would review all documents prepared by both
the owner and the local expert (see paras 2-6 above) and, if needed,
provide feedback and request supplemental work from the owner and
the local expert. The local TAG member/expert would use the cost-
effectiveness criterion to advise local BOS offices of the
priorities among conversion project proposals for GEF funding.
(c)   Provide  feedback  to  BOS  and  STAP  on  the  practical  problems
encountered in applying the criteria STAP provided for project
eligibility.



Annex 24
Page 4 of 4
(d)   In the case of projects approved for GEF funding: (i) review and
advise BOS on proposed bidding documents for owner's representative
contracts; (ii) assist BOS in evaluating bid and reviewing contracts
being prepared for the services of owners' representatives; (iii) as
necessary, review and advise on procurement matters; (iv) supervise
installation and, on behalf of BOS, project implementation; (v)
prepare progress reports, completion reports and other reports as
necessary; and (vi) analyze technical and environmental performance
monitoring reports.
(e)   Where asked (this request should be rare) review and evaluate the
performance of one or more of the local experts listed on the roster
for assisting boiler owners in considering and proposing coal-to-gas
conversion projects (see paras 2-6 above).
(f)   Where asked, assist BOS in preparing: (i) informational brochures
designed to assist boiler owners in applying for GEF support for
coal-to-gas projects; and (ii) guidelines and forms for GEF
applications.
(g)   Where asked, provide training programs and/or training materials for
local experts seeking to be placed on the roster of consultants
available to assist boiler owners.
10.   The services of local technical advisors and TAG members would be funded
under the technical assistance component of this project.



Annex 25
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - COAL-TO-GAS CONVERSION PROJECT
Marketing Plan
(Terms of Reference)
Objectives
1.    The purpose of a rmarketing program for the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion
Project is: (i) to make the GEF conversion concept known to potential interested
boiler owners and others who can identify potential coal-to-gas conversions in
small and medium-size heat-only-boilers combined with energy efficiency
improvements throughout the heat supply chain; (ii) to make the GEF energy
efficiency concept -nown to potential interested new residential building owners
and developers and others who can identify potential energy efficiency measures
in new residential buildings; and (iii) to encourage applications. The marketing
plan is intended to identify potential "clients" of the GEF project and the
specific actions, methods, resources and schedules needed to inform them of the
GEF project and its benefits. The team to develop and implement the marketing
plan should include expertise and experience in marketing energy-efficient,
environmentally beneficial solutions to the types of clients and trade ally
groups that would be involved in the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project.
Definition of Tasks
Task One - Identify Primary Potential Clients of the GEF Project
2.    Purpose.   The purpose of this task is to identify the general number and
locations of the major types of owners of small boilers.   This list would
specify, for example, the percentage of prospective boiler conversion candidates
that are publicly owned versus privately owned. Within each category (public and
private) the magnitude of each type of candidate (such as hospitals, schools,
apartment complexes, shopping areas and restaurants) would be identified.
3.    For each major group, any special information channels to be used (such as
periodicals, meetings and conferences) would be identified as would any
characteristics of each key group that might influence its participation in the
program.   For example, who are the key decision makers? does the group have
access money to help invest in the conversion?
4.    Product.  A section in the draft marketing plan would describe the general
types, numbers and locations of potential public and private candidates for the
GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project.
Task Two - Identify Primary Allies for Marketing the GEF Proiect
5.    Purpose.   A number of groups in Poland might be possible "allies" of the
GEF project because their group's objectives either overlap or are compatible
with the objectives of the GEF project. Such groups could be very helpful in



Annex 25
Page 2 of 6
informally marketing the program.   Potential public and private ally groups
include the following:
(a)   Public:   Voivodships and gwinas would see  in the GEF project
opportunities to reduce local pollution and increase local equity at
a low cost locally.
(b)   Private:  Several very different groups of potential allies exist:
(1)   Several  energy,  energy  efficiency  and  conservation,  and
environmental foundations that have overlapping environmental
objectives;
(2)   Boiler manufacturers,  which might see potential large new
markets for themselves through in-country manufacturing and
sale of new high-efficiency gas-fired technologies;
(3)   Manufacturers/distributors of energy products for buildings,
which might see opportunities to increase the market
penetration of their locally made or locally supplied
products, such as insulation, foam insulation sealants, high-
efficiency windows, lights, ballasts, or electric appliances.
6.    Product.   A section in the draft marketing plan would identify potential
public and private sector allies, including the number, size and distribution of
each group. For each group, the section should provide a plan for garnering its
support in marketing the GEF project, including: (a) why each group could become
an ally; and (b) what marketing measures could be used to maximize its
contribution.
Task Three - Develop Marketing Strategies
7.    Purpose.   A number of possible marketing strategies have been identified
and are listed below. The purpose of this task is to develop these strategies
in more detail, including specific plans for accomplishing them.
(a)   Written Advertising: in newspapers, relevant technical magazines and
publications likely to be read by interested groups (such as housing
cooperatives, schools and hospitals):
(1)   Posters:  High-quality visual images promoting the benefits of
the program, with key concepts and addresses, telephone and
fax numbers of points of contact;
(2)   Magazine articles:  A series of pre-written articles or parts
of articles that can be used "as is" or adapted by various
magazines and organizations;
(3)   Newspaper articles:  The same intent as with the previous set



Annex 25
Page 3 of 6
of articles, but for adaption by newspapers in conjunction
with upcoming new events or with local "features." These tend
to have less detail than magazine articles.
The specific target audiences should be identified for each type of
product.   In some cases, the target audience would be reporters,
writers and editors, for example, the environmental editor of each
major newspaper and magazine. Telephone discussions should be held
with these people to determine their needs.
A general description of the program, including the specific
criteria for the inclusion of boilers in the GEF Coal-to-Gas
Conversion Project, would be clearly written and, upon approval by
all parties, made available for distribution to contacts being made
under the marketing plan.
(b)   Radio and TV advertising:   this advertising could include,  for
example, a mini-series on national television.   This approach is
considered an excellent means of making project objectives,
criteria, procedures and benefits widely known throughout Poland.
Existing TV and video material on air pollution program and the like
should be identified and explored for applicable use by the GEF
program marketing effort. A TV series might, for example, consist
of three 15-minute presentations.
(1)   A general discussion of air pollution issues,  the role of
greenhouse gases and the potential impacts on global warming;
(2)   A description of the overall GEF program, and how the GEF
Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project in Poland fits within this
program.   The objectives of the GEF Coal-to-Gas Conversion
Project would be presented, along with its potential impacts
and  benefits.    The  pilot  projects  in  Krakow  would  be
introduced; and
(3)   More detail about the pilot projects in Krakow and a detailed
description of the criteria for qualifying for funding under
the GEF project, along with details of the procedures for
applying;
(c)   Brochure:   prepare a clear,  simple explanation of the project's
objectives and benefits, with typical examples of applicable
projects and a clear discussion of the application criteria and
procedures;
(d)   Meetings with potential allies:  develop strategies for meeting with
potential allies in marketing the project and identifying viable
potential  projects.    The  meetings  can  include  seminars  and
presentation materials. Development of this strategy should address
whether separate materials are needed for different audiences, such



Annex 25
Page 4 of 6
as:
(1)   Voivodships,  gminas  and  district  heating  enterprises:
presentations or seminars on the project would be desirable to
local,   regional   or  national   meetings   of   voivodship
representatives,  district  heating  system  representatives,
inspectorates dealing with control monitoring and approval of
technical installations, and the voivodship environmental
units.   Presentations would also be directed to other key
identified groups at meetings and conferences;
(2)   Manufacturers:  determine how manufacturers perceive the GEF
project.   Specifically, do they see the program as having
market potential for them? For example, a strong side-benefit
of the GEF project would be the development and strengthening
of in-country capabilities for designing and producing
high-efficiency gas-fired production technologies such as
condensing boilers and co-generation systems. The marketing
plan might be implemented with this potential side-benefit in
mind. Typically, but not always, smaller firms are more open
to innovation than the large firms that dominate the existing
markets; and
(3)   Private sector groups:  hold meetings with relevant private
associations such as architects and engineers.
It is suggested that the Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry (MoE) and the Bank Ochrony Srodowiska
SA (BOS) make a list of suggested initiatives for further
development.
8.    Product.  A section in the draft marketing plan would describe each likely
strategy in sufficient detail to permit the strategy to be properly accomplished.
Task Four - Develop Draft Marketing Plan
9.    Purpose.   Based upon the results of the activities in tasks 1, 2 and 3,
a draft marketing plan would be developed, to include a proposed budget and
schedule  for  the  proposed  marketing  activities.    Key  elements  would  be
implemented at the earliest possible time.
10.   The marketing plan might consider  full dissemination of  information
throughout Poland or a focus primarily on selected regions. For example, one
option for marketing might be to prioritize the marketing efforts in the
following stages:
(a)   emphasize the heavily polluted southern industrial region;
(b)   emphasize other heavily polluted areas already identified by MoE;



Annex 25
Page 5 of 6
and
(c)   market the remaining areas of the country.
Rationales for the various approaches should be given.
11.   Product.   A report should enumerate the results of this task, including
the results of Tasks 1, 2 and 3 as separate sections or annexes. In addition,
the results of Tasks 5 and 6, described below, should be included as annexes to
the draft marketing plan report.
Task Five - Develop Drafts of Key Marketing Documents
Task 5.1 - Develop a Draft of a Project Brochure
12.   Purpose.  Develop a draft of the proposed project brochure and test it for
clarity and readability. Important parts of the brochure are clear statements
of project objectives, eligibility criteria, procedures and benefits. The draft
brochure should be revised based upon the results of the tests for clarity and
readability.
13.   Product.   A copy of the draft brochure would be included as an annex to
the marketing plan.
Task 5.2 - Develop draft of TV series
14.   Purpose.    Develop a draft approach to the development of a TV series.
This draft should be prepared early, given the potential importance of this
vehicle for widely explaining the project throughout the country.  The draft
should identify resources, budgets, schedules, quality levels, and the like and
should lay out a draft sequence of presentations.
15.   Product.    The copy of the draft approach should be detailed enough to
obtain early approval for the next development steps.
Task 5.3 - Develop draft of seminar agenda
16.   Purpose.   Develop a draft of a proposed seminar agenda that can be widely
used to introduce material at meetings with various public and private groups.
This effort should assess the level of details such presentations might require.
The draft agendas should indicate the possible audiences for each.
17.   Product.   A copy of the draft agenda(s) would be included as an annex to
the marketing plan.
Task Six - Develop a Database of Contacts
18.   Purpose.  As part of each of the above five tasks, but in particular tasks
1 through 3, develop and maintain a list of contacts by type, including names,



Annex 25
Page 6 of 6
positions,  addresses,  and telephone  and fax numbers.    Use of a PC-based
spreadsheet, database program or personal information manager should suffice.
19.   Product.    A copy of the database of contacts should be available in
hardcopy and diskette form, delivered as a separate annex to the marketing plan.
Task Seven - Independent Evaluation of the Individual GEF Projects
20.   Purpose.    The purpose of this task is to use, at a later stage of GEF
project implementation, testimonials from boiler owners who have gone through the
process and are willing to speak about their experience as beneficiaries of the
GEF fund and as owners/operators of new facilities with innovative and high-
efficiency gas-firing technology. Means for gathering such testimonials such as
a standard questionnaire and individual interviews should be developed. These
testimonials could be complemented with project site visits organized for
national and local policy groups, technical and professional associations, other
GEF applicants/prospective beneficiaries, students, foreign visitors and so on.
For example, completed GEF projects could serve as a training center for
promoting new energy efficiency technologies.
21.   Product.   A section in the draft marketing plan would describe the likely
strategy in sufficient detail to permit the strategy to be properly accomplished.
Budget for Implementing the Marketing Plan
22.   Under the proposed project,  an estimated budget US$150,000 has been
allocated for implementing the marketing plan, including the development of a
nationwide TV promotion program for the GEF project.






I            I                          ~~~~~ ~ ~~                                                              ~        ~~~~~~~~~I  I  I  ¼.I 
14'                        16'                        18'                        20'                        22'                        24'                        26'
RUSSIAN                /PLN
BALTIC  SE-,,A                                                                       FEDERATION               ;               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
I    -u  '-_.  ,,_  9                 COAL-TO-GAS
CONVERSION PROJECT    54-
.GDANSK? 9A                                                                 (   EMISSION OF CARBON DIOXIDE (C°2)
"-' '                                                                        *(4' !;iD  -  /'  \  a   ,  i   >   . _   FROM  COAL-FIRED
1%   U                                      /                      0                                                             N zHEAT-ONLY-BOILERS
TORU)N                                                                           CO2 EMISSION PER VOIVODSHIP, TONS/KM2
( - . '-;                                                                                                                                 3                ~ z 2 0 - 300
0                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~301 500
Z.                                 1'                                                                            I                50!  1000
LU               \S                 .                                        71                       ;                         .         -            '4/ 1000 AND  ABOVE
0    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO2 EMISSION PER VOIVODSH-IP,
I:)                                        ) -ut'  *   "   \<    v  F:,, -      4              WA:                        '  t                  MILLION TONS:
;                                                                     -'             wm4 ,N                                                           0 0 1 552
;4    &--            \?                   / >         >O~                                                                         /' 18  S.  r          163.0
,!.. .;f          w
r> .                     [J                  '. ;    |   tX   ,)   g   .; > r., .N. ,i ,w,   X  §  - O 1 0lAND ABOVE
U                     u              > . r>,>>, / tz / ->t i, <t  ,*  \NATIONAL CAPITAL
- '    %. J    \            *   i )  )         /                                             . -ZESrcrHc w                          -.X  f   r tH   ~   *     VOIVODSHIP BOUNDARIES
. _I" ,  - ?   s   Z  .        -,  -   \   -    -  ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CZECH                                                    '           KXOW/                                    K '                                                                50
CZECH REPUBLIC                           -s  trz o BJELSKO-
BtALA    -
..~~~  r.w.N..~~~~~     * ~0                     5          00        150
-4 -y "th"                                                                                      If                                                                   E-P-  4 
Th rhcoo'dortet ca/ar" deaemmrtioeae and any aurasr me(orna,oon showne -l                  f                                                         (  °     5010I5
m  smp do tlot mg/lpi ott the porlal The World Soak Gnouepteyetodgmaar              -   -                                                
'T5 -Ii.a    ofttp w,. one  tteneIi -at     of-*                                                                                                               KILOmETERS                                ov
6 on she legal start -y  -ertoty ony ede  o  ceptolie
JSLOVAK REPUBLIC                                 ; 
_j                           1W              -   _,           1W3                           20'                             22'                            24'                           26






I
I



I     Printed an recycled paper
ED Printed on recycled paper



