Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28665
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Coal-to-Gas Conversion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated December 19, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER 28665
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
(the Trustee) of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment 
Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B) 
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, 
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance 
with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
a Loan Agreement (3190-POL) dated April 25, 1990 between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic of Poland 
provide for assistance in the environment and environmental management sectors;
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  2
Resolution;
(E)
the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) and the Republic of Poland have entered 
into an agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement) providing a grant in an amount of 
Norwegian Kroner seven million four hundred twenty-five thousand (Nkr 7,425,000) (the 
Norwegian Grant) to assist in financing a portion of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement;
(F)
Norway and the Trustee have entered into an agreement dated March 24, 
1993 (the Cofinancing Agreement) for joint financing of the Project and for the 
administration of the Norwegian Grant by the Trustee; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
     (xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
     (ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
    (iii)
the term "Recipient", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
     (iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Page  3
Conditions, means the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant or both, as 
the context may require;
     (vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account or 
both, as the context may require;
    (vii)
a new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "An 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which further 
disbursement under the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the GET."; 
and
   (viii)
for the purposes of this agreement, the words "the Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient and the Guarantor, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 of the General 
Conditions are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by January 1, 1998 any portion of the GET Grant or 
the Norwegian Grant with respect to Categories (1) and (4) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be uncommitted, the Trustee 
may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GET Grant Account and the 
Norwegian Grant Account, with respect to such amount or portion of 
the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant, respectively. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the GET Grant and 
the Norwegian Grant shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BOS" means Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA (Bank for Environmental 
Protection), entered in the commercial Register of the District Court for the Capital 
City of Warsaw on September 28, 1990, under items No. B 25127;
(b)
"GET Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books 
in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GET Grant is credited;
(c)
"MOE" means the Recipient's Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural 
Resources and Forestry;
(d)
"Norwegian Grant Account" means the account referred to in the 
Cofinancing Agreement;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and BOS, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Sub-Grant Agreement(s)" means the agreement(s) to be entered into 
between BOS and specific beneficiaries, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant; Allocation and Withdrawal of
Proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant and the amount of the Norwegian 
Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and the Norwegian Grant Account, 
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  4
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant.
(b)
Each application for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to 
withdraw funds from both the GET Grant Account and the Norwegian Grant Account, and 
the funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the 
Trustee, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, between the GET Grant and the 
Norwegian Grant in the ratio of 80:20, or such other ratio as shall be determined by 
the Trustee to take into account exchange rate fluctuations.
(c)
If at any time the amount of the GET Grant or of the Norwegian Grant 
shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applications by the Recipient for 
further withdrawals shall be deemed to be for withdrawal of the full amount applied 
for from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account only, as the case may 
be, and the provisions of the Section, except for paragraph (b) above, shall continue 
to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited to such remaining Account 
shall have been withdrawn or cancelled.
(d)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachments. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide or cause to be provided, when 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian 
Grant available to BOS under a Project Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and BOS, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Trustee.
(d)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Project Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant, and except as the 
Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Project Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall establish, no later than one month after the 
date of this Agreement, a Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Trustee, which shall review all project applicants for 
funding under the Project and ensure all activities are designed and carried out in a 
technically sound manner.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall monitor, or cause to be monitored, the 
Page  5
coal-to-gas conversion program (Schedule 2, Part A.1) and the energy efficiency and 
conservation program (Schedule 2, Part A.2) in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account or the Norwegian Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been furnished to the Trustee that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the 
Trustee dispatches to the Recipient notice of effectiveness.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant and 
the Norwegian Grant have been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
Section 5.04. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Ministry for Environmental Protection, Natural 
Resources and Forestry of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry for Environmental Protection,
  Natural Resources and Forestry
Wawelska 52/54
00-922 Warsaw, Poland
Fax:
Telex:
(22) 254-784
812616 (WODORO PL)
817157 (WODORO PL)
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Warsaw, Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By /s/ Stanislaw Zelichowski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Paul Knotter
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
and the Norwegian Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant, the allocation of the amounts of 
the GET Grant and the Norwegian Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
Amount Amount
of the of the
 GET
     Norwegian
Grant
Grant
   % of
    Allocated   Allocated
Expendi-
   (Expressed  (Expressed in
  tures 
in SDR     Norwegian
  to be 
Category
Equivalent)
Kroner)
Financed
(1)
Goods,    11,980,000 5,140,000
100% of for- 
civil works
eign expen-
and materials
ditures;
100% of 
local ex-
penditures 
(ex-fac-
tory); 85% 
of local ex-
penditures
for other
items pro-
cured
locally
(2)
Consultants'    1,660,000
  717,000
100%
services
and training
(3)
Project admin-
410,000
  177,000
100%
istration fees
(4)
Contractual
260,000
  114,000
100%
services
(5)
Unallocated
    2,890,000 1,277,000
TOTAL    17,200,000
7,425,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian 
Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account was used for any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account 
or the Norwegian Grant Account, as the case may be, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to stimulate self-replicable technological and 
institutional changes that would promote coal-to-gas conversion in small- and 
medium-size boilers and induce more energy efficient practices in architectural design 
and operation of new residential buildings, to demonstrate interfuel substitution and 
to improve the overall energy efficiency throughout the heat supply chain (that is, 
heat supply, distribution and transfer systems, end use equipment and user behavior), 
as a means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Page  8
1.
Coal-to-Gas Conversion: Conversion to gas-firing of about 44 coal-fired 
non-industrial boilerhouses, using either high efficiency gas-fired boilers or 
gas-fired cogeneration (combined heat and electric power) systems.
2.
Energy Efficiency and Conservation: increased insulation for walls, ceilings and 
windows, improved efficiency, automation and control of heat installation and energy 
efficient electric appliances for between 670 to 800 new residential building units, 
including increasing energy conservation awareness of residential tenants.
Part B:
Strengthening MOE’s project administration, engineering and management services, 
by, inter alia, the provision of services for project appraisal, supervision of 
implementation, monitoring and marketing, including assistance to BOS, the national 
scientific technical advisory panel, local technical advisory groups, and boiler 
owners.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of this Section, the Bank's prior approval 
will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of 
exten- sion exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid 
validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Trustee, 
with such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
3.
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, contracts for goods and works for 
individual coal-to-gas conversion projects shall be procured on the basis of 
single-responsibility bid packages covering engineering, procurement and construction.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  9
1.
Goods and works for high efficiency heat-only boiler systems may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited inter- national bidding procedures on the 
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof).
2.
(a)
Equipment and materials, such as heat control and measuring equipment and 
weatherization equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three countries 
eligible under the  Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Trustee, subject to paragraph (c) below.
(b)
Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than $50,000 per package may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee, subject to paragraph (c) below.
(c)
The aggregate amount of contracts awarded pursuant to (2)(a) and (2)(b) 
above shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
(d)
Contracts for items the Trustee agrees are of a proprietary nature or 
where compatibility with installed equipment is required may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
(e)
Contractual services, for the environmental monitoring and the marketing 
program, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $370,000, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awarded and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to (i) the first three contracts to be awarded in accordance 
with Part C.1 of this Schedule; (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more under Section I.A of this Schedule; and (iii) each contract awarded 
in accordance with Part C.2(d) and (e) of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Trustee prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect 
of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statement of 
expenditures.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Recipients and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with such modifications as 
Page  10
shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
Recipient shall use other standard forms satisfactory to the Trustee. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less that $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
MOE, through its Department Polityki Ekologicznej (Department of Ecological 
Policy), will be responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the 
Project. MOE will also be responsible for monitoring and reviewing project activities 
and products.
2.
BOS will administer the project activities and will coordinate the activities of 
its central and regional offices to properly accomplish these activities. BOS shall 
designate a Project Director who shall be assigned qualified staff in sufficient 
numbers to carry out its project activities. BOS will: (a) supervise the imple- 
mentation of the pilot projects in Krakow; (b) promote the Project concept nationwide; 
(c) receive and evaluate applications for financing under this Project; (d) submit 
proposals for review and clearance to a national Scientific and Technical Advisory 
Panel; (e) act as syndicator of funds for each individual coal-to-gas conversion 
project determined to be eligible for financing; (f) appraise individual projects, 
supervise their implementation and monitor performance results; and (g) administer and 
channel funds from the project to the prospective beneficiaries through monitorable 
accounts designated for these purposes only.
3.
The Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel shall render a final evaluation of 
both coal-to-gas conversion and energy efficiency projects; and in this capacity it 
will advise BOS with respect to these projects.  It shall consist of five independent 
scientists whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. 
The Panel will consist of three members from the Recipient, other than persons 
affiliated in any manner with MOE, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and 
Water Management, and BOS (an energy audit/end-user energy efficiency specialist, a 
district heat specialist, and an instrumentation and monitoring specialist), and two 
members who will be internationally selected (a gas cogeneration specialist and an 
energy economist). The Panel shall, inter alia, ensure that each individual project 
design considers, inter alia: (a) supplementary energy-efficiency improvements in the 
heat distribution and transfer systems associated with the converted boilers and in 
the existing building supplied by these boilers; (b) connection to main network fuels; 
and (c) integrated monitoring system to assess project performance and environmental 
benefits.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
Page  11
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and the Norwegian Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account or the Norwegian Grant Account, as the case may be, and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian 
Grant Account, as the case may be, and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET 
Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account or the 
Norwegian Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GET Grant Account and Norwegian Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant or the Norwegian Grant, as the case 
may be, allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Page  12
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account or the Norwegian Grant 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
