                                                                                                 LAO PDR:
                                       SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (RMP-2)

                                                                                      Safeguards Policies,
                                                         Social and Environmental Issues Summary
                                                                (UPDATED for RMP-2 in June 2004)


A) INTRODUCTION

The Government of Lao PDR (GOL) has been implementing the Road Maintenance Project
(RMP) with support from the World Bank (WB). Arising from the success of the project, the
Second Road Maintenance Project (RMP-2) has been proposed to expand the work nation-wide
and to focus on the rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and routine maintenance of national and
provincial roads in all 17 Provinces and one Special Zone of the country.

During the preparation and appraisal of RMP-2 by a Bank mission, the management of the
environmental and social impacts of the first RMP was reviewed with the objective of ensuring
improved performance in these key areas in RMP-2. The main areas of concern observed during
civil works undertaken in RMP1 included the following: the lack of supervisory budget for
environmental and social impact monitoring; the limited capacity of the implementing units
responsible for social and environmental performance (ESD and DTCPC);                                         potential adverse
impacts in sensitive areas; and compliance performance of contractors, especially in the areas of
road safety, dust, disposal of wastes, location and treatment of borrow pits/quarries, and
consultation with local communities. Other concerns noted are related to the post-maintenance
phase of the project and include dust re-suspension, road safety, community participation, and
encroachment of road right-of-way.

To address these concerns, the Ministry of Communication, Transportation, Post and Construction
(MCPCT), assisted by consultants, has conducted an initial environmental evaluation (IEE) for
RMP-2 and prepared a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) report presenting the findings
of the IEE and a strategic plan to address key issues. The Environmental Guidelines for Road
Projects (EGRP) prepared in 1999, which have been applied to RMP-1, have also been reviewed
and updated (see Section C below). Although new adverse impacts are generally not expected to
arise from most work undertaken in RMP-2, the Ministry is also proposing an additional
precautionary measure in the form of a safeguard screening framework (see ESSF in Section C) that
would be applied to all the civil work subprojects for RMP-2. The EGRP and the RCG have been
reviewed and will become an integral part of the new screening procedure. Finally the Ethnic
Minority Development Policy (EMDP) framework has been developed for RMP-2 (see Section B
below), and this will be applied where appropriate.

To ensure consistency of the Safeguard Policies to be applied in RMP-2, the Safeguard Policies
proposed and publicly announced in late February 2004 have been updated as shown below. The
updated Safeguard Policies for RMP-2 now comprise the ESSF, the updated EGRP, the RCG, and
the EMDP. These documents will be publicly disclosed (both in English and Lao languages) before
June 14, 2004.




N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc                       1

B) SOCIAL ASPECTS

1. Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The Project is not expected to cause land acquisition nor resettlement. However, minor
infrastructure or the use of some areas as deposits may result in unexpected low-level
impacts/damages to parcels of land or buildings. Road maintenance activities may also require the
temporary occupation of plots or may cause crops or income losses to settlers along the roads.

1.1 Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines
In order to ensure that                                    impacts are compensated in compliance with World Bank policy,
Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines (RCG) specifying eligibility and entitlement principles
have been prepared based on a Draft decree by the Prime Minister prepared by the national
environmental protection agency (STEA). The RCG fully comply with OP/BP 4.12 and reflect Lao
laws and regulations. The RCG text (see Attachment 1) will be translated in Lao and distributed as
part of the Operations Manual to the local agencies responsible for the maintenance works .

1.2 Implementation
The compensation of impacts will be implemented and managed by the Districts. The Environment
and Social Division (ESD) of the Department of Roads will have a supervisory role and will ensure
that the provisions contained in the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines are implemented.

1.3 Public Information and Consultation
MCTPC will ensure that all districts and villages are properly and timely informed of the road
maintenance activities to be carried out. MCTPC will also ensure that the provisions of the RCG are
effectively disclosed to the population living along the roads targeted by the project by means of a
public information campaign. All communities along the roads targeted by the project will be
consulted by means of ad hoc meetings regarding their priorities and needs in matters of road
maintenance.

1.4 Complaints and Grievances
Complaints and grievances at the local administrative level will be dealt with by an independent
committee including leading members of the local communities. In case complaint and grievances
issues are appealed they will be dealt with in the first instance by the district administration and in
the second instance by the provincial authorities. Project affected persons will be exempted from
all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to the grievance redress procedures.

1.5 Voluntary Contributions
Where local communities elect to make voluntary contribution of affected land without
compensation, this should be acceptable only for marginal impacts (partial impact on land without
causing any displacement or impact on structures, and with remaining assets viable for continued
use) and only when benefits to affected people can be assured. The process of consultation with
potential contributors should, be conducted in an open and transparent manner by district officials
and decisions for 'voluntary' contributions should be based on the 'informed choice' of affected
people. People who elect to make voluntary contributions must be informed of their rights to
compensation, and the process and decisions must be documented by the district authorities




N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc                2

2. Impact on Ethnic Minorities
The project is not expected to generate adverse impacts on ethnic minorities living alongside the
roads or in the vicinity of the project area. The experience from provinces during RMP1 generally
reflects the fact that project impacts are not ethnic group-specific but relate to all communities in
the project area. However, given the nationwide coverage of RMP-2 and in view of the large
presence of ethnic minority communities in parts of the country where the project works will be
undertaken, an Ethnic Minorities Development Policy (EMDP) framework has been prepared (see
Attachment 2) as required by the Bank's OD 4.20.

2.1 Ethnic Minorities Development Policy Framework
The broad objective of the EMDP is to ensure that ethnic minority communities do not suffer
adverse effects during the project operations and that they receive culturally compatible social and
economic benefits. As part of the framework, the EMDP includes mitigation measures and
assistance aimed at institutional strengthening and capacity building of these communities. The
framework also specifies community participation and consultation and grievance redress
mechanisms that are developed in culturally appropriate ways.

2.2 Ethnic Minorities Action Plan
In conformity with OD 4.20, the EMDP will guide the preparation of separate and free-standing
Ethnic Minorities Action Plans (EMAP) as appropriate to meet the needs of the Bank's policy on
Indigenous Peoples.

C. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

1. Potential Negative Impacts and Safeguard Policies
Road maintenance operations may potentially affect the environment in a number of ways. For
example, environmental concerns can stem initially from poor road design and planning,
mobilization of construction crews, construction camp maintenance, storage and handling of wastes
and hazardous materials, location of borrow pits and quarry sites, associated earthworks, and
drainage design. Poorly executed maintenance activities may create localized soil erosion problems
affecting streams or other water bodies; lack of clear plans for environmental management will
create opportunities for inappropriate disposal of solid waste materials and could lead to lack of
controls of noise and dust which can create a nuisance for individuals and communities. Better
maintained roads could lead to increased accessibility in remote areas thus increasing the potential
for uncontrolled resource extraction and land conversion along the road sides. Concern over such
issues are heightened in areas where roads pass through protected areas or other sites of a sensitive
ecological nature such as wetlands, streams or forest areas.

The alternative to road maintenance program is basically a no maintenance approach. This scenario
also has adverse environmental implications. Lack of maintenance could generate unstable road
bed conditions leading to localized erosion and drainage problems. In areas of high rainfall and
geologic instability, these risks can be substantial. Road maintenance programs also provide an
opportunity to address some basic design problems which can create drainage and erosion
problems.

1.1 Environmental Category and Justification
The RMP-2 is an expansion of the RMP1 and no new major environmental issues are anticipated.
RMP1 experience has suggested that most of the potential impacts during maintenance works will

N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc    3

be localized, temporary, and can be mitigated through the application of the EGRP and the RCG
adopted in the RMP-1. The maintenance program will be on the existing roads and the incremental
induced effects will be minimal. No new road construction will be undertaken under RMP-2 and the
ESSD screening framework (Section C) will ensure that appropriate actions will be undertaken for
the subprojects involving sensitive areas, land acquisition, or indigenous people.

1.2 Safeguards Arrangements under RMP-2
Based on the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), maintenance activities to be funded under
the project will be screened using the screening criteria specified in the ESSF by the subproject
proponent in close consultation with DOR's environmental management unit (ESD). This is to
ensure that the proposed maintenance activities will have no adverse effect on a number of
environmental (and social) areas of concern such as protected areas or other sensitive sites which
fall outside of protected status. To ensure appropriate safeguard measures are put in place, the
EGRP (1999) has been updated (see Attachment 3) to facilitate effective application of the
guidelines. Due consideration was given to improve consultation and information disclosure, ensure
close supervision and monitoring of the contractor's performance, and address the impacts after
maintenance operations. Specific guidelines and/or manuals, including monitoring/reporting
requirements and specific criteria for maintenance operations in sensitive areas (ecologically and
socially), will be developed. Training on safeguard operations for central and provincial staff and
contractors will also be provided, This includes increasing awareness and capacity building for
senior management. Results of the safeguard screening and application of the guidelines and
frameworks will be included in the semi-annual report.

The EGRP during the construction phase will form the basis of contractual obligations to be carried
out by road maintenance crews. Contracts for maintenance will include specific clauses for
environmental protection based on the guidelines. Supervision and monitoring of environmental
performance will be carried out in the field by the project supervising engineer with assistance from
ESD. Periodic audits will also be carried out during regular Bank supervision missions. The ESD of
DOR will also prepare periodic (semi-annual) reports on the adherence to environmental measures
under the project.

2. Institutional Capacity for Environmental Safeguards
MCTPC recognizes the importance of environmental protection and has made basic commitments
to addressing environmental concerns. In 2001, an Environmental and Social Division (ESD) was
formally created in DOR to assist with project screening and to evaluate environmental risks of
proposed projects. In 2003, a ministerial regulation on EA procedure was established and ESD is
currently developing guidelines and procedures to facilitate effective execution of this regulation.
Technical assistance has been provided to ESD and the national environmental agency (STEA) in
the preparation of the guidelines related to the EIA process, including consultation and training. At
national level, the Government is currently processing enactment of the Resettlement and
Compensation Guidelines, including a policy to address issues related to ethnic minorities, to be
part of the body of national regulations.

Capacity enhancement at local level on the environmental and social safeguards work in all 17
provinces represents a substantial challenge in the new phase of the RPM2 program. There is also
need to ensure that the environmental and social requirements are fully integrated into DOR's
operational procedures. It is the responsibility of MCTPC (not only ESD) to ensure effective
implementation of potential negative impacts at all stages (planning and pre-construction,

N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc    4

construction, operations). To ensure effective implementation of safeguards for RMP-2, technical
assistance will be provided to ESD and DCTPC to strengthen: (i) supervision and monitoring of
safeguard compliance; (ii) consultation with local communities and authorities; (iii) mainstreaming
of safeguards into DOR operations, and (iv) knowledge related to construction resource mapping,
community inventory in the road right-of-way, and related social activities.

3. Public disclosure
The updated Safeguard Policies as well as the SEA report will be disclosed (both in English and
Laos) to the public in Vientiene (at MCTPC's office and the World Bank office) as well as in
MCTCP's provincial offices (i.e. DTCPC offices) by June 14, 2004.

D.       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK ­(ESSF)

Objectives. The ESSF aims to ensure that (a) the Project activities do not create or result in serious
adverse impacts on the local community and environment, (b) the mitigation plan is carried out
effectively, and (c) possible complaints from the local government authorities and community are
minimized. The ESSF has been developed based on the lessons learned during supervision of RMP1
and it may be modified or revised when necessary with close consultation with the Bank.

Strategies. To achieve these objectives, the following actions will be undertaken:
       · All proposed subprojects will be screened by ESD through the screening process described
            below and the results will be documented and properly kept for review by the Bank.

       · Appropriate mitigation measures will be included in the bidding document (BD) and
            contract document (CD); compliance with these measures will be monitored, and the results
            will be documented and properly kept for review by the Bank.
       · ESD will supervise and monitor the overall activities and prepare a semi-annual report on
            the application of the EGRP and RCG guidelines and other frameworks and action plans
            during the planning, design, and construction phase of the project. ESD will also develop
            the reporting requirements and procedures to ensure compliance of the contractors; conduct
            public consultation and public awareness programs, and carry out periodic training for field
            engineers and contractors as appropriate. A semi-annual report on the implementation of the
            guidelines will be submitted to the Bank.

Assumptions. The screening is based on the assumptions described below. If this is not the case,
the Bank will be informed and consulted.
       · The main civil works to be carried out under RMP2 will be limited to activities typically
            defined as routine and periodic maintenance (resurfacing and bridge repairs; flood repairs or
            emergency maintenance; regular upkeep of safety features and road signs, etc.) and small
            rehabilitation works to strengthen the road, repair structural defects, restore the road to its
            initial condition, make small changes or improvements to alignment, and small construction
            of drainage and footpaths. If large-scale rehabilitation works are involved, DOR will inform
            the Bank before proceeding with the contract.

       · The works will be carried out within the existing right of way (ROW) and will not involve
            relocation and land acquisition. If land acquisition and relocation is needed, the Bank will be
            informed, and the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines (RCG) will be applied.


N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc    5

       · The project-related impacts are site specific; few of the effects are irreversible; and
            appropriate mitigation measures can be developed and implemented by the contractors and
            MCTPC.

Screening procedures.                              The screening process is not intended to prohibit DOR from carrying out
maintenance-related works in sensitive areas but is meant to ensure that proper mitigation measures
are prepared and carried out effectively to avoid adverse impacts on the affected population, natural
environment and cultural heritage. If the subproject is located in or near protected areas or other
critical habitats or cultural property, an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for the subproject
will be prepared and carried out in close cooperation with ESD and other concerned agencies and in
consultation with the Bank. The civil works contracts for office building and construction of weigh
stations will also be subject to this screening. The ESSF will be conducted by the subproject
administrator (RAD, LAD, DTCPC, etc.) during the screening and preparation of the Annual Work
Plan (AWP). Steps and actions for the screening are presented in Table 1.

Key steps of the ESSF is shown in Figure 1.

Table 1. Screening Process for Each Subproject

Screening check list                                                              Yes            Actions to be undertaken

Involves                   land                  acquisition, Y                                  Planning/Project engineer will consult ESD and
relocation, indirect loss of access                                                              apply RCG, EMDP.           If the impacts are
and assets, and has adverse impacts                                                              significant, ESD seeks Bank clearance before
on ethnic minorities                                                                             selection    of    the   subproject.   Extensive
                                                                                                 consultation with affected population is expected
                                                                                                 during the planning and implementation

Scale of the civil works is larger Y                                                             Consult ESD to apply appropriate guidelines. If
than           those                identified                       for                         the impacts are significant, ESD seeks Bank
maintenance                   or        involves                   new                           clearance before selection of the subproject. If
construction                                                                                     new road construction is required, EA study will
                                                                                                 be required and Bank clearance will be necessary

The project site is located near Y                                                               Planning/Project engineer will consult ESD and
villages,           residential,                    or          other                            include appropriate mitigation measures during
sensitive             areas             (schools                    and                          planning and design stages. DOR and ESD will
hospitals) and dust and road safety                                                              establish criteria and technology appropriate for
issues will significantly affect the                                                             dust   suppression    in  the   sensitive  areas.
human health/life                                                                                {preparation of action plan to mitigate impacts
                                                                                                 and consultation with local authority and
                                                                                                 communities will be necessary).          Periodic
                                                                                                 monitoring of air quality, noise level, and
                                                                                                 opinions of local authority/community may be
                                                                                                 necessary. The issues and actions will be
                                                                                                 included in the EMP and recorded in the progress


N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc                                             6

Screening check list                                                              Yes            Actions to be undertaken

                                                                                                 report and/or the semi-annual report.

The project site is located in or less Y                                                         Planning/Project engineer will consult ESD to
than 50 m away from protected                                                                    ensure that the mitigation measures are adequate
areas, areas of cultural heritages;                                                              to address the issues. Use of borrow pits and
or involves the use of large                                                                     quarry sites and operation of asphalt plants in the
amounts of toxic chemicals or                                                                    sensitive areas must be prohibited. Specific
herbicides.                                                                                      requirements may be required to minimize the
                                                                                                 potential impacts.

                                                                                                 A standard clause should be included in all
                                                                                                 construction contract regarding the procedures to
                                                                                                 be followed in the event culturally significant
                                                                                                 sites are found.

Large amount of materials will be Y                                                              Planning/Design engineer will consult ESD with
needed                                                                                           respect to locations and practices of material
                                                                                                 excavation.

Fully comply with the assumptions Y                                                              MCTPC (subproject administrator) prepares an
specified above and a contractor                                                                 action plan to mitigate potential impacts of the
will be hired to carry out the works                                                             subproject in line with the EGRP and disclose the
                                                                                                 plan to the public (consultation with local
                                                                                                 authority and local community is encouraged).
                                                                                                 Endorsement of ESD will be necessary.

                                                                                                 MCTPC            includes    the   environmental
                                                                                                 requirements in the bidding/contract document
                                                                                                 and ensures compliance of the contractors during
                                                                                                 the bidding process.

                                                                                                 Field   engineers   will   closely  monitor    the
                                                                                                 contractor performance and document it in the
                                                                                                 supervision/progress report.    Recommendations
                                                                                                 that are useful to increase efficiency and
                                                                                                 effectiveness of the mitigation plan should be
                                                                                                 provided.

                                                                                                 ESD will periodically review the supervision
                                                                                                 report,   periodically   inspect  the   contractor
                                                                                                 performance, conduct public consultation, and
                                                                                                 prepare a semi annual report to send to the Bank.

*If No go to next step



N:\LAO PDR\RMP2\Env and social\SEA\appendix 1 sea part A\Final Safeguards Policies (updated) June5.doc                                               7

                                      Attachment 1.

 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION GUIDELINES (RCG) FOR RMP-2


PART I. INTRODUCTION

1. Background

1.1 Development projects, even when undertaken in the public interest, have social
impacts and associated costs on individual persons, communities, and the environment.
Said adverse social impacts may be any or a combination of the following: loss of abode,
loss of fixed assets, loss of income and/or employment, displacement, separation of
family members, disintegration of communities, etc. These impacts may be marginal or
severe and/or irreparable. Yet, these adverse social impacts are often borne by project-
affected persons (APs) not by their own wish but involuntarily.

1.2 The resettlement efforts to mitigate adverse social impacts of development projects
need to be carried out within an overall legal framework following clearly defined
resettlement principles and operational procedures. Additionally, the Lao PDR's policy
on poverty reduction needs to be integrated into resettlement efforts, with special
attention to vulnerable groups. In view of the Government's efforts to give impetus to its
development efforts and to deal with adverse social impacts and implementation
problems, there is an urgent need for a national policy on involuntary resettlement and
compensation with an aim to: (i) integrate social dimensions in development projects, (ii)
address measures to mitigate adverse social impacts with a particular focus on vulnerable
groups, and (iii) have a comprehensive approach to address social issues.

1.3 Although land acquisition and relocation are not expected in the Road Maintenance
Program (RMP), as a safeguard measure, a Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines
(RCG) was prepared and applied successfully in RMP-1. The RCG will be applied in
RMP-2 and is considered as an integral part of the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Framework (ESSF).

2. Definitions

2.1 Definitions of key terms are provided as follows:

        a) Compensation. Compensation means payment in cash or in kind for an asset to
        be acquired or affected. by a project at replacement cost.

        b) Cut-off Date. 'Cut-off date' is the date prior to which the occupation or use of
        the project area makes residents/users of the project area eligible to be categorized
        as affected persons. In many projects, the cut-off date coincides with the
        commencement of the census of affected persons within the project area

boundaries. Persons not covered in the census are not eligible for compensation
and other entitlements.

c) Entitlements. Range of measures comprising compensation, income
rehabilitation assistance, transfer assistance, income substitution, and relocation,
which are due to, affected people, depending on the type and degree of their
losses. to restore their economic and social base.

d)   Implementing Agency (or Project Proponent/Project Authority/Executing
Agency) is the divisions/offices/units of the Ministry of Communication,
Transportation, Post and Construction (MCTPC) who is responsible for planning,
design and implementation of a development project.

e) Land Acquisition means the process whereby a person is compelled by a
public agency to alienate all or part of the land a person owns or possesses, to the
ownership and possession of that agency, for a public purpose in return for
compensation.

f) Project Affected Person (PAP/AP) includes any person or persons, household
(sometimes referred to as project affected family), a firm, or a private or public
institution who, in the context of acquisition, or repossession, of assets or change
in land use, as of the cut-off date, on account of the execution of a development
project, or any of its subcomponents or part, would have their:

     i)    Standard of living adversely affected;
     ii)   Right, title or interest in all or any part of a house, land (including
           residential, commercial, agricultural, plantations, forest and grazing
           land) or any other moveable or fixed assets acquired or possessed, in
           full or in part, permanently or temporarily adversely affected: or
     iii)  Business, occupation, place of work, residence, habitat or access to
           forest or community resources adversely affected, with or without
           displacement.

AP means persons or affected household and consists of all members of a
household residing under one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who
are adversely affected by a project or any of its components. For resettlement
purposes, affected persons will be considered as members of affected households.

g) Rehabilitation means assistance provided to APs seriously affected due to the
loss of productive assets, incomes, employment or sources of living, to
supplement payment of compensation for acquired assets in order to improve, or
at least achieve full restoration of living standards and quality of life to pre-
project level.

h) Relocation means the physical shifting of an AP from his/her pre-project place
of residence, place of work or business premises.

        i) Replacement Cost is the amount needed to replace an asset and is the
        value determined, as compensation for Agricultural and the pre-project or
        pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value of land of equal
        productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus
        the cost of preparing the land to levels similar to those of the affected land,
        plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes;

        ii) Land in urban areas, it is the pre-displacement market value of land of
        equal size and use, with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities
        and services and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost
        of any registration and transfer taxes,

        iii) Houses and other related structures based on current market prices of
        materials, transportation of material to construction site, cost of labor and
        contractor's fee, and cost of any registration and transfer taxes. In
        determining replacement cost, depreciation of the assets and value of
        salvaged building materials are not taken into account and no deductions
        are made for the value of benefits to be derived from the project,

        iv) Crops, trees and other perennials based on current market value; and

        v) Other assets (i.e. income, cultural, aesthetic) based on replacement cost
        or cost of mitigating measures.

j) Resettlement refers to all measures taken by the Project Proponent to mitigate
any and all adverse social impacts of a project on the APs, including
compensation for lost assets and incomes and the provision of other entitlements,
income restoration assistance, and relocation, as needed.

k) Social Assessment (SA) or Social Impact Assessment (SIA). SA or SIA is a
framework for incorporating social analysis and participatory process in project
design and implementation.

l) Vulnerable groups. These are distinct groups of people who might suffer
disproportionately or face the risk of being marginalized from the effects of
resettlement and specifically include: (i) female headed households with
dependents, (ii) disabled household heads, (iii) households falling under the
generally accepted indicator for poverty, (iv) elderly households with no means of
support and landlessness, (v) households without security of tenure, and (vi)
ethnic minorities.

PART II. SCOPE, ELIGIBILITY & LEGAL FRAMEWORK

3. Scope of the Policy
The Policy would be applicable to all development projects carried out by public and
private sector, regardless of funding sources, resulting in acquisition, of land and/or other
assets, change in land use and restriction on access to community resources affecting
community livelihood and income sources.

4. Eligibility.
All people residing, cultivating or making a living within the area to be acquired for a
project as of the formally recognized cut-off date should be considered as project affected
persons (APs) for purposes of entitlements to compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation assistance in accordance with the policy, and lack of legal title to the land
or   structure   affected   by    project  should    not    bar  any     person   for   such
entitlements/assistance.

5. Legal Framework.
The Policy is based on the following laws and decrees that provides legal framework for
resettlement:

        · The Constitution of the Lao PDR The Land Law No. 01/97 SPS, dated 12
            April 1997.
        · The Forestry Law No. 01/96, dated 11 October 1996.
        · The Water and Water Resources Law No. 02/96, dated 11 October 1996.
        · The Environmental Protection Law No. 02/99 SPS, dated 3 April 1999.
        · The Electricity Law No. 02/97 SPS, dated 12 April 1997.
        · The Road Law No. 04/99 SPS, dated 03 April 1999.
        · The Mineral Resources Law (April 1997).
        · The Town Planning Law No. 03/99 SPS, dated 03 April 1999.
        · Regulation 1266/95 of MCTPC on Valuation of Vehicles, Houses, Built
            Structures and Household Facilities for Government Employees and Personnel


PART III OBJECTIVES

6. Objectives
The objectives of the Policy include the following:

        · Projects are designed so that resettlement is avoided or, if unavoidable,
            minimized by examining all design options available to the project and the
            losses incurred by affected people are redressed such that APs share project
            benefits, assisted to develop their economic, social and cultural potential in
            order to improve or at least restore their incomes and living standards to pre-
            project levels and are not worse off than they would have been without the
            project.

         · Attention is paid to affected ethnic minority and other vulnerable groups,
            especially the poor, in order to enhance their future prospects and for poverty
            alleviation.
         · The entire resettlement process is carried out through a meaningful
            involvement of project affected communities, and their existing social and
            cultural institutions are supported to the greatest extent feasible.
         · Resettlement is envisioned and carried out as an integral part of the
            development project.

PART IV. COMPENSATION AND ENTITLEMENTS.

7. Compensation Principles

7.1 APs will be provided with compensation for their lost assets affected in full or in part,
at full replacement cost.

7.2 Where significantly large or entire land holding affected by a project, the general
mechanism for compensation for affected agriculture, residential or commercial land will
be through provision of "land for land" arrangements of equivalent size and productivity
and at location acceptable to the AP. In case suitable land is not available, and at
informed request of the AP cash compensation at current market value will be provided
in addition to the assistance for relocation. However, when the portion of the land to be
lost represents 20% or less of the total area of the landholding with remaining area viable
for continued use, where the livelihood is not land-based, cash compensation a t full
replacement value for the affected portion will be provided. In cases where only part of
the land holding is affected but the remaining land becomes economically unviable, the
AP will be entitled to surrender the entire holding and to compensation for entire holding
at full replacement value, or land-for-land option.

7.3 If the house or structure is only partially being affected by the Project and the
remaining structure is rendered unviable or in area less than the minimum house size
under the prevailing standards, the AP will be entitled to surrender the entire structure
and to compensation for the entire structure at full replacement cost without depreciation
or deductions for salvaged material.

7.4 In case of APs affected by partial loss of structures and the remaining structures are
viable for continued use, they will be entitled to assistance in cash or material for
restoration of the remaining structure in addition to the compensation at replacement cost
for affected portion.

7.5 APs whose land or assets are temporarily taken by the works under the project will be
fully compensated for their net loss of income, damaged assets, crops and trees, as the
case may be. Assets which are only temporarily affected or inoperable, will be
compensated at 10% of the replacement cost of affected assets provided that such assets
or properties are required by the project for a maximum of 6 months. In case the assets
are required by the project for periods longer than six months, the amount of

compensation should be negotiated with the owner of said property, and the project shall
insure that the land and structures are returned in its pre-project state.

7.6 Tenants, who have leased a house / structures for residential or other purposes and
affected by the project, will be provided with a cash assistance equivalent to three months
M1 allowance and, expenses to cover for other losses, and will be assisted in finding
aiterne6 rental accommodation.

7.7 APs without any legal title or ownership right to the affected land and assets they
occupy should be compensated for their lost assets at replacement cost. If needed such
APs wig b provided additional assistance to ensure that they are able to improve their
household income levels and are not worse-off due to the project.

7.8 All previous claims and unresolved issues related to tenure status and ownership of
land art other assets on each sub-project or components will be resolved prior to initiating
any new fart acquisition measures on the respective sub-project or component.

8. Other Assistance During Relocation and Transition Period

8.1 APs displaced and severely affected due to the loss of incomes and means of
livelihood would be provided with a food allowance and suitable development assistance
after displacement during the transition period until they are able to restore their incomes
a livelihood standards or reach the targeted level of household incomes on a sustainable
basis.

8.2 All displaced persons will be given a transport allowance or a assisted in transfer to
the resettlement site or their choice of relocation, as the case may be.

8.3 In the case of loss of business, APs will be provided with a special allowance for the
loss pf business-income during the transition period.

9. Economic Rehabilitation

9.1 All APs severely affected by the project due to the loss of productive assets
(agricultural. commercial or industrial land), means of livelihood, incomes, employment
or businesses, and access to community resources will be entitled to rehabilitation
measures including income restoration programs, training to improve skills and other
assistance for self-employment over and above their entitlements for compensation and
other allowances, enabling them to attain, at a minimum, pre-project livelihood levels on
sustainable basis.

9.2 These rehabilitation measures would specifically focus on vulnerable groups such as
households without tenure security o r with weak tenure status, female-headed
households, disabled-headed households, itinerant workers, households falling below the
national poverty line or those severely affected by the project and are likely to fall below
the poverty line, elderly households with no means of support and landless households.

Adequate assistance, in addition to compensation for affected assets and other
allowances, should be provided such that t heir economic and social w ell-being c an b e
improved and to enable such A Ps achieve household income targets set above the
national poverty line. At least 30% of such rehabilitation assistance measures will be
reserved for women.

9.3 For displaced persons whose land-based livelihood are affected due to the project,
preference should be given to land-based resettlement strategies, or where land is not
available, non-land-based options built around opportunities for employment or self
employment in addition to cash compensation for lost assets.

10. Community Services and Resources

10.1 In cases community facilities and infrastructure such as schools, factories, water
resources, roads, sewage system or electrical supply is damaged due to the project, the
project developers will ensure that these would be restored or repaired as the case may
be, at no cost to the community.

10.2 Any acquisition of, or restriction on access to resources owned or managed by
affected community as a common property should be mitigated by arrangements ensuring
access to improved or at least equivalent resources on a continuing basis,

11. Local Culture & Practices

11.1 Local cultural and religious properties, practices and beliefs should be respected and
to the extent possible preserved.

11.2 Where local communities elect to make voluntary contribution of affected land
without compensation in accordance with traditions practices, this should be acceptable
only for marginal impacts (partial impact on land without causing any displacement or
impact on structures, and with remaining assets viable for continued use) and only when
direct benefits to affected people can be assured. The process of consultation with APs
should, be conducted in an open and transparent manner by district officials of MCTPC
and decisions for 'voluntary' contribution should be based on 'informed choice' of affected
people. People who elect to make voluntary contributions must be informed of their
rights to compensation, and the process and decisions must be documented by the
provincial DCTPC.

12. Ethnic Group Issues

12.1 Where in a project cultural minorities are affected, the mitigation measures and
social and economic benefits they receive to improve their status would be in harmony
with their cultural preferences and would be decided in consultation with affected
communities. The mitigation measures and assistance should also include institutions
strengthening and capacity building of tribal elders, and community groups working on
resettlement activities.

12.2 Community participation and consultation framework and grievance redress
mechanism for ethnic minority groups should be developed in culturally appropriate
ways, familiar to the affected community, in consultation with their leader-"s and in close
collaboration with local officials.

13.     Resettlement Linked to Project
Resettlement transition period should be minimized and the acquisition of assets,
compensation payment in full, resettlement and rehabilitation activities for a
segment/section or phase (except where long-term rehabilitation measures such as
vocations training or other measures recommended) should be completed prior to the
initiation of construction work under the respective segment/section or phase thereof.


PART V. RESETTLEMENT SITE DEVELOPMENT

14. Resettlement Site Development
14.1 All relocating persons should be provided with suitable housing or developed house-
lots, shop-lots as necessary, agricultural sites of sufficient size with productive potential
and locations advantages better or at least equivalent to the old site. Replacement
agricultural land, house/business plot will be as close as possible to the land that was lost
and/or acceptable to the APs.6

14.2 The replacement land for residential resettlement will be provided in fixed plot sizes
according to the prevailing standards and planning practices. However, if the lost land of
AP is in size larger than the plot sizes for relocation, a cash compensation to cover the
difference of the area will be given to the AP.

14.3 All replacement land for agriculture, residential and businesses will be provided
with secured tenure status and without any additional cost, sales taxes, fee, and surcharge
to the APs at the time of transfer. Land titles for replacement land shall be issued in the
joint names of husband and wife.

14.4 Attention should be paid to ensure that resettlement site development does not cause
any adverse environmental impacts to the surrounding areas. All resettlement sites for
relocation of displaced persons will be provided with adequate access to public facilities
and services, income earning opportunities and market.

14.5 Where relocation is considered necessary, the 'host' community would also be
entitled to compensation and other assistance similar to the project affected persons.
Infrastructure and public services provided to the host community as necessary to
improve, restore, or maintain accessibility would be the same level as provided for the
displaced persons.

PART VI        PUBLIC PARTICIPATION & CONSULTATION

15. Public Participation and Consultation
The resettlement process should be carried out in a participatory manner, in which
stakeholder concerns are taken into account at all stages of the project cycle, particularly
during the planning and implementation phases of land acquisition, valuation and
resettlement process. APs should be fully informed of the provisions of the policy, their
entitlements to compensation for their lost assets, allowances and other assistance as
provided for in the Policy.

16. Grievance Redress Mechanism
16.1 There should be effective mechanisms in place for hearing and grievance redress
during the resettlement planning and implementation in a project.

16.2 The GoL PDR at the request of the Project authorities will establish a Grievance
Redress Committee (GRC) for each district to address complaints and grievances
pertaining to land acquisition, compensation and resettlement and to pre-empt all
disagreements being referred to courts. The committee will consist of:

        i)    District official
        ii)   Village heads
        iii)  Representative of the APs, other than the village head;
        iv)   Village elders or representatives of MO;
        v)    Project official.

16.3 Grievances related to any aspect of the project or sub-project will be handled
through consultations conducted in a transparent manner and aimed at resolving matters
through consensus at the project level before complainants forward these to higher level
and ultimately to the court of law. The Project Authorities will document all complaints
received in writing (or written when received verbally) from the APs.7

16.4 APs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred i n pursuant t o
the grievance redress procedures including cases of complaints taken to the court of law.

PART VII. REPORTING-AND DOCUMENTATIONIT.

17. Reporting and Documentation
The Project Proponents would carry out necessary studies and field investigations and
prepare following required reports and documents for submission to the respective
ministry and the Regulatory Agency for review and approval.

17.1 Initial Social Assessment (ISA) and Land Acquisition Assessment
Project Proponents will carry out necessary field investigations for ISA, either as part of
the IEE or as a standalone exercise, in order to identify relevant social issues, likely

impacts and the types of groups of people likely to be affected by the project. The report
on ISA should be submitted by project proponents to the relevant ministry (in the case of
private sector developer) and to the Regulatory Agency for review and approval prior to
proceeding for further studies.

17.2 Social (Impact) Assessment
In major projects with likely indirect and economic impacts on communities, within or in
the vicinity of project areas, project proponents will conduct social assessment at the pre-
feasibility or feasibility stage of the project-preparation, as the case maybe, to address
indirect social and economic impacts using appropriate mitigation measures with special
attention paid to vulnerable groups, including ethnic minority groups. The report on
social assessment should be prepared by Project Proponents for submission to the
Regulatory Agency and the World Bank for review and approval to facilitate project
process.

17.3 Resettlement Plans
17.3.1 Land Acquisition and Compensation Report
In case the impacts of the project are mostly marginal such that less than 200 persons
(about 40-50 families) are affected by the project either marginally or with limited
displacement, a Land Acquisition and Compensation Report for each project, sub-project,
or component will be prepared by Project Proponents and submitted to the Regulatory
Agency and the World Bank for review and approval. Compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation activities will only commence after the Report is found acceptable to the
Regulatory Agency and the World Bank.

17.3.2 Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs)
In case the impacts of the project are severe, regardless of number of affected people or
where more than 200 people (40-50 families) are affected by the Project, its component
or sub-project; a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for each component or sub-project will
be prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Policy. Project proponents will
submit the required RAP to the World Bank for review and approval. Compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation activities will only commence after the Report is found
acceptable to the Regulatory Agency and the World Bank.

17.4 Ethnic Minority Development Plans (EMDPs)
a. Where in a project any ethnic minority groups are affected, particular attention should
be paid to collect additional information focusing upon household ownership of
economic and productive assets; economic information of community (e.g., brief
information on economic and natural resources, production and livelihood systems,
tenure systems); social information of community (e.g.. brief description of kinship,
value system, types of social organizations of formal/informal groups, farming groups,
etc.), especially those that can help the group in adjusting to potential impacts from the
project; and potential impact of sub-project on the social and economic livelihood. The
Resettlement Action Plans should include a separate section to address ethnic minority
issues and suggested actions to ensure that the social and economic benefits they receive
are in harmony with their cultural preferences.

b. Where the impacts on ethnic minority are likely to be significant, a standalone Ethnic
Minority Development Action Plan (EMAP) will be prepared in line with the Ethnic
Minorities Development Policy (EMDP) which has been developed for RMP-2. The
EMAP will be submitted for approval by the World Bank. The description of resettlement
measures and the types of development assistance proposed will ensure that the social
and economic benefits proposed will be in harmony with their cultural preferences.


PART VIII. MONITORING, SUPERVISION & EVALUATION

18. Resettlement Monitoring and Supervision
18.1 Adequate arrangements should be made for effective and timely supervision and
internal monitoring of the implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation
measures.

18.2 In projects with major resettlement component, an experienced and independent
external monitoring agency would be contracted by project authorities to periodically
carry out external monitoring of the implementation of resettlement activities in
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans. Mechanisms should be put in place to
involve the affected community in monitoring of resettlement implementation activities.
The External Monitoring Agency will submit monitoring reports to the project authorities
regularly. MCTPC will regularly provide a copy of the external monitoring reports to the
Regulatory Agency and the World Bank.

18.3 In projects with major resettlement component, project authorities will make
provision for post-evaluation of resettlement implementation activities, six months to one
year after the completion of economic rehabilitation measures in the project, to check
whether the economic rehabilitation objectives of the Policy and the Resettlement Action
Plans have been achieved. If the evaluation indicates that the APs have not been able to
achieve the stated objectives and income targets, project authorities will make
arrangements for provision o f additional assistance to meet the stated objectives.

PART IX. RESETTLEMENT COST AND BUDGETS

19. Resettlement Cost and Budget
Each Resettlement Action Plan will include detailed cost estimates for compensation and
other resettlement entitlements and relocation of APs, if that be the case, with a
breakdown by category of APs; agricultural, residential and business land; houses,
structures and other fixed assets affected; rehabilitation assistance, transport and other
allowances; monitoring and evaluation; management and administration; phases of the
project and by financial year. The cost estimates will make adequate provisions for
contingencies.

Ethnic Minorities Development Policy Framework (EMDP) for RMP-2


                         World Bank Policy OP 4.0                                                      RMP-2 Project Policy Framework
Purpose is to ensure that indigenous people benefit from development             All sub-projects located in areas that contain ethnic minority groups will
projects, and (b) avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous    identify the representatives of such minority groups and consult with them
people caused by Bank-assisted activities.                                       whether the subproject has the potential to provide benefits or adversely
                                                                                 affect these groups

The Bank's policy is that the strategy for addressing the issues pertaining to   If potential positive and negative effects are identified, the sub project will
indigenous peoples must be based on the informed participation of the            inform local communities of the nature of the subproject and record and
indigenous people themselves. The key step in project design is the              incorporate into the design of the subproject the communities' wishes in
preparation of a culturally appropriate development plan based on full           relation to obtaining benefits from the project and avoiding or mitigating any
consideration of the options preferred by the indigenous people affected by      adverse impacts.
the project

Remote or neglected areas where little previous experience is available          If the project area is located in a very remote area where indigenous
often require additional research and pilot programs to fine-tune                communities have restricted links with local government, the project manager
development proposals.                                                           will request the assistance of the ESD to manage the community consultation
                                                                                 and participation process

As needed, the plan should include general education and training in             The project manager will distribute information and awareness raising
management skills for indigenous people from the onset of the project.           material packages produced by ESD in relation to the potential impacts of the
                                                                                 project on the well being of the community. These materials should
                                                                                 preferably be in the language of the ethnic community

Studies should make all efforts to anticipate adverse trends likely to be        The project manager will refer to the EMP for the project and associated
induced by the project and develop the means to avoid or mitigate harm.          guidelines and use this information to identify any potential adverse impacts
                                                                                 arising from the project. This information will be included in the monitoring
                                                                                 reports and be available for review.

The institutions responsible for government interaction with indigenous          A national consultant will be appointed to the ESD with experience in social
peoples should possess the social, technical, and legal skills needed for        impact assessment and community participation to assist in monitoring
carrying out the proposed development activities. Implementation                 subprojects and identify actions necessary for the subprojects in mitigating
arrangements should be kept simple. They should normally involve                 adverse impacts. The consultant will prepare regular reports on these

appropriate existing institutions, local organizations, and nongovernmental   activities. The consultant will also be required to identify possible sub-
organizations (NGOs) with expertise in matters relating to indigenous         projects where a standalone Ethnic Minorities Development Plan may be
peoples.                                                                      required in view of serious impacts.

Local patterns of social organization, religious beliefs, and resource use    The project manager of all environmentally and socially sensitive subprojects
should be taken into account in the plan's design.                            will coordinate with representatives of local communities to identify areas that
                                                                              are important in terms of providing livelihoods or are of socio-cultural and
                                                                              religious significance. The project manager will ensure that such areas are
                                                                              protected, and where necessary, will negotiate compensation for damage or
                                                                              reduced access to such areas.

Development activities should support production systems that are well        Where a subproject has the potential to influence or change the system of
adapted to the needs and environment of indigenous peoples, and should        livelihood of an ethnic minority community, the project manager will
help production systems under stress to attain sustainable levels.            coordinate with representatives of local communities to identify alternative
                                                                              sustainable production systems that are well adapted to the needs and
                                                                              environment of ethnic minority peoples.

Planning should encourage early handover of project management to local       On completion of subprojects, they will be handed over to provincial
people.                                                                       authorities who will monitor the impacts of the project on ethnic minority
                                                                              peoples.

Where effective programs are already functioning, Bank support can take the   The ESD will compile all monitoring reports and lobby donors and other
form of incremental funding to strengthen them rather than the development    funding agencies to support projects that mitigate the longer-term indirect
of entirely new programs.                                                     impacts of improved access.

For an investment project that affects indigenous peoples, the borrower       When a subproject has the potential to seriously affect the livelihood or
should prepare an indigenous peoples development plan that is consistent      interests of ethnic minority communities, ESD in consultation with the World
with the Bank's policy.                                                       Bank may deem it necessary for the subproject to prepare an Ethnic
                                                                              Minorities Development Plan. The plan will be prepared according to
                                                                              guidelines*specified in the Bank's OD 4.20 on Indigenous People

                                                    *Guidelines for Preparation of Ethnic Minority Development Plan
Proper protection of the rights of indigenous people (ethnic minorities) may require the implementation of special project components that may lie outside the
primary project's objectives. These components can include activities related to health and nutrition, productive infrastructure, linguistic and cultural
preservation, entitlement to natural resources, and education. The project component for indigenous peoples development should include the following
elements, as needed

Legal               The plan should contain an assessment of the legal status of the groups covered by this OD, as reflected in the country's constitution,
Framework.          legislation, and subsidiary legislation (regulations, administrative orders, etc.);


                    The plan should contain an assessment of the ability of such groups to obtain access to and effectively use the legal system to defend their
                    rights.


                    Particular attention should be given to the rights of indigenous peoples to use and develop the lands that they occupy, to be protected
                    against illegal intruders, and to have access to natural resources (such as forests, wildlife, and water) vital to their subsistence and
                    reproduction

Baseline Data.      Baseline data should include (i) accurate, up-to-date maps and aerial photographs of the area of project influence and the areas inhabited by indigenous
                    peoples;


                    (ii) analysis of the social structure and income sources of the population;


                    (iii) inventories of the resources that indigenous people use and technical data on their production systems;


                    (iv) the relationship of indigenous peoples to other local and national groups. It is particularly important that baseline studies capture the full range of
                    production and marketing activities in which indigenous people are engaged. Site visits by qualified social and technical experts should verify and update
                    secondary sources.


                    When local legislation needs strengthening, the Bank should offer to advise and assist the borrower in establishing legal recognition of the customary or

                   traditional land tenure systems of indigenous peoples.

Strategy for       Mechanisms should be devised and maintained for participation by indigenous people in decision making throughout project planning, implementation,
Local              and evaluation. Many of the larger groups of indigenous people have their own representative organizations that provide effective channels for
Participation.     communicating local preferences.




Technical          Technical descriptions should be included for the planned investments in productive infrastructure.
Identification of
Development
or Mitigation      Plans should draw upon indigenous knowledge
Activities.




Institutional      Organizational issues that need to be addressed through Bank assistance are the
Capacity.

                   (i) availability of funds for investments and field operations;
                   (ii) adequacy of experienced professional staff;
                   (iii) ability of indigenous peoples' own organizations, local administration authorities, and local NGOs to interact with specialized government institutions;
                   (iv) ability of the executing agency to mobilize other agencies involved in the plan's implementation; and
                   (v) adequacy of field presence.


Implementation     Components should include an implementation schedule with benchmarks by which progress can be measured at appropriate intervals.
   Schedule.       Pilot programs are often needed to provide planning information for phasing the project component for indigenous peoples with the main investment. The
                   plan should pursue the long-term sustainability of project activities subsequent to completion of disbursement.

Monitoring and     Independent monitoring capacities are usually needed.
  Evaluation.      Monitoring by representatives of indigenous peoples' own organizations can be an efficient way for the project management to absorb the perspectives of
                   indigenous beneficiaries and is encouraged by the Bank.
                   Monitoring units should be staffed by experienced social science professionals, and reporting formats and schedules appropriate to the project's needs
                   should be established. Monitoring and evaluation reports should be reviewed jointly by the senior management of the implementing agency and by the

                Bank.
                The evaluation reports should be made available to the public

Cost Estimates  The plan should include detailed cost estimates for planned activities and investments. The estimates should be broken down into unit costs by project
and Financing   year and linked to a financing plan.
    Plan.       Such programs as revolving credit funds that provide indigenous people with investment pools should indicate their accounting procedures and
                mechanisms for financial transfer and replenishment.
                It is usually helpful to have as high a share as possible of direct financial participation by the Bank in project components dealing with indigenous peoples.

                                          Attachment 3
           (to the Safeguards Policies, Social and Environmental Issues Summary)

           ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES FOR ROAD PROJECTS (EGRP)
                       (Updated in June 2004 and to be applied to RMP-2)


1. Policy Statement

1.1 It is MCTPC policy to ensure that road development, including maintenance operations, do
not cause adverse impacts on the local environment and local communities. To achieve this
objective, it is the responsibility of MCTPC's staff to ensure that appropriate actions, including
monitoring, are undertaken during the planning, design, pre-construction, construction, and post-
construction phases. Safeguard performance of contractors is considered important and will be
monitored closely. Efforts will be made to incorporate measures to reduce potential negative
impacts that may occur after the post-construction phase. MCTPC's staff will also ensure that
information related to the environmental and social impacts of the project (such as EIA/IEE
reports, Mitigation plans, etc.) is made available for public review and will promote/maintain
close consultation and cooperation with local communities and local authorities.

1.2 This policy guidelines will be applied to all the civil works subprojects to be implemented
under RMP-2. All concerned divisions/offices/units responsible for planning, implementation,
supervision, and monitoring of the subprojects and/or activities will be responsible for proper
application of the guidelines. When appropriate, the safeguard requirements will be incorporated
into the normal operations of the divisions/offices/units. ESD of DOR will be responsible for
ensuring the compliance, including provide technical assistance and training to the concerned
staff.

2. Guidelines during Planning, Design, and Bid Preparation

2.1 Safeguard Screening Framework
To ensure that no adverse impacts occur without proper mitigation, an Environmental and Social
Safeguard Framework (ESSF) has been developed for the RMP-2. During the preparation phase
i.e. preparation of an Annual Work Plan (AWP), all the subproject proponent, in consultation
with ESD, will conduct the safeguard screening according to the criteria specified in the ESSF.
Result of the screening should be included in the AWP report. If the subprojects that fully
compliance with the screening criteria and a contractor will be employed to conduct the works,
the subproject proponent will determine the potential negative impacts and prepare an action
plan to mitigate them in line with the guidelines specified in Section 2.2. The action plan will be
made available for public review. Public disclosure will follow the guidelines provided in
Section 2.3.

If the subprojects involve land acquisition, resettlement, ethnic minority, environmentally
sensitive areas (see definition), and/or larger civil works and expected, ESD and the World Bank
will be informed and preparation of the action plan will be carried out inline with the policy
specified in The Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines (RCG) and the Ethnic Minority
Development Plan (EMDP) of the Project. If an IEE or a special study is required, the subproject
proponent will carry out the IEE/study in line with the guidelines provided in Section 5.




                                                  1

2.2 Identification of Impacts and Mitigation Plan
Impacts may be wide-ranging in nature ­ for example, they could be direct or indirect,
secondary, cumulative, short, medium or long-term, permanent or temporary, positive or
negative effects. Tables 1-4 provide technical guidelines which should be considered as `Code of
Sound Environmental Practice' for each stages of road development works (planning-design,
pre-construction and post-construction, during construction, and when special cases are
involved). More details are given in Appendix A. Consultation with the local communities and
local authorities during this stage is necessary.

2.3 Public Disclosure
Information on the subprojects, the potential impacts, and proposed mitigation plans will be
made available (in local languages) at MCTPC offices both at the central and local levels.
Comments or concerns from the local communities and local authorities should be considered
and addressed.

2.4 Detailed Design and Preparation of Bid Document
Depend on the nature of the impacts, the proposed mitigation measures will be considered
during the detailed design and preparation of bid document as appropriate. This include the
mitigation to reduce the impacts during pre-construction, construction, and post construction.
Some of the suggested mitigation measures, including some clauses for inclusion in the
specifications for contractors is provided in Appendix B. Specific requirements, operation
manuals, including monitoring form, etc. will be provided by ESD.

3. Guidelines during Bid Evaluation and Implementation of Contract

3.1. Bid invitation, Evaluation, and Award
During the bidding process, the potential bidders will be informed to the need to comply with
the safeguard requirements and their performance will be closely monitored and supervised by
field engineers. Compliance with the safeguard requirements will be a condition for the refund
of the bid guarantee of the subproject. If necessary, clarification and/or training will be provided.

3.2. Implementation and Monitoring
Field engineers will closely monitor the contractor performance during the pre-construction,
construction, and post-construction. The monitoring results will be sent to ESD for information
on a monthly basis. ESD will provide training and standard form for monitoring report.

4. Guidelines when Land Acquisition, Relocation, Ethnic Minority, and "Environmentally
Sensitive Areas" are Involved
Table 4 provides information regarding these issues. In any case, the subproject proponent will
consult ESD and take appropriate actions in line with the Resettlement and Compensation
Guidelines (RCG) and the Ethnic Minority Development Policy (EMDP) developed for the
project. If IEE is required, the guidelines is provided in Appendix C. The World Bank will be
informed in all cases.

5. Monitoring and Evaluation
ESD of DOR will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of this guidelines and
periodically report the results and/or make recommendations to the Director of DOR.




                                                 2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 no                                                                                                                    eht                                                                                                      ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an                                                                                                                   ce                                                                                                                                                                                         el                                                                                                   zei                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   es                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     do                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               etc.                                                                                                                                                     ,sngsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d                                                                                                                                                                           with

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with                                                                                                      de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ltseb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e.bl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  enm                                                                                                                  ich                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          gnin                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rfausa                                                                                                                                                                                     gravr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gnitsixe                                                                                       ke                                                                                                                                                                             ss

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ild                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ot                                                                                                                                                                                                             yna                                                                                      echc                                                      ssiop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          wh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rest                                                                                                                                                      war                                                                                          ecessaryn                                                                                                                  dna
                                                                                                                                                                                                       in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fostnem                                                                                          nimim

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  deng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   areas.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          rrate                                                                                                      align                                                                                                                  tionlu                                                                                                                 buot                                                                                                 eht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                                                                                                                                                       .e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                erehw

                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      so
                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rsehtoe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                                                  ck                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngiyfi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ertv                                                                                                                                    .e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             opl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              desi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dluo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pe                                                             the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gn                                                                                                         Discu.ngsied
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rect                                                                                      sh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cul                                                                                                                                   side                                                                                           .ng                                                                                                                          iers,rrab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     esto                                                                                                                    n                                                                                                                                                                                      settlehg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      livl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                yle                                                                                                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eth                                                                                                                                                      wo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   und


                                                                            MEASURE                                                                                                                               afficrt,d                                                                                               selectingnitne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           routh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                so                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         betwee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     toin                                                                                                                                                      ies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          enpm                                                                                                                   cou                                                                                                 dna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              least                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          quateda                                                                                                                                                                                                          emst                                                                                  hcihw,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           roa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          gesd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      iate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ndsal                                               desinignitnapl                                                                                                              s


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ss                                                                                                                                                                                                                            coron                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      not                                                                                                   bri                                                                                                                                    atno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  facilittne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fo                                                                      people.                                                                                                                                            desiehtnieblsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      onictristre                                                                                                 ntro                                            calolht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                                                    co

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      opr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          spee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      wisngsi                                                         neoz                                                                                                                                                                                         rfacing                                                                                               are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nage                                                                                                                                                    rfut

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cla                                                                                                   resettlemd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   buffer                                                                                                                                                                                          susuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 adjace                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      eatmrt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for                                                                                                          an                                                                                                               siged                                                                                                                 does                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          trees                                                                                            pos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              local                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        apeer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             also                                                                                                ber                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wh                                                                                                                                            gniduclni                                                                                           fences                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nageai                                                                                                                                                                                                           drai                                                                                                                                                    ee/rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dna                                             deebl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          min                                                                                                dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             possi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d                                                                                                                                                                                                            eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ngi

                                                                                   MITIGATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sitioniu                                                                                                            faira                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               retain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itub
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 but                                                                                                num                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         roa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ofru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iph                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      chum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ng                                                                                                  ngs                                                                                                             getative                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  uss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nience                                                         ly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             vea                                                                                                                                                                                           ofsn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          esv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sco                                                       udeclnI.                                                                                                          drink/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pro                                                                                                                                                        ns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        propriatepa                                                                                                         acqd                                                                                                             tiate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 desi                                                                                                 crossi                                                 Disc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           im                                                                                       as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lan                                                                                                               goen                                                                                                                    ha                                                                                           eatripo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   assa                                                                                                                             design,eht                                                                                                                                                 e                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                wash                                                                                                                                                    wasteeta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e.v                                                        pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sectio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ap                                                                         inconve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          toni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              saf                                                                                                     sa                                                                                                                                                                                 .                                                                                                                                                                .sn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                equ
Phases                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             standards                                                                                                       zeimi                                                                                                              totpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a                                                                                                                                                                                                                       prese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ater                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          desi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ater                                                             opl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            undue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      reserd                                                      ude                                                                                                                                   sideenonedi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s,h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                grate                                                                                                                                             reu                                                                                                      patot                                          possibleer                                                          or                                                          odybre                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an,strevluc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rpo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  co                         desigd                                                            reu                                                                                                                                                                                                           reu                                                                                such,smelbo                                                    oosnomehtgnri                                                                                                            rpo                                                             pe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Set                                                                                                         Min                                                                                                                Atte                                                                                                                  cause                                      roa                                                      Incl                                                                         minimize                                                         W                                                                                        Avoid                                                                                                                                    Inte                                                                                                                                            Ens                                                                                                        fo                                                  whe                                                         Plant                                                           wat                                                                                                                                 In                             roa                                                            Ens                                                                 effects.                                                                                                                                  Ens                                                                                        pr                                                               du                                                                                                               In                                                           calol                                                                                      stall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In

      Design                                                                                                            herot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e

            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cialos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eas,ar                                                                                                                                                                     nts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lly                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    opl                                                                                                             is,ht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pe
                                                                                                                             use
                                                                                                                                can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 with                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               accide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pecia                                                                                                                                                                                                                ng                                                                                                  re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tress.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nt                                                                          es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wat


               Planning                                                                      STCA                                  caskrowh                                                                                                                     )"noitc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                restof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          use                                                                                                                                                  n.oitul                                            3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       trus                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tedcurtsn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd                                                                                                                                                                                                              odiofl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                adjace                                                                        roa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           beca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  verance                                                                                                                                 roadside                                                                                            rgivi                                                                                                                                                                     dse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngiatrtn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            caloL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   polre

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co                                                                                                                                                                                                                      se                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    elv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ectffa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    d.eilpp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       wat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            su                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              systems
                                                                                                                                           eart
                       During                                                                    IMP                                                                                                                                                                       Con-                                                                                            le.                                                                                                                                     llya                                                                                                                                                                                                                    use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                oncec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      use
                                                                                                                                               ve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,efildl                                                                                                                                                                    traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         wi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pollution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ca


                             ures

                                 Meas                                                               LAITNETOP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 opep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wat                                                                                                             gea
                                                                                                                                                 ssi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   illeg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ting                                                                                                                                                                                                            pollution.                                                  in                                                                                  s.alminadnae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     opl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           roeth

                                                                                                                                                    exce                                                                                                                                                                                                                          callo                                                                                                                                     yl                                                                                        .de                                                                                                                       can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             exis                                                                                             s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               semigre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ainrd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pollution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s.                                                                                                                                        eros
                                                                                                                                                        ghhiooterasdr                                                                                                            "3rednu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ssib                                                                                       ffecta                                                                                                                    ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            airdna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       creasni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pactsmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fectaf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ities                                                                                                ts                                                                                                                                   po,sgni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ffecta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                increase                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               bed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pactmi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     calol,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ilos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dust                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    toegamad                                                                                                    areagn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       can                                                                                                                                                                                                               noise                                                 an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      can                                                                                                                                                             s.t                                                                                                                                                                                                                             evi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gnkinirdg/n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    caligool                                        systemn                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             activ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oulc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            etc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              use                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dr                                                                                                gat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                wo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iremen                                                                                                                                    ildub                                                                                                                                                                                                         bankmme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ha                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e,v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cause                                                                                          usersd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      roa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       shiaw                                                                                                         rfereetin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (See                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n                                                                                                                    cause                                                   n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tioag                                                                                                                                       scour                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          result
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            deni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               omrf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ca          relics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on                                                                        can                                                                              settlemen
                                     Mitigation                                                                                                                      ndaast                                                                                                                                                                                                                          requ                                                                                                                                     g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n.oi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     can                                                 ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   irrig                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               istin                                                                                     reserd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 wi                                                                                                          ral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       roagni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                retal                                                                                              cause                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fectaf

                                               and                                                                                                                         If                                                                                                                         effects.                                                                                           Land                                                                                                                                       Ex                                                                                         roa                                                                                                               Roads                                        uptsrdi                                                                                             Road                                                                                      adsoR              ltu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    odibre                                                                                                                                       ugh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cu                                                                                                  Roads                                              Roads                                                                                              affect                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Traffic                    wat                                             Traffic                                                                                   roth                                                                                                                       naC                                             istin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ex                                            naC                                                                                 increasing                                                                                                                                                                            naC                                                                                                         mestiem                                          ich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 so                                           wh                                                                                                       Drai
                                                  ctsa                                                                                                                       sd
                                                      Imp                                                                                                                      dar
                                                                                                             Y                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                    St
                                                                                                              ITV                                                                     gnsi
                                                         Potential                                                                                                                        De                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -Design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngsied
                                                                                                                 ACTI
                                                                  1.                                                                                                                        ngit                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nage
                                                                                                                                                                                                Set                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Plann

                                                                    Table                                                                                                                          1.1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Drai31.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sru                                                                                                                Use                                                                                                                                                                                                              gn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n                                                                                                                                                              e

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               osi                                                                                                                                                                         .p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  spdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     unless                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    anyfo                                                                                                                                                                                                              areas                                                                                                                                   eas.ar                                                                             ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        capi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        itivs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sen

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                                                                       our                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sen                                                                                                                                      br                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tally                                                                                                                                 t.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         emst                                                                                                                                                                      labeht                                                                                                                        contract,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      areaethd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                 itivs                                                                                                                                   gni                                                                            ghtil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ocess
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e                                                                           dayotk                                                                                                      nces.emmoc                                                                                                                                                                                                          ndsal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rkowylnodnanoi                                                                                                                                                                                              ctio

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                                                                                                       timil                                                                                                                                                            enm

                                                                                             ance.)m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                preht                                                                                                                                                                                                               tally                                                                                                                                    lif                                                                                                                                                                                              ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               anlpeth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )SDIA                                                                              and,                                                                                                                                                                     ingn                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                     rk                                                                                            s.tnem                                                                                                                                                   aroun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wor                                                                                                                astbl                                                                         s.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  catol                                                                                             treams                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                            roniv                                                                                                                                  to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nmen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    on,itidn


                                                                                                    perfor                                                                                                                    SERU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ildwro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        settle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            re                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ne

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         eatihd                                                                                                                            letionp                                                                                                                                woshir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     roi                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ctirsteR                                                                                                               fo                                                                       eanmit                                                                                                                                    d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            oneyna                                                                                             down                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cesivedl
                                                                                                          tor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sy                                                                                                                                                                         an                                                                                                                                 com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tialne                                                                                                                                            itchdaevah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ngirudgni                                                                                                                                                                                                                  env
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n                                                                             e.blsi                                                                                                           beelp                                                                        at                                                                                                                                   ne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       enrehto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     whn                                                                                                                                  drai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ermhsfie/                                                                                                                                                             or                                                                                                                                   rotn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        residy                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                       s.tnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                easar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  heatr                                                                                                                                                                                                                herto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            or                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pos                                                                                                             peo                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oved                                                                                           carriedeb                                                                                                       opl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           st
                                                                                                             contrac                                                                                                                  N                                  ise.                                                                                                                                                                      .elbissop                                                                                                                                                                        emst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HIgndiu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 at                                                                                                                              foeblsinop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                        pe                                                                                                                                                          areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ncl(i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p                                                                                                                                       res                                                                                                 an                                                                                                                                                 ills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               oductio                                                                               as                                                                                                              of                                                                        latio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          settle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tial                                                                                                                                     pr                                                                                                                 blasting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      du
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tial
Phases                                                                                                              the                                                                                                                TIOA                                    and                                                                                                                                                                          erehwe                                                                                                                                                                        nkatcipt                                                                                                                                                                      cookr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sea                                                                                                                                                                        fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          or                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                    spdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fodoow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            kc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   any                                                                  clear                                                                          po                                                                                                                                ydit,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ract                                                                                              fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tialne                                                                                                                                                       eluf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       chum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            calol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    qua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  residen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                     is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    callo                                                                                                                                safea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ht
                                                                                                                       prove                                                                                                                                                         sp                                                                                                                                                                           opl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fuelev                                                                                                                          camru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ontc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      y                                                                                                                                 stoevil                                                                                                                      ncy                                                                    eara                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        alrietam                                                                                           terialame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fin                                                                                                     wi                                                                                                                                                          residen                                                                                                                                  ade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                            im                                                                                                             MITIG                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pe                                                                                         gnsaipm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          boal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Avo.st
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           residy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the

                                                                                                                              will                                                                                                                                                     cleihev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          intam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       calol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         alternati                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     keamd                                                                                        awayp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            useotd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     assstreof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              que                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ofhpt                                                                                                                                                                                                         noi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sho                                                                                                                                                                                                                             let.tuoeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eivs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rm                                                                                                                                  eara                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              stallni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     at                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or                                       fre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      that                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                           neces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fro                                                                                                                                     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s'r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ove                                                             thorities.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               awa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pplyus                                                                                                                          rem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itals,                                                                      ndsalm                                                                                                             surene                                                                   foindnan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               little                                                                                                    catol                                                                .ylgndi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            leave                                                                                             ng,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ereth                                                                                                                                                                         or                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ractor
      Post-Construction                                                                                                           engineersd                                                                                                                                                     ractotn                                                                                                                                                                    oyplmeot                                                                                      enesr                                                                              andlalstni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    icanrblu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        angn                                                                                              wod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          weolal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tenin


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           size
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stes.                                                                                     to                                                                                                                           ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ant                                                                                                                                                   recycled                                                                      trapli/o                                                         awayt                                                                                                                                                        not                                                                                                                                                                                                              awayt                                                                                                                                            sp                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                                               ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     deehttimilot                                                                                                   ere                                                                                               edsopo                                                                   acc                                                                                    awayt                                                                                                                                        ontc

                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              col                                                                                                                                                                         or                                                                                            health                                                                                 or                                                                                    wa                                                                                     or                                                                                                                           or                                                                auethyb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or                                                          .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ho                                                                                                                                                                                             or                                                                                                                                                                                                               or                                                                                            planti                                                                                                                                             or                                                                                                    wh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  anlp
                                                                                                                                            fiel                                                                                                                                                           rotn                                                                                                                                                                       ract                                                                                              ote                                                                                ract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ract                                                                   ired
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 solid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      achioptibih                                                                                         poed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ondpg                                                         anlp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          anlp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ract                                                       alsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fardoi                                     theit                                                                                                                                              siregn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     as                                                                            av                                        lim                                                                                                                                                 rni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tree                                                                                                                                           ract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nsoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rat
                                                                                                                                                by                                                                                                                                                             Co                                                                                                                                                                         ontC                                                                                             Prom                                                                                ontC                                                                                   of                                                                                Contract                                                                                                                         ontC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cate                                                                                                                                                     llect                                                                                                                                         cate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                requ                                                                   Pro                                                                                              Lo                                                                                                                                                        Co                                                                          settin                                                           Lo                                                                                                                                                       ontC                                                                                                                                                                                                             cate                                                                                                                                          ch                                                                            so
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   mater                                                                                                                                                     Lo                                                                                                                                          su                                                                            Al                                       and                                                                 Contract                                                                        waa                                                                                                                              Contract                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                            ontC                                                                                              areas                                                                                                scuss                                                                                                                                                            cate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                   Di                                                                    ope                                                                                       Lo                                                                                                                                      areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a                                                                                                           fo                                                                                                                                                                                  di                                                                                                                                                                           ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       su                                                                                                                                    ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                  itoringnom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 anent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s.t                                                                have                                                                                                         ng                                                                                                                                                                                  sold                                                                                                                                                                         do                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for                                                                          any                                                                                                                                     itivs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       can                                                                                                               soal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bei-l                                                                                                                                                                                 an                                                                                                                                                                         wo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s.t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s.t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fectaf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      breedire                                                                                                                        wofl                                                                                                                ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       enme                                                                                                                                  es.sru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rcoe
                          Pre-Construction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eluf                                                                                                                        perma                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              grease,loi

                                                                                                                                                            Close                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     settl
                                          ing                                                                                                                    d.                                                                                                                                                 settlemeny                                                                                                                                                                             al                                                                                                                                                                              sewageci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    otni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fue                                                                              co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ACTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         soci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s.erdistuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              woodl                                                                              dul                                                                                                                                     tall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ngadaeb                                                                                                                                    wat                                                                                                                         revri                                                                                                             nda                                                                                                                                                                                               .saeragnihsfi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             settlemeny                                                                                                                                                          oniatni                                                                                                                            settlemeny                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng                                                                                                                                     enm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   can                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                users                                                                                      s.k                                                                                                              calol
                                             dur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             watnidna
                                                                                                                                                                   applie                                                                           IMP                                                                       earbn                                                        workforce                                                                                                             nda                                                                                                                                                                               est
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             stagna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    earbn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ht                                                                                                                                                                                dom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           byem                                                                                               earbn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        amnt                                                                                                                                  earbn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      basi                                                                                                                                    roniv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         use                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 gnbi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  banr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y                                                                                                                                        onita
                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                           AL                                                                          anyr                                                             idets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   morf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            affectd                                                                                                                                                            anr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ou
                                                                                                                                                                            ed                                                                                                                                                         fon                                                                                                                                                                            heal                                                                                                                                                                               byd                                                                                                                                                                   delolrtno                                                                                                                    camruobal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       anyr                                                                                                                                                            core                                                                                                                                   anyr                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            get
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        unc                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       stud                                                                                                                                   rehto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   urstdi                                                                                                        reamstnw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           an
                                                Measures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tio                                                                                                                                                                             eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 boro                                                                                                                                   result                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           do                                                                                   verieht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              oulcd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cause                                                                                                                                                                          or                                                                                                                          ent                                                                                                                                calolfo                                                                                               fon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng.i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tio                                                                                                                                                          watd                                                                                                                                      tio                                                                                                                                                 trees                                                                                  d                                                                                                                                       or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tion
                                                                                                                                                                              prepar                                                                                                                                                         llu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      llu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    llu                                                                                                                                                                                        n.e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vedna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                       st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   arr                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POTENTI                                                                                                                                               n                                                                                                             on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 astbl
                                                                                                                                                                                    be                                                                                                                                                          po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        opm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    qu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 men                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              geamad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lluop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  seion                                                         ctio                                                                                                           pactmi                                                           .e                                                                                                               onitul                                                                                                                                                                      vesi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngih
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               p.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   andnuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              noi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    yards.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         down                                    bitum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        den                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              alrietam                                                                                                          ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   opscr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ise

                                                        Mitigation                                                                                                                    should                                                                                                                                                           and                                                          odurtin                                                                                                                                                                       opl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            exces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        settle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ildrenhc                                                         es.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     evi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          seion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              morfsnt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     gn                                                                                                            sedi                                                                                     oreni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pe                                                                                                                polebl                                                                                                                                                                         ebl        cam

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ur                                                                                                       develebl                               .tnem                                                                                            acopebl

                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Air                                                               Th                                                                                                          negat                                                          calol                                                                                                                 Possi                                      wastes.                                                                                                                          Possi        boal                                                                                                           Possi                               settle                                                                                             Possi                                                                                          seiondnariA                                                                                                                                                    grebl                                             fuel                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bratvi,es                                                                                                                                      y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for                                                         itou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           abando                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      calolno

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Possi                                            and                                                                                       Air                                                                                                                                          Cutting                                  heating                                             Noi                                                                                                                                    earbn                                                                                            areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                            Acci                                                                                               nA                                                                                                                                      area                                                         sqom                                                         ovimeR                                                                                                                                                                                                    rm                                                                                                         verirehtgngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cause                                                                                         un                                                                                                                 anhC                                                                                                                                                        and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Air                                                                                                                                        dust


                                                                                                                                                                                            guidelines
                                                                     Impacts                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                    t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    etarepO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eratpO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     men                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                                                                        omfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e                                                                                                                                     nd/a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bitu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ITV                                                                                          enmpi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rceofkr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Operat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Operat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Operat                                                                                                                                      Pl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d               .p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Operate                   ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ckoR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Equ                                                               Wo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ds.eB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                            Potential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   owrr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and

                                                                                                                                                                                                         procedures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nginni                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                gnnie

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rea
                                                                                     2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ilizebo                                                          zeil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           obi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              hsilb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eaar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Up                Plant                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Up                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Up                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            hsibla         shokro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Boro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                       St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mill.


                                                                                       Table                                                                                                                       Specific(                                                                                                                                                 M.1.2                                                            M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Est              ant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Set                  alt                                                                                                                tionara                                                                                          Set                                                                                                                                     rry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Set                                                                                                                                         rry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Set                                                                                                                                     creS/gnhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.3.Esta                             Labo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42.              poeD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5                  Asph                                                                                                                   eprP                                                                                         2.6                                                                                                                                     Qua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.7                                                                                                                                         Qua                                                     veriR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8                                                                                                                                           usrC                                                                                                                      Pugro

                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ck

                                                                                                                                                                                                            expose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              walls                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           snaird                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fo                                                                                                              esto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              actr                                                                                                                                                eblsi                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               liv                                                                                                       alcinivo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      eacl                                                                                                                                                                  dustlor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     material
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   uctr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          eivs                                                                                                             ht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ontc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e                                                                                                                                                                        ontc                                                                                                                            uctrtsnoC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Protect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            wi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                  itmil                                                                                                                                uat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ble.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onstC                                                                                                                               r.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cove                                                                              eas.ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ringev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ycneuqerf                                                                                                                tenin                                                                                                            sed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                adeq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tioncurtsn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          us                                                                                                                                                 eas.ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng                                                                                                                                                       co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ontcd                                                                        s.tne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ve                                                                                                                                                                       adol                                                                                                                                necessafi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             possi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     size                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                               an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ract                                                                                                                                            easuresm                                                                                                                                ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ailab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r.e                                                                                                                                                                                             as                                                                                                                          antpldnac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aren                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ppiite                                                                                                                                                   yb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          scdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ha


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ablts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ppiite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ablts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    htgiew                                                                                                                                 alrietam                                                                                                   av

)                                                                                      nce.)a                                                                                                                                       much                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          peo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    uses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         clo                                                                                                                                                                                                 orctra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ngit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        as                                                                                                              covt                                                                                                                                                                                           chum                                                                                                                               brifa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    settlemen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   timli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .                                                             edtropre                                                                                   e.lp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          settlemotes                                                                  lornt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               distances.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            anlp                                                                                                                                                                                           as
                                                                                             perform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          season                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                          easons                                                                                                                            h,clumht                                                                           edatngsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       wet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             hg                                                                                                              ansrist                                                                                                                                                                 d                                                                                                            ls)atipsoh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ontc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   callylo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s                                                                                                                                                             areas                                                                                                                                                          calloeth                                                   edatngsi                                                                                                                                                                      water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ecially                                                               c                                                                c.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       andesion                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                                                           ortp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 esp                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                          s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pede                                                                                                                                                                 ur                                                                                                                 ecially                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contehtnignrie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              finds                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    local                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         affirt

 Operations tn                                                                                      ctorra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rouht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     byd                                                                                                                                                                hot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ns,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (esp                                    ngdie                                                                   h                                                                                           es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ount                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ffiartnoi                                                            sllips
                                                                                                          coehte                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                             fabric,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ot                                                                                                                  lchum                                                                                                                                                                                    dryeth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ots                                                                                                                           wiskrowhrt                                                                         deotloipsfo                                                                                                                                               gnined                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          suc                                                                                          tativ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fore                                                                                                                                             safe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 adsolgnri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            uctr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           transesimi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          deotloipsfo                                                                                                                                                                         acco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       bratioiv                                                                                                                                                                                               doi                                                                                                                                                                   speedeclhi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ecessary.n                                         min

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      wifo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ylighad                                                                                                                  stnem                                    breefildl                                                                                                                                                             esenr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     int                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              av                                                                                                                                                                           ve                                                                                                                                       co

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cludin                                                                                                                                           oypl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          if
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               em                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s


 Maintenance                                                                                                    ovrpmi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        beot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          settle                                                                                                        ensure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               with                                                                                                                                                                                         work                                                                                                                                    seop                                                                             sposeidot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              or                                                                                                                                              effects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  krow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                repd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    keat                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bysirb                                                                                                ad                                       toelbiss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  earn                                                                                                          ot                                                                                                                                                 sposeidot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or                                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                                                                                           or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       seiont                                                                                                                                                                                             rol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       de                                                                                                ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        earthworks
                                                                                                                      will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      earth                                                                                                                                   ex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            g                                  widnanoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               onstc-nonotnoi                                                          cont                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pore
            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   it                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 itm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         itiesr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ectot                                                                                 ract                                                                                                                                                 ceu                                                                                                          earaehte                                                                                                                                                                 cti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ract                                                                                                                                                                                                            es.rud                                                                                     orsctrantoclor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ducto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngiyfl
                                                                                                                          eersnig                                                                                                                                   Lim                                                                                                            earthworks                                                                                                                                                                                           Li                                                                                                                                     pr                                                                                   ontC                                                                                                                                                Red                                                                                                               enabl                                                                                                                                                               Restr                                                                                                                    astinlb                                                                                                                                                                                                         tho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr                                                            Contract                                                                                              au                                                      ontC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ecification                                                                           enmpiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Contract                                                                                                                                                                                          Sp                                                                               eq                                                         ontC                                                                 uptsrdi                                                       ctri                                                                           oce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                St                                                                            pr                                                                                              ontC                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                         aryropmte                                        everhw

               Phase en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ns,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         an
                                                                                                                                 fieldybg                                                                                                                                 draini                                                                                                                                                                                         skrowh                                                                                                                                     n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tioa                                                                                                                                                                                               can                                                                                                                                                tilityu                                                                                                                                                               evlo                                                                                                               ev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      itis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sign                                                                                                                                                                         or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             by


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         irrig                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       noi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             st

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eart                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               licb                                                                                                                                                               invs                                                                                                                 sen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ppiit                                                                   n.o

                                                                                                                                         rin

               Construction                                                                                                                 itonomes                                                                                                                            oniatntemdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   omrf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ylhtg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    men
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      puro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rehto                                                                                                                                                                                                                          red.e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 osier                                                                                              gatriri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     retawdnuo                                                                                                                                                                             settle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          unsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   se                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 gr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       si                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                earthwork                                                                                                                ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           no

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           se                                                                                                                                                                                            osire                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tracks                                                                                                                                                                  if                                                                                                                st                                                                                                                                                                                                                              unebdlu                                                                                                                                                    desielpmsi                                                                                                                                                                        s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  earbyn

                           during                                                                                                                   Clo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         men                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                bynoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     aff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      fety                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    y

                                                                                                                                                       lied.p                                                                                                                                creaseni                                                                                        s.e                                                                                               an                                                                                                                                waterways,snai                                                                                                                                                                                          gnpipit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eciallyp                                                                                                             settle                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cosm                                                                                                                                                                                                                             caudnaffon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s,thapto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                             desi                         erosi                                                                                                                      fo                                                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                                 y                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ite                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      yr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        san                                                                                                                                             rwayet                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        wa                                                                                                                                                                                fo
                                                                                                                                                             ap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .s                                                                                                                                                    stria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tag                                                                               d.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s.d
                                 Measures                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                   canskrowh                                                                                  itchd                                                                                            s,edi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s,e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ltural                                                                                                                                                      vatacxen                                                                rueatrtn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tiona                                                                                            ndslal                                                                                                                                       ntatione                                                                                                                                                                                         ylpmsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      earbn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                       be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fron                                                                                                                                                          bration,vi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             roa
                                                                                                                                                                  ared                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          curos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             poramet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      drai                                                                                                                                                                                                   es.ilppusre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        wat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               peded                                                                                                                                                                                                 .stnevlosros                                                                                                                    lluop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          irrig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eart
                                                                                                                                                                      prep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                            spisl                                                                                                                                        dim                                                                                                                                                                                            by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       urstdi                                                                               and                                                                                                          affect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             omfr                                                                                                                                                                   have                                      ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  anc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              se                                                                                                                                                                                            al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oncecnac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ducto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          runoff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 brationivd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             remain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nki                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ffi                                                                                                                                                                                                            pr                                                                                                                  ise

                                                                                                                                                                          be
                                         Mitigation                                                                                                                         ld                                                                                                                                    omfrnois                                                                                                                                                                                         se                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      noise                                                                                                             cou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n                                                                                                                                                                     an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               noitullop                                                                                                                                                                                   no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                easer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rtyeporp                                                                             bedul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ca                                                                                                                                                                     ise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngitsixeot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cau                                                                                                                                             inc                                                                              se                                                                                                                                        traten                                                                                                                      g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co                                                                                ble                                                                                                             g,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 icalr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             istin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    andylhtg                                                                                          skr                                     drig/n                                                                                                                          no                                                                                                                                                   trano                                                                                                                                           ebl                                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gea
                                                   and                                                                                                                        shou
                                                                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                                                      Ero                                                                                     waterways                                                                                             naC                                                                                                                                             can                                                                             itchd                                                                                                 possdiloi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sp                             conce                                                                                                                       Ex                                                                            esnil                                                                              Possi                                                                                                          astinlb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     posalsdiloi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               areas.                                                                                                                                                   Histo                                                                                                                                                            Sp                                                                   unsi                                                                                         Wo                                         washi                                                                                                                         Du                                                                                                                                                    Effect                                                                                                                                        Possi                                                      nousimutbi                                                                                                                Air                                                                                                             dam
                                                      ctsa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in

                                                          Impl                                                                                                                      deliniug                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nte


                                                                                                                                                                                            and

                                                                                                                                                                                               ures                                                                                                                          nidevlovnI                                                                                    .n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Terrai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at             nidevlovnI                                                                                                                               or,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       edlv                                                                           s.tnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tcejo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rrai                                                                                                                               .d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      vo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  provem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .gnci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Te                                                                                                                               Lan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eep                                                                                                                               le                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s                                                                            Settlehg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rfa


                                                              Potentia                                                                                                                             edc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       seaB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         stab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ork                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eg

                                                                      3.                                                                                                                              pro                                                                                                                              ksrowhrt                                                                                      Flni

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ning               ksrowhrt                                                                                                                                    Stni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Un                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hwt                                                                              rouht

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                naairD                                                                                                                                                   nte                                       elvarGronoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tropsn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vem                                               uctr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tra                                                                                              als.i

                                                                        Table (Specific                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ea13.                                                                                         dei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                   Ea23.                                                                                                                                       dei                                                                                                                            ugh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s.kr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W                                                                                                                              roth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.3                                                                             nginedi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43.                                                     Wo                                                                                               Pa53.                                              onstC Surfacing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nouimutiB63.                                                                                                                                                                              73.                                                                                                Mater

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for                                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                 eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  de                                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             de                                                                                                                  re                                                                                                                                                 areas                                                                 with                                                              (bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     acepl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fo                                                                                                                                                    or                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ehtrof                                                                                                                                                                ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cluni                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            stallni

are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lopeved                                                               keat                                                           ensationp                                                                                                                                                                                  lopeved                                                                                                               be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                                                                                                                      d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dluo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ltatio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            peo                                                                                                                                                                    an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s.r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ensure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               spo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cato                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nsu                                                       liciesopt                                                                                                                                                                                            vel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                locations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nceamrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s,t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c.et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CG)
   Areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      onit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e                                                                                                                                                                                     CG)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       neegi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (R                                                                  ucr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (R                                                                                                                  rel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              acklb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     si                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   activ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cials                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng

                                                                                                                            S                                                                                                                                   es                                                                   nst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          de)PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e                                                                                                                                                 suitable                                                                                                                            resettlemen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 edt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          offi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nkioh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  elinid
        Sensitive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       coeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n.oi                                                                                                                                         (EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      reasonabl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an                                                                                                                                                                                         yci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wannu                                                                                                                                  nceailpmoC                                                                                                             endelfi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     oflavo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          calol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n                                                                                                                                    Pay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fo
                                                                                                                             MEASURE                                                                                                                                                                                                             bed                                                                                                   s.emocni                                                                                                                                   elinid                                                                                                                opl                                                                                                                                                      de                                                              cture.                                                                 d

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         provi                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d                                                                                                                                                       and                                                            infrastru                                                            satio                                       uptsrdila                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rem,                                                                                        tibiho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pol

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ent                                                                                                                                                                    anyt                                                                                                                                        ent.                                                                                                                byyelsocl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           satio
                 and/or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         enpm                                                                pai                                                           ages.st

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       be                                                                all                                   ofnoitp                                                                                                                                     satio                                                                                                                 pai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 en                                                                                                                                          um                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ectiont                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                enpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       redot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be                                                                                                                                                     stages                                                                                                                                enpm                                            nimim                                                                                                                                       opm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   equ                                                               co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                evrp                                                                                                                                        doc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            unity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   out.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ep                                                                                                                                                  ectojrpehtfo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d                                                                  stum                                                               at                                                                                                                                                                                      Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Devel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 racttn                                                                                                                   onim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                timil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       comm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 slo                                                                                         d                                                                 gnsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as
                       Minority,                                                                                                    MITIGATION                                                                                                                                         antnem                                                                oni                                                                                                      srudirod/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       stum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oni                                                                                                                                                    alltad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ffecteda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 riateporp                                      atdemai)                                                                                                                                       ytri                                                                                                                                                                  tostne                                                                                                                                           co                                                                                                                     bed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 carried                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           spee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ap                                            sed                                                                                                                                        noi                                                                                                                                                                     remiu                                                                                                                                        nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          local                                                                                                              ares                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   su                                                                                                                                                         dedelia


                                Ethnic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Resettle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eth                                                        ensatpmoC.                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       host                                    anseirteporp                                                                                                                            antnem


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Resettle                                                                                                        ensatpmoC.                                                              place.                                                                            affectee                                                             tnem                                                                                                                 ba                                                                                                                                         M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        det
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           keta                                                                                                                                                 tle                                                               set
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               thos                                                                                                                                  el                                                                                                                                                                                      cinh                                                                                                                                                                     req                                                                                                                                        ng                                                                                                                   oulhssr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        er                                                                                      lornt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Et                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                biddi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            eci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   asureem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         co

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with                                                                                                                                opep                                        ndal-n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              asuem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eht                                                                                                                                                                         sp                                                                                                                                       eht                                                                                                                  rkeows/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ngirudd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    closely                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s,ngsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yl

                                      Relocation,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         App                                                             ojectrpeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 eth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yl                                                                                                             ectjorp                                                                                                                                                                                                                          wen                                                                                                              nodna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   are                                                                                                                                       ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   atio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pact                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eredis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Discuss                                           im                                                                                                                                       App                                                                                                                 eht                                                              construction                                                                            Discuss                                                             for                                                             affected                                           ndal                                                                                                                                    ypl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ap                             project.                                                                                                                                    Prep                                                                                                                                     emht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         erpo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cont                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Work                                                                                                          appropriate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mitig                                                                                        pr                                                                     con

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              is                                                                                                                  d
                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dna
                                                                                                                                                                           ers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,                                                                                                                                 cause                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bility                                                                                                               create

                                                 quisition,                                                                                                                   wn
                                                           Ac                                                                                                                   ndoal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                resettledelpoep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               prove
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            emhttn                                                                                                                                                                    cantifingsi                                                                                                                                                         tionc                                                                                                                                 or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e,sion,st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   accessi                                                                                                                 s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nstru                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                ugrd

                                                             Landnehw                                                                         STCA                                   mofr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       illagevrotolp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                everp                                                                                                                                                                          cause                                                                                                                                                              co                                                                                                                            urceso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fromn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   benefit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          du,y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          es,


                                                                                                                                                  IMP                                    onitsiop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             istin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            yam                                                                                                                                                             ngri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           safet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              liv

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sitio                                                                                                                                     exeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nd/a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .sevildl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                upo                                                                                                                                                                         ng                                                                                                                                                               Du
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tural                                                                                                                     wi                                                                                                                                   s,d




                                                                     Measures                                                                        LAITNETOP                                   op
                                                                                                                                                                                                   nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ppood                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               na                                                                                                                     or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            annipl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ceed                                                                                                             wildfo                                                                                        issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ex

                                                                                                                                                                                                      oni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ann                                                                                                                                     wit                                                                                                           de-off"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            greht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the                                                                                                                    nd/as                                                                                                                               roatuo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tradela                                                                                        cialos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "tra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dna                                                                                                                                                        itats/areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yam

                                                                                                                                                                                                         factsiatssdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 actio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             agent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngitsi                                                                                                                                                              hab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 extract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ssatisfid                                                                                                                                (relo                                                                                                           ptable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               he
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          acce                              s).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dvaasdir                                                                                               lopmenevedeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onali                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            alth


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    se                                                                                                                                   areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fromg                                                       eatri                                                                                                                                                               no                                                                                                                            yam                                                                                                                   resiehtot                                                                                                                                  rat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      from                                                                                                          illegetomorp                                                                                           of
                                                                             Mitigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               na                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              hert                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nce                                                                                                                                  ope
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           op

                                                                                       and                                                                                                                           causenaC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cau                                                                                                                                     wen                                                                                                               n                              accesd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               users                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Can                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                              ofte                                roa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          funaC                                                                                                        fitineneb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     erb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             prpanI                                                                                                                                                         stcapmi                                                                                                                        srekrow                                                                                                                        ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            urstid                                                                                                                             gnri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Du                                                                                                                                     vibration                                                                                                                 may                                                                                         numa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eht                                                                                   ve                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                          n;                                                                                                                      s,d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  such                                                                                                                                                                                         lue                                                                                                                  by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 are

                                                                                          Impacts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ytri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ogicall                                                                                                                                                          va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                   Sensiti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        soils
                                                                                                                                                              Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             le                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             noi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wetlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    zones                                                                                                                       habitatio                                                             zones                             Bio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to

                                                                                                                                                               ITV

                                                                                                 Potential                                                                                                                   onitisiuq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              scenic                                                                                                            unaltered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       mountainous                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    when
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Peop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              hni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      esd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Areas,                                                                                                                                     high                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and;                                                                                                                             lyl

                                                                                                                                                                  ACTI
                                                                                                          4.                                                                                                                          Acd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cating

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Etevlov                                                                                                                                                                 evlovnI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       human                                                             important                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           adjacen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            inclu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              relatively                                                              archeological/historical                       sites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             els.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t                                                                                            National
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    callyi                                                                                                                                                                                      areas                                                                                                                    area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         especia                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            chann

                                                                                                            Table Involved                                                                                                                  12.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Relo2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           In32.                                                                                                                                                                   42.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        any                                                                                                           cultural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "Environmentally                                                                                                                               Areas"                                                                                                                        significan                                                                 ecolog                   as                Conservation                                                                                                                                    forests,                                                                                                                   or                                                                             humans,                             or                                                                                                                        terrain                                                                                 erodible                                                    water

                                                  Appendix A
           Additional Guidelines for Identification of Impacts and Mitigation Measure

A1. Identification of Impacts

The first step towards mitigating adverse environmental impacts is to identify those components of a project
which could potentially cause them - practice has shown that on any road project the effect of each
component activity is similar and therefore similar mitigation measures can be applied. However, activities
should be classified as different if they take place in different existing environments, for example different
terrains, where this could affect the impact the activity has.

The potential effects on the environment for the various aspects of road planning, design, and construction,
are given in Table No.1. The Table is divided into three sections, namely: the planning and design phases,
the construction mobilisation phase including ancillary operations, and the construction phase.

Each of the activities listed in Tables 1-4 are defined below with the corresponding item activity number
given in brackets.
     · Setting Design Standards - refers to decisions on standards such as width of carriageway and
          shoulders, design speed, minimum curve radius, maximum grade, cut slopes, etc., which can all
          have a major influence on the direct environmental effects. For any new roads, the IEE should
          address the effects of alternative design standards in detail.

     · Design in General - covers a number of aspects of the design process which can potentially affect
          the environmental impacts.

     · Drainage Design - identifies a number of potentially adverse environmental effects which can
          result from the design of the drainage system. This includes both culverts and longitudinal drainage.

     · Land Acquisition ­ refers to the process of obtaining land for road widening, re-alignment, or for
          constructing a new road. The potential effects have an impact on the social/cultural components of
          the environment rather than on the physical ones. For a new road a project-specific EIA should be
          carried out to address this matter in detail.

     · Relocating People - refers to the process (separate from any formal land acquisition) of moving
          people off land required for road widening or for constructing a new road. Those people who are
          required to be relocated may not have any formal right to the land but the potential social/cultural
          effects can be just as great. For any project a specific Resettlement Plan should be prepared to
          address this issue in detail.

     · Mobilising Equipment - include the delivery of materials, plant and equipment to the site before
          the work commences. It often involves the use of heavy transport vehicles which can cause air and
          noise pollution.

     · Mobilising Workforce ­ refers to the introduction of a workforce from outside the local area which
          can be culturally or ethnically different from the local population. This can cause social problems
          between the outsiders and the local people, as well as having an impact on the health and long-term
          economic well-being of the local community.

     · Establishment and Operation of a Labour Camp - refers to the camp established to house the
          workforce which could result in the pollution of watercourses and in a depletion of local resources
          such as timber which the local people may have been using on a sustainable basis.



                                                        7

· Establishment and Operation of Depot and Workshops - refers to the depot where construction
  equipment is kept and serviced, fuels and oils are stored, and materials are stockpiled. Although the
  site office and depot may sometimes be combined with the labour camp, the activities and the
  effects on the environment are different and should be assessed separately.

· Setting Up and Operation of an Asphalt Plant or Bitumen Preparation Area - is an activity
  which could involve setting up and operating a major mechanical asphaltic concrete production
  plant, including conveyors, oil fired rotary aggregate dryers/heaters and batch mixers. On the other
  hand, it may just involve heating aggregate and bitumen over open wood fires with hand mixing.

· Setting Up and Operating a Quarry or Borrow Pit - usually involves a mechanical digger
  removing suitable material from a selected site whether for extraction of stable fill from a borrow-
  pit for embankments, or a quarry operation to produce sub-base and base course material which
  would usually involve the use of explosives to first break up the rock.

· Setting Up and Operating a Quarry Winning Rock from River or Stream Beds - usually
  involves a mechanical digger for removing rocks of a suitable size for crushing from the river bed
  and loading them onto trucks, although sometimes the rocks are selected and loaded by hand.

· Setting Up and Operating a Rock Crushing Plant ­ this could be part of the quarry operation,
  part of the asphalt production plant, or part of the pug mill operation. A crushing and screening
  plant is a separate activity which has separate potential effects on the environment and involves the
  use of noisy mechanical equipment.

· Earthworks Involved in Widening in Flat Terrain - this activity generally involves only minor
  cut and fill operations however could involve removing significant roadside vegetation.

· Earthworks Involved in Widening in Steep Terrain or through Unstable Land --Dependant on
  the shape and width of the existing formation this activity would usually involve cut and fill
  operations. Widening of the road formation could involve removing significant roadside vegetation
  leading to destabilisation of cut faces.

· Earthworks Involved in Widening through Settlements - This could affect buildings, even if the
  widening takes place within the defined right of way, because they have often been constructed
  closer to the road than they should have been. Similarly paddy and crop land, access tracks or public
  utilities, could be affected.

· Drainage Improvement Works - the construction of all drainage works including cross drainage
  structures such as pipe and box culverts as well as longitudinal ditches alongside the road required
  to channel or control stormwater flow.

· Pavement Subbase and Basecourse Construction or Gravel Surfacing - These activities are
  similar and involve the placing and rolling of crushed stone or gravel pavement layers, with
  compaction using vibrating rollers, static rollers and/or rubber tyred rollers.

· Bituminous Surfacing -- is the placing and compaction of any of the various bitumen wearing
  surfaces such as single bituminous surface treatment (SBST), double bituminous surface treatment
  (DBST) or asphaltic concrete.

· Transport of Project Materials - includes the transport of earth, rock, gravel, crushed stone,
  bitumen, asphaltic concrete and any other material, or the transport of any equipment or plant, used
  during the construction.


                                                 8

Note: (1) "Environmentally Sensitive Areas" includes zones of significant human habitation; ecologically important zones such as
National Biological Conservation Areas, wetlands, forests, areas of high scenic value or any area relatively unaltered by humans,
archeological/historical or cultural sites; and mountainous terrain especially when soils are erodible and adjacent to surface water
channels. (2) Only the effects of road works activities on the environment are identified, not the effects of the environment on the
road, such as landslides caused by land clearance or underground water, or scour caused by flooding or meandering rivers, etc.
Designing roads to withstand these effects of the environment is an engineering problem.



A2. Environmental Mitigation Measures

Suggested practical mitigation measures for each potentially negative environmental impact of the identified
activities are also given in Tables 1-4 - these mitigation measures should be applied to any project which
includes the particular activity. It should be noted that many of the mitigating measures are normal sound
engineering practice.

In order to ensure that the necessary mitigation measures are applied in practice, as far as possible, they
should be integrated into the design and construction processes.

The measures for activities 1.4 `Land Acquisition' and 1.5 `Relocating People' should be included and
implemented under a detailed Resettlement Plan.

Monitoring is required to ensure that the specified mitigation measures are actually carried out and are
effective. By including clauses into the specification, monitoring and supervision of the application of these
measures is automatically included in the normal engineering supervision of the contract.

All potential effects and mitigating measures should be included in the terms of reference for those
supervising the construction, and should include interaction with the local authorities and local community,
so that the effects of the work on the community can be taken into account.

Annex B contains some suggested clauses for inclusion in the specification to ensure that certain mitigation
measures are carried out by the contractor. These clauses should be used with caution, and may need to be
reworded for specific contracts, to ensure that they do not conflict with other sections of the contract
documents.

The Specification should allow for immediate action by those supervising construction in case any
unforeseen environmental problems arise.

A3. Site Safety

Although site safety is not normally associated with environmental impacts, the proper use and protection of
the site is of environmental concern.

The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that safe working practices are complied with at all times, that plant
and equipment are maintained in a safe working condition, that appropriate safety equipment and clothing is both
provided and used, statutory requirements are complied with relating to crane testing, sling and shackle testing,
stability of deep excavations, proper design and erection of scaffolding, false work etc. The Contractor should
ensure that adequate first aid facilities are available at strategic locations on the site and that relevant responsible
personnel are aware of procedures to be followed immediately on the occurrence of an accident involving
personal injury. He is also required to ensure that adequate fire prevention measures are taken and appropriate
fire fighting facilities are provided at all relevant locations.


The Contractor should ensure that:-
     · All site personnel are familiar with safety procedures.

                                                                  9

    · That safe working procedures are adopted in all areas of the Works and that all scaffolding, lifting
        appliances and other plant and temporary works comply with the appropriate regulations.

    · Also, that proper precautions are taken at all times, including:
                -       Wearing of protective clothing and safety helmets
                -       Using safety equipment at appropriate times
                -       Displaying warning boards
                -       Roping off danger areas
                -       Excavations adjacent to public access to be properly barricaded and adequately lit at
                        night
                -       Blasting equipment to be kept under security conditions

Where a project includes quarrying activities the Contractor is responsible for ensuring compliance with all
relevant quarrying and mine regulations together with security arrangements for transport, storage, and use of
explosives and detonators.




                                                       10

                                                Appendix B
               Safeguard Requirements to be Included in the Technical Specification
                                   (should be modified as appropriate)

B1 General
   (a) The Contractor shall adhere to the mitigation measures set down and take all other measures
       required by the Engineer to prevent harm to, and to minimize the impact of his operations on, the
       environment along the road and shall ensure his employees do likewise.

   (b) Contractors shall not be permitted to unnecessarily strip clear the right of way. Contractors shall
       only clear and grub the minimum width for construction and diversion roads should not be
       constructed alongside the existing road but offset if this would minimise deforestation.

   (a) Remedial actions which cannot be effectively carried out during construction should be carried out
      on completion of each section of the road (earthworks, pavement and drainage) and before issue of
      the Taking Over Certificate:
           · these sections should be landscaped and any necessary remedial works should be
                undertaken without delay, including grassing and reforestation;
           · water courses should be cleared of detritus, drains and culverts checked for clear flow
                paths;
           · borrow pits should be dressed as fish ponds, or drained and made safe, as agreed with the
                land owner.

   (d) The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6am and 10pm if it is to be carried out in
       or near residential areas.

   (e) The contractor shall avoid the use of heavy or noisy equipment in specified areas late at night, or in
       sensitive areas such as near a hospital.

   (f) To prevent dust pollution during dry periods the Contractor shall carry out regular watering of earth
       and gravel haul roads and shall cover material haulage trucks with tarpaulins to prevent spillage.

B2 Transport
   (a) The Contractor shall use selected routes, as agreed with the Engineer, and appropriately sized
       vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to prevent damage to roads and bridges
       used for transportation purposes to the project site. The Contractor shall be held responsible for any
       damage caused to the roads and bridges due to the transportation of excessive loads, and shall be
       required to make good such damage to the approval of the Engineer.

   (b) The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road, whose exhaust or noise emissions
       are grossly excessive, and in any built up areas noise mufflers shall be installed and maintained in
       good condition on all motorised equipment under the control of the Contractor.

   (c) Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout the duration of
       the Contract and such measures shall be subject to prior approval of the Engineer.

B3 Mobilisation
   (a) The Contractor shall recruit locally as large a proportion of the workforce as is possible, and shall
       provide appropriate training where necessary.

   (b) The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any residential labour
       camp established and ensure that this does not cause any pollution of nearby watercourses. The


                                                    11

       contractor shall also make the system inoperative and safe on completion of the contract and the
       removal of the camp.

   (c) The Contractor shall establish a method and system for storing and disposing of all solid wastes
       generated by the labour camp and/or storage depot.

   (d) The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuelwood for heating or cooking in any labour camp or
       depot but shall provide alternate facilities using other fuels.

   (e) The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, concrete plant and workshops are located in
       appropriate areas, as approved by the Engineer, and not within 500 metres of existing residential
       settlements.

   (f) The Contractor shall also ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage areas for diesel
       and bitumen are not located within 500 metres of watercourses, and are operated so that no
       pollutants enter watercourses, either overland or through groundwater seepage, especially during
       periods of heavy rain. This will require lubricants to be recycled and a ditch to be constructed
       around the area with an approved settling pond/oil trap at the outlet ­ the following precautions
       shall be taken:
       (i) stockpile sites for drums are to be reasonably level and kept clear of undergrowth and rubbish;

       (ii) drums containing cleaning oil should be stacked on end with the filling hole upwards and
            tilted (by resting one side on a piece of timber) to prevent water accumulating on the top of the
            drum;

       (iii) drums containing kerosine, fuel oil, and cut-back bitumen should be stacked on their sides
            with the filling hole upwards. The bungs should be tested for tightness when stacking, and at
            regular intervals during storage;

       (iv) drums of bitumen emulsion may be stacked on end or on their sides, but if stored for any
            length of time the drums should be rolled regularly;

       (v) when filling a bitumen distributor tank or kettle with bitumen, in preparation for heating, it is
            essential to check and ensure that there is no water in the tank prior to loading, as this will
            cause a violent expansion of the bitumen with consequent frothing and boiling over;

       (vi) during the blending of bitumen with kerosine (diluent) for the manufacture of cut-back
            bitumen, the temperature will rise above the flash point of the diluent. (Kerosine has a flash
            point of 140o C). No naked flames or smoking should be allowed in the vicinity of the
            blending tank, and the temperature of the bitumen to be cut back should be kept as low as
            possible;

       (vii) water should not be used when fighting a fire in a bitumen tank. The contractor should provide
            and maintain on site a carbon dioxide (CO2) extinguisher for fire fighting purposes.

   (g) The contractor shall not use fuelwood as a means of heating during the processing or preparation of
       any materials forming part of the Works.

B4 Quarries and Borrow Pits
   (a) Operation of a new borrow area, on land or in river, or to operate an existing area, shall be subject
       to prior approval of the Engineer, and the operation shall cease if so instructed by the Engineer.
       Borrow pits shall be prohibited where they might interfere with the natural or designed drainage
       patterns. River locations shall be prohibited where they might undermine or damage the river banks
       or cause too much fine material to be carried downstream.
                                                     12

     (b) The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy condition with stable
         side slopes, and drained so that no stagnant water bodies are created which could breed mosquitos.

     (c) Rock or gravel won from a river shall be removed over some distance so as to limit the depth of
         material removed to one tenth of the width of river at any one location, and not disrupt the river
         flow or damage or undermine the river banks.

     (d) The location of crushing plants shall be subject to the approval of the Engineer, and not close to
         environmentally sensitive areas or to existing residential settlements, and shall be operated with
         approved dust control devices fitted.

B5 Earthworks
     (a) Earthworks shall be properly controlled, especially during the rainy season.

     (b) The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and shall cause the minimum
         possible disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.

     (c) The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any one location as
         soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation and not leave partly completed
         earthworks, especially during the rainy season.

     (d) In order to protect any cut or fill slopes from erosion, in accordance with the drawings, cut off
         drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and bottom of slopes and be planted with grass or
         other plant cover:
         (i) the maximum design cut slope should be 2:1 (vertical to horizontal) with provision to flatten
               the slope in areas of soft soils. Berms 1:0m wide should be constructed in cut slopes greater
               than 5:0m;

         (ii) cut off drains should be provided above high cuts to minimise water runoff and erosion of the
               slope;

     (e) Any excavated cut or unsuitable material shall be disposed of in designated tipping areas as agreed
         by the Engineer.

     (f) Tips should not to be located where they can cause future slides, interfere with agricultural land or
         any other properties or cause soil from the dump to be washed into any watercourse. Drains may
         need to be dug within and around the tips, as directed by the Engineer.

B6 Drainage Works
     (a) The road drainage system should be designed so as to ensure that storm runoff is not concentrated
         such as to cause erosion;

     (b) longitudinal drains should be lined or have check stops to slow the water flow and prevent drainage
         where the slope of the drain is greater than 5%. Drains should be lined where the slope is greater
         that 10%;

(b) the Contractor should construct temporary drains and temporary sedimentation basins or brushwood
    barriers in order to avoid excessive sedimentation entering local streams, river or lakes.




                                                      13

                                                  Appendix C.
                Guidelines for Preparation of Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)

The scope and contents of an IEE should include, but not limited to,:
Item                        Scope                                               Details
  1    Brief description of the proposed project works   This should include a description of the geographic
                                                         area where the project is to be undertaken, the length
                                                         of the road, and the towns and major villages through
                                                         which the road passes. A brief technical summary of
                                                         the project, including topography, bridging as well as
                                                         the existing and proposed class of road.
  2    Description of the relevant components of the     The environment is generally described under the
       environment adjacent to the project, particularly following headings:
       in   areas  considered      as   "environmentally (c) Physical Resources
       sensitive"                                            (i)    Topography
                                                             (ii)   Soil and geology
                                                             (iii)  River systems and hydrology
                                                         (d) Ecological Resources
                                                             (i)    Fisheries and other aquatic resources
                                                             (ii)   Forest resources
                                                             (iii)  Flora and fauna
                                                         (c) Human and Economic Development
                                                             (i)    Population and demographic
                                                             (ii)   Ethnic composition
                                                             (iii)  Social economic conditions
                                                             (iv)   Health and sanitation
                                                             (v)    Agricultural activities
                                                             (vi)   Other economic activities
                                                             (vii) Development assistance
                                                         (d) Quality of Life Values
                                                             (i)    Archaeological, historical and cultural
                                                                    values
                                                             (ii)   Transport infrastructure
                                                             (iii)  Unexploded ordnance (UXO)

  3    A short report on any public consultations        This report should include names and details of those
       carried out.                                      consulted, any suggestions made, and how these
                                                         were incorporated into any proposed mitigation
                                                         measures.
  4    An assessment of the direct effects of the        The    assessment    should   screen     the   potential
       specific road works activity on the relevant      environmental impacts and is generally considered
       component of the existing environment.            under the following headings:
                                                         (a) Environmental Effects Related to Project
       Note: Environmental information should be:            Location and Design
                                                             (i)    Location issues
       · Unbiased:      with     both   advantages  and      (ii)   Impacts on fauna and flora (see Annex D)
           disadvantages described impartially;              (iii)  Land use and resettlement
                                                             (iv)   Encroachment on historical and cultural
       · Easy to read: clear, non-technical language                sites
           should be used, with the information              (v)    Interference with drainage patterns and
           presented   in   a    logical   manner using             water quality
           appropriate maps, photographs, diagrams,          (v)    Effect on other utilities and traffic
           sketches, etc, for illustration.                  (vi)   Visual effects and aesthetics

                                                         (b) Environmental Effects Related to Project
                                                             Construction
                                                             (i)    Natural vegetation and wildlife
                                                             (ii)   Land use and settlements

                                                        14

                                                            (iii)  Health and safety
                                                            (iv)   Erosion and silt control
                                                            (v)    Nuisance to areas of human settlement
                                                            (vi)   Interference with utilities and traffic

                                                        (c) Environmental Effects Related to Operation
                                                            (i)    Operation and maintenance capacity
                                                            (ii)   Noise, vibration, dust, spills and runoff of
                                                                   hazardous materials
                                                            (iii)  Land use and settlements
                                                            (iv)   Social impacts
                                                            (v)    Gender issues
                                                            (vi)     Ethnic minorities

5  Determine either:                                    Determinants for roads are:
   · there       are    no     significant     adverse  (a) Will the project create unwarranted losses in
        environmental impacts in which case a               previous/irreplaceable     natural      or    other
        summary IEE should be prepared with any             resources?
        mitigation measures to address or lessen        (b) Will the project make unwarranted accelerated
        the specific potential effects identified; or       use of scare resources in favour of short-term
  · there are significant adverse environmental             over long-term economic gains?
       impacts which are required to be considered      (b) Will the project adversely depreciate the national
       in more detail and an EIA is required.               energy and/or foreign exchange problem to an
                                                            unwarranted degree?
   NOTES:                                               (c) Will the project result in unwarranted hazards to
   (a) All environmental impacts which are likely           endangered species?
   to be significant should be assessed. There is no    (d) Will the changes in surface hydrology caused by
   general    definition    of    what     constitutes      the    project   result    in     impairment     of
   significance in this context but the following           fisheries/aquatic ecology, or of other beneficial
   factors should be considered:                            water uses?
                                                        (e) Will the construction operations protect against
       (i)       the relative importance of the             excessive erosion/silt runoff from cut and fill
       environment ie is it of national, provincial,        areas, including use of temporary holding ponds,
       or local importance;                                 with post-construction landscaping?
       (ii)      the   degree      to    which      the (f) Will    the  project    include    provisions   for
       environment is affected eg if its quality is         monitoring to ensure contractor's compliance
       enhanced or impaired;                                with specified constraints and will any post-
       (iii)     the scale of the change eg the land        construction monitoring be needed to ensure
       area, number of people affected and degree           adequate environmental protection?
       of change from the existing situation. The       (g) Will    the   project    result    in   undesirable
       scale of change resulting from cumulative            resettlement to an unwarranted degree?
       impacts;                                         (h) Will the project tend to increase the "income
       (iv)      whether the effect is temporary (if        gap" between the poor and the more affluent
       temporary its duration) or permanent;                sectors?
       (v)       the degree of mitigation that can be
       achieved.                                        An analysis of environmental effects with suggested
                                                        mitigation measures (Tables 1-4) are considered in
                                                        detail in Appendix A.

6  Environmental Action Plan and/or Mitigation          An action/mitigation plan should outline the
   Plan                                                 provisions for environmental protection which
                                                        should be included in the Technical Specification
                                                        (Appendix B).




                                                       15

