Environmental and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction,
PO Box 2158, Lane Xang Avenue, Vientiane Lao PDR




             Strategic Environmental Assessment

                                              Part A



         Safeguards Issues and Strategic Mitigations




     Road Maintenance Program ­ Part 2 (2004 ­2007)




                               Prepared by The ESD, DOR-MCTPC




                                                                        1-1

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




PART A          SAFEGUARDS ISSUES AND STRATEGIC MITIGATIONS



PART B          INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION AND
                ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

.

PART C          OPERATING PROCEDURES, OPERATING AIDS                 AND ACTION
                PLAN FOR INCORPORATING THE EMP INTO RMP-2




                                                                            1-2

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

                        TABLE of CONTENTS

1    OVERVIEW..............................................................................................................1-5

2    BACKGROUND........................................................................................................2-7

  2.1    DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES OF MCTPC AND RMP.................................................2-8
  2.2    THE ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM ......................................................................2-8
     2.2.1      RMP-1 .........................................................................................................2-8
     2.2.2      RMP-2 .......................................................................................................2-10

3    PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND LESSONS LEARNT......................................3-12

  3.1    DEVELOPMENT OF POLICY AND REGULATIONS .......................................................3-12
  3.2    ESTABLISHMENT OF ESD .......................................................................................3-14
  3.3    EXPERIENCE OF OTHER PROJECTS ..........................................................................3-15
     3.3.1      ADB Poverty Assessment............................................................................3-15
     3.3.2      ADB Road projects.....................................................................................3-16
     3.3.3      LSRSP-1/2 and RMP-1...............................................................................3-18
     3.3.4      ESD ­ Activities and Performance .............................................................3-21
     3.3.5      Performance of Contractors.......................................................................3-23
  3.4    OUTSTANDING ISSUES ............................................................................................3-24

4    STRATEGY.............................................................................................................4-26

  4.1    OBJECTIVES OF THE SEA, IEE AND EMP ..............................................................4-26
  4.2    CONSULTATION AND COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION................................................4-30
  4.3    CAPACITY BUILDING..............................................................................................4-31
     4.3.1      ESD ...........................................................................................................4-31
     4.3.2      DCTPC ......................................................................................................4-32
     4.3.3      MCTPC......................................................................................................4-32
     4.3.4      Contractors................................................................................................4-32
  4.4    GUIDELINES AND MANUALS...................................................................................4-33
  4.5    ROLE OF ESD IN RMP-2........................................................................................4-33
  4.6    STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES....................................................................4-33
  4.7    PUBLIC INFORMATION AND COMPENSATION ..........................................................4-40




                                                                                                                               1-3

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

                                            Acronyms

ADB         Asian Development Bank
AP          Affected Persons
DCTPC       District Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
DoE         Department of Environment (STEA)
DOR         Department of Roads
DOT         Department of Transport
DPRA        Development Project Responsible Agency
EA          Environmental Assessment
EGRP        Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EMDP        Ethnic Minority Development Plans
EMIS        Environmental Management Information System
EMP         Environmental Management Plans
EMU         Environmental Management Unit
EPL         Environmental Protection Law
ERI         Environmental Research Institute
ESD         Environmental and Social Division
ESSF        Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOL         Government of Laos
IDA         International Development Assistance
IEE         Initial Environmental Examination
ISA         Initial Social Assessment
IUCN        International Union for the Conservation of Nature
LRN         Local Road Network
LSRSP       Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project
MCTPC       Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
NBCA        National Biodiversity Conservation Area
NDF
NGO         Non-Government Organizations
NR          National Roads
OD          Operational Directive
OP          Operational Policy
PAP         Project Affected Person
PCCA        Provincial Committee for the Control of Aids
RA          Resettlement Arbitrator
RAD         Road Administration Division
RCG         Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines
REA         Regulations for Environmental Assessment
RMP         Road Maintenance Program
RP          Resettlement Plans
SEA         Strategic Environmental Assessment
SIA         Social Impact Assessment
SIDA        Swedish International Development Assistance
STEA        Science, Technology and Environment Agency
TA          Technical Assistance
TOR         Terms of Reference
WWF         World Wildlife Fund

                                                                            1-4

Environmental and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




1                 OVERVIEW

RMP-2. The Government of Lao PDR (GoL) is preparing, with the support of the World
Bank, the second phase of the Road Maintenance Program (the Project or RMP-2). The
Project aims to achieve the following main objectives: (i) Central and provincial public staff
utilize sustainable financing, management and operational procedures to maintain and operate
the whole road network more efficiently and safely nationwide; and (ii) District staff and local
communities increasingly utilize new management tools and shared financing to improve and
maintain the local road network more efficiently and safely in most areas nationwide. The
Project has been designed taken into account, the experiences and lesson learned on the
technical, financial management, and safeguards aspects from the first phase activities (RMP-
1). The Project is expected to comprise three components: (i) Preservation of the road
networks (US$64.2 million); (ii) Capacity Building (US$10.1 million); and (iii) Project
administration (US$1.0 million). Financing is expected to come from various sources (IDA,
SIDA, NDF, Japan and GoL), including the Road Maintenance Fund which has been
established under RMP-1. The Project activities will cover the whole country (18
provinces/special zone) and a programmatic approach will be used for identification and
implementation of the civil works (subprojects).

Safeguard Policies. To comply with the World Bank safeguard policies, the Ministry of
Communication, Transportation, Post and Construction (MCPCT) proposed to apply the
Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects (EGRP) and the Resettlement and Compensation
Guidelines (RCG), which were developed and applied in RMP-1. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for RMP-2, namely "Safeguards Policies, Social and Environmental
Issues Summary", was publicly announced in the newspaper on 27 February 2004.

Safeguards Issues. In views of the nationwide and programmatic nature of RMP-2 and the
implementation experience of RMP-1, the World Bank raised concerns on the potential
impacts of the Project. The main areas of concerns related to the maintenance operations
(construction phase) including the following: the lack of supervisory budget for
environmental and social impacts monitoring; the limited capacity of the implementing units
responsible for social and environmental performance (ESD and DTCPC); potential adverse
impacts in sensitive areas; and compliance performance of contractors, especially in the areas
of road safety, dust, disposal of wastes, location and treatment of borrow pits/quarries, and
consultation with local communities. Other concerns noted are related to the post-
maintenance phase of the Project and include dust re-suspension, road safety, community
participation, and encroachment onto the road right-of-way.

Actions Taken. To address these concerns, MCPCT (assisted by consultants) has conducted
an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for RMP-2 in line with the GoL guidelines and
prepared a set of strategic actions to be carried out under RMP-2. Although adverse impacts
are not anticipated, a safeguard screening will be carried out. A Environmental and Social
Safeguard Framework (ESSF) has been developed for the Project and it will be applied to all
the civil works subprojects. An Ethnic Minority Development Policy (EMDP) has also been
developed for RMP-2. To ensure effective implementation of the guidelines and frameworks,
the EGRP and RCG have been reviewed and updated given due consideration to improve
consultation and information disclosure, close monitoring of contractor performance, and to
also address the issues related to the post-construction phase of the Project. The EGRP, the



                                                                                       1-5

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

RCG, and the EMDP will be applied when appropriate. An action plan, including a number of
specific operational guidelines/manuals has also been prepared.

To ensure consistency of the mitigation measures to be carried out in RMP-2, the proposed
EMP for the Project, which was publicly announced on 27 February 2004, has also been
updated to include the ESSF, the EMDP, the RCG, and the EGRP that have been
developed/updated for the Project (see details in Appendix 1).

This SEA report comprises two parts: Part A ­ Background and Strategic Actions and Part B -
Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE), prepared according to the GoL requirements. The
report presents the key findings of the IEE and the strategic actions to be carried out in RMP-
2 to mitigate the potential negative impacts to be carried out under RMP-2. The strategic
actions aim to (a) prevent or mitigate any adverse social and environmental impacts of civil
works subprojects and promote consultation and information disclosure, (b) facilitate
mainstreaming of safeguard procedures and guidelines into DOR's operations, (c) enhance
capacity of ESD and MCTPC both at central and provincial levels, and (d) identify priority
programs to improve DOR's capacity to address the safeguard issues. Funding for the
activities will be required from the Project. Effective execution of the mitigation plan will
ensure that the Project meets with the requirements of the Bank's safeguard policies and will
also significantly increase DOR's capacity to address the environment and social issues
related to road development and maintenance activities. This will also demonstrate
DOR/MCTPC commitment towards sustainable development and maintenance of roads.

Information Disclosure. The SEA report and the updated EMP for the Project (Safeguards
Policies, Social and Environmental Issues Summary, Updated for RMP-2) will be translated
in Lao language and these reports will be made available for public review at MCTPC offices
both at the central and provincial levels.     Overview
.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        1-6

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



2     BACKGROUND

The Government of Lao P.D.R. has been active in promoting economic growth through the
implementation of national policies aimed at alleviating poverty, regional co-operation and
bilateral co-operative ties. Gross Domestic Product in the Capital area has grown several fold
since 1996 to US$ 795 compared with a national average of US$360. Educational and health
services have also improved. The rural sector provides for ¼ of the GDP even though the
rural population exceeds 80% of the total. The vehicle fleet has grown roughly in proportion
to the growth in GDP.

These data demonstrate the strong regional imbalances in econonomic conditions that exist
across the country caused mainly by a lack of accessibility across the country. It is estimated
that half of the rural population has had limited access to markets and basic social services.
This has slowed the transformation of the agricultural sector from subsistence farming to a
market orientated system, one of the main objectives of the government. It has also hindered
the development of efficient land use, local small industries and improving the educational,
health and public services of the rural population. Without improvements in access and the
development of the market economy it would be extremely difficult to eradicate the illegal
and often environmentally harmful practices such as opium cultivation, used to generate
income in remoter areas.

To rectify these problems the government has promoted improvement in the transport sector.
Between 1990 and 2000, the majority of the funds (about US$ 500 million) for the road sector
were allocated to main national network resulting in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
about 2500 km of roads. External sources provided most of the funds with some contribution
by GOL. Over this period, road traffic on main national roads has increased an average 2.7
times but there are some road sections where the growth has exceeded a factor of 6i.
However, traffic levels are generally low. Most of the national roads have an ADT less than
500 vehicles /day. Provincial roads have an ADT less than 100 with exceptions around
Vientiane and some major Provincial centers. Accidents have increased by 50%. Severe
overloading is common on certain sections of the road network.

The increase in traffic has led to several new issues that are currently a serious threat to the
road network assets. These are:

    Ø Deteriorationoftheroadnetworkatanalarmingraterequiringmajorinvestmentsroad
        maintenance and its management,
    Ø Aneedforstrictlawenforcementonexcessiveoverloadingand
    Ø Improvementintrafficsafety.

The concept of regular road maintenance as an alternative to uncontrolled deterioration and
the major rehabilitation has been gradually accepted during the series of IDA/NDF financed
highway improvement programs between 1995 and 2000. During the Third Highway
Improvement Project a program of regular maintenance was developed for the whole National
Road Network with a considerable degree of delegation of authorities to the DCTPCs.       It has
also become evident that the provincial district and rural roads making up the local network
needed maintenance and was under-funded. To correct this imbalance, the Government




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        2-7

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

endorsed a national strategy for feeder road1 construction incorporating capacity building at
the local level in the management of road upgrading and subsequent road maintenance.


2.1     Development Objectives of MCTPC and RMP


The MTCTPC outlined its strategic policy for the development of the road sector to year 2010
at a round table meeting with the donors held in June 2000. The policy is:

    Ø Delegationofauthoritiestotheregionalanddistrictlevelswithintheircapacity
    Ø Appropriatebalancebetweeninvestmentsandmaintenance,
    Ø Protectionoftheroadassetsthroughmaintenance
    Ø Connectingtheprovincialanddistrictcenterswithfocalpointsofeconomicactivityin
        rural areas with all-weather road network
    Ø Preventingoverloadingoftheroads
    Ø Increasingtrafficsafety
    Ø Minimizingnegativeenvironmentalandsocialimpacts
    Ø Encouragingcommunityparticipationinroadsectoractivities

In response to this policy, the Government has adopted a Transport Development Plan for
2001- 2005 which includes the following urgent tasks:

    1. Completion of the National Road Network, international links with the neighboring
        countries including access to the sea ports in central Vietnam.
    2. Improving the Provincial Road Network
    3. Establishing sustainable maintenance management system to preserve the Country's
        road infrastructure.
    4. Coordinate the Greater Mekong Sub-region multi-modal transport network
        development with neighboring countries.


A core activity in relation to Item 3 in the Transport Development Plan has been the
preparation of a long-term road network maintenance and investment plan up to the year
2010. This plan is based using an integrated road management system for all categories of
roads this requires all Donors to recognize and support this "one country- one system"
principle.


2.2     The Road Maintenance Program

         2.2.1         RMP-1


The RMP project was established in 2001 in line with Transport Development Plan. It was to
last nine years and consists of two phases RMP-1 and RMP-2. The purpose of the RMP is the
sustainable preservation of the road assets, indirectly aiming at the overarching goal of
increasing social and economical development of the country. The long-term development
objective is appropriate mechanisms to manage and finance the maintenance of all roads in


1Roads linking rural settlements to National and Provincial Road network.



Ed Wronski                      5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                   2-8

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

Lao PDR (including National, Provincial, District and Rural roads but excluding urban and
special roads)2

 The planned outputs of RMP were::

1. Additional financial resources for maintenance are mobilized, efficiently and effectively
    used and strictly controlled
2. Road management and maintenance procedures established based on a balance between
    road user and road agency needs.
3. Sufficient capacity of institutions to implement road management activities at the central
    and provincial level
4. Local consulting and contracting and industry providing adequate and qualified services
    and works for road management
5. Overloading of the road network is reduced
6. Road users/beneficiaries participate in the delivery and management of road maintenance
    activities

In accordance with the "one country- one system" principle all complementary maintenance
projects financed by other donors, will have the same objectives/outputs above.             The
government recognizes the importance of poverty alleviation and improving the living
standards of the rural poor by requiring RMP to be flexible and cooperate with other projects
concerned with these issues. For this reason it has incorporated into RMP's prioritization of
maintenance works, "focal" districts determined largely on the basis of the need for poverty
alleviation.

While RMP-1 was to incorporate environmental and social considerations in implementation
of RMP-1, the institutional capacity and mechanisms for doing this were limited. This was to
be addressed by complimentary programs by other donors within the MCTPC.

RMP's focus is on routine, periodic and renewal works, which will not extend beyond the
limits of the road formation, other than re-cutting side drains and the cutting of vegetation for
maintenance and safety reasons.          The only exceptions to this being the construction of
culverts as part of periodic and renewal maintenance works, the development of borrow areas
and quarries, and the cutting of young trees of local wood for side posts and other purposes of
the works. Environmental and social impacts are potentially minimal except for road sections
that need significant rehabilitation or major works through protected areas.

Safeguard category and arrangement.

RMP-1 was assigned a category B since it was assessed that the project had few
environmental or social risks associated with it. Environmental issues associated with the
project were deemed to be temporary and localized in nature. Mitigation measures for
maintenance activities are known and if applied in practice would eliminate most
environmental risks. As the maintenance program was only to be on existing roads, the
incremental induced effects were assessed to be minimal. The assigned environmental
category was deemed to be consistent with Bank practice and was fully consistent with Annex
B of OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.



2Definitions according to Lao Road Law, 1999 and Ministerial Decision # 1312, 1997.



Ed Wronski                     5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        2-9

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



No separate environmental assessment was prepared because of the nature of impacts as well
as the programmatic nature of the loan. It was proposed that once established, the
Environment and Social Division (ESD) of the Department of Roads would screen all the
maintenance activities to ensure that no adverse impacts occur and will oversee the
implementation, including submission of the monitoring report. Given an understanding that
ADB will provide technical assistance to ESD, there was no budget allocation from RMP1 to
ensure effective implementation of the guidelines or to build capacity of ESD and MCTPC

Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects (EGRP) were prepared for RMP-1 and
considered as a plan to mitigate the potential negative impacts on the environment. Although
land acquisition and relocation were not expected, as a safeguard measure, a Resettlement and
Compensation Guidelines (RCG) were also prepared in cases where land acquisition and
resettlement may be required.

No specific triggering of the Bank's OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and OD 4.20 on
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities) was reported. The maintenance works has been
conducted along existing alignments and has not involved any resettlement. There was one
case on land acquisition where a small plot of land is required. Review of documents and
records confirmed that the RCG was satisfactory applied. With regard to ethnic minorities
living in the vicinity of the project area, there does not appear to be any specific concerns that
have arisen which relates directly to any particular ethnic minority group that has required the
development of an Ethnic Minorities Development Plan or Strategy. Issues raised by local
communities were observed to be adequately dealt with by the project guidelines relating to
resettlement standards, environmental protection, and the contractual provisions imposed on
contractors. Experience from RMP-1 provinces generally reflects the fact that project impacts
are not ethnic group-specific but relate to all communities in the project area.


         2.2.2    RMP-2

The Government of Lao PDR is preparing, with the support of the World Bank, the second
phase of the Road Maintenance Program (RMP ­ Phase 2).               A Japanese grant has been
approved for Lao PDR to finance the preparation studies of the RMP-2 under the supervision
of the grant implementing agency, the Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and
Construction (MCTPC), more specifically its Department of Roads (DOR) and Department of
Transport (DOT). The study comprises seven components. This Strategic Environmental
Assessments (SEA) is prepared under Terms of Reference (TOR) for component E of the
preparation studies ­ Environmental and Social Assessment of RMP-2 and incorporates an
Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) of the project according to guidelines specified
under the Lao Environmental Law. (Regulations for Environmental Assessment, Lao PDR,
2001

The type of works to be undertaken in RMP-2 is classified as periodic maintenance and
routine maintenance. Both activities involve repairs and to some extent rehabilitation of roads,
Periodic maintenance generally involves the application of earth materials won from borrow
pits and quarries (Table 1). Routine maintenance activities do not require access to borrow
pits or quarries and utilize unskilled labour to a greater extent (Table 2). Some routine
maintenance activities such as road grading and repairs still need to be undertaken in
conjunction with skilled labour under the supervision of contractors and can also involve
tendering. Roadside maintenance activities referred to also as village-based maintenance



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        2-10

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

activities (Table 2) are undertaken using contracts made between the district CTPC or the
Provincial DCTPC and the head of village families or in some cases with the head of a
village.

The periodic maintenance program for 2004/5 it is planned that a total of       825 km will to
undergo maintenance in 12 provinces at an estimated cost of $US9.8 million (Appendix ) out
of a total budget for preservation of the road network of $62 million to be spent over three
years. The provincial DCTPC is the manger and employer of contractors. The central
government provides overall guidance and advice in relation to the design and
implementation of the works.

Safeguard category and arrangement.

As the proposed Project has been categorized as a Category B classification as per the Bank's
OP 4.01 for the purpose of Environmental Assessment a full EIA is not required. This
categorization is consistent with that under the Lao Law. However the Lao law requires that
an Initial Environmental Examination be undertaken which also must incorporate an
environmental management plan. The EMP contained in the IEE will be an evolving
documents addressing the environmental and social issues that are expected in a general sense
but also containing specific reference to the areas to be maintained in the coming year.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                     2-11

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



3     PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND LESSONS LEARNT

3.1     Development of policy and regulations

Environmental impact assessment and the preparation of environmental management plans
have been undertaken by large projects in the Lao PDR for some time. The quality of the
reports produced approach and sometimes exceeds international standards set by the World
Bank and the ADB. Since the Nam Ngum 1 project over a decade ago, the involvement of the
ministries with such activities has increased.           This has provided useful accumulated
experience to assist in the drafting of a legal framework covering such activities.

The general provisions of the Environmental Protection Law of 1999 for the Lao PDR states
that "The government directs and supports environmental protection by providing:

1. Relevant data and information;
2. Raising public awareness and providing education to the citizens to see the importance of
    the environment for their daily life, and
3. Supports a strict adherence to the environmental policy and legislation of the Lao PDR".

The provisions go on to state five basic principles for Environmental Protection. These are:

1. Environmental protection shall be the priority consideration and environmental mitigation
    and restoration are considered to be less preferable, but also important activities;
2. The national socio-economic development plan shall include provisions to protect the
    environment and natural resources;
3. All persons and organizations residing in the Lao PDR shall have an obligation to protect
    the environment;
4. Whoever causes damage to the environment is responsible for the impact under the law;
    and
5. Natural resources, raw materials and energy shall be used in an economical manner, which
    minimizes pollution and waste and allows for sustainable development.

Article 23 of the Environmental Protection Law (EPL) states that "all Environmental
Management and Monitoring Organizations at all levels (i.e. central provincial and regional
government organizations) must issue environmental quality standards and regulations for
pollution control as under their responsibilities".

A set of Regulations for Environmental Assessment (REA), 2001 have been issued defining
in greater detail, the responsibilities of project developers and government agencies with
regard to environmental management and monitoring under the Environmental Law. In the
case of RMP, the respective government agency is MCTPC and the project owner is the
DCTPC. Irrespective of whether a full EIA or an IEE have been completed, for the project,
according to the REA (2001),

1. The project owner is directly responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the project
    environment

2. The project owner must produce an environmental management plan which must contain

         Ø Measurestopreventandminimizeenvironmentalimpacts




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                      3-12

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

         Ø Programsforenvironmentcontrolandmonitoring

         Ø Responsibilities organization schedule and budget for implementation of the
             EMP and other issues the DRPA may deem necessary for the protection of the
             environment

3. Project owners or their environment units must establish monthly reports on project
    environment monitoring addressing the following issues given below.

         Ø Generalcontentsofenvironmentalmonitoringreport

         Ø Summaryofeffectsofprojectpredictedduringprojectplanning

         Ø Summaryofeffectsobservedtodateincludingpredictedandunpredictedeffects

         Ø Projects compliance with environmental design including environment protection
             and control, mitigation reimbursement and comparison measures

         Ø Resultsofongoingmonitoringofspecificbiophysicalandsocio-economic effects
             including comparison of baseline and monitoring results

         Ø Recommendedadjustmentstoprojectoperationsandreason

         Ø Recommendedadjustmentstomonitoringprogramandreason

         Ø Otherrecommendationsandconclusions

4. The environmental monitoring report must be sent to both STEA and the DPRA who may
    then compile the information in their databases.

5. The monitoring activities of the Development Project Responsible Agency (DPRA)
    involve "inspection of the implementation of monitoring (by the project) and evaluation of
    the project environment". .

6. STEA is to provide guidance in relation to the DPRA monitoring activities, but still has
    the right "to inspect the project and ensure the implementation of project environment
    monitoring and evaluation".


A draft Decree On Resettlement and Compensation is currently in the process of becoming
law. Extensive guidelines have been prepared by STEA to assist in implementing this decree.
The decree and guidelines apply to projects and agencies in the Lao PDR including the
MCTPC and DCTPC.

The decree stipulates a basic principle of project design is that resettlement is to be avoided
or, if unavoidable, minimized by examining all design options available to the project.
Losses incurred by affected persons (AP) are to redressed such that AP's share project
benefits, and are assisted to develop their economic, social and cultural potential in order to
improve or at least restore their incomes and living standards to pre-project levels and to ensure they
are not worse off than they would have been without the project.

    Ø Attention is to be paid to affected ethnic minority and other vulnerable groups,
        especially the poor, in order to enhance their future prospects and for poverty alleviation.
    Ø Theentireresettlementprocessiscarriedoutthroughameaningfulinvolvementofproject-
        affected communities, and their existing social and cultural institutions are supported to
        the greatest extent feasible.
    Ø Resettlementisenvisionedandcarriedoutasanintegralpartofthedevelopmentproject
.



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                             3-13

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



3.2     Establishment of ESD


The Environment and Social Division (ESD) of DOR was established in 1998 so that MCTPC
could meet its legal obligations under the new environmental protection law with respect to
managing social and environment issues associated with road development in Lao PDR. At
the time it was established it consisted of a single person within the Planning and Technical
division (PTD), but once these laws and regulations were promulgated the ESD was formally
established as a Division with eight staff under DOR in November 2001.

According to the Regulations of the Director General of DOR on the establishment of the
social and environment division No 797 6 May 2002 duties of the Road Environment Unit
are:
    1. Study and improve regulations, guidelines and manuals on Environment and Social
        management and Mitigation of national roads.
    2. Implement the Departments plans on environment and social management by a)
        creating detailed plans of environmental mitigation each stage of road construction
        from survey through to project design, implementation and operation, b) conducting
        research on EIA to reduce environmental impacts c) Study and analyze environmental
        and social impact Assessments of roads
    3. Liaise with all Divisions in DOR and project managers to formulate plans for survey,
        monitoring, inspection and assessment of Environmental and Social impacts so as
        ensure compliance with regulations guidelines and manuals of EIA and SIA for public
        roadway activities.
    4. Prepare and Develop Environmental and Social management Plans for road
        construction [and maintenance] projects
    5. Liaise with relevant divisions, local staff, project managers and experts to collect and
        compile field environmental data, prepare environmental impact forecasts and act as
        an Environmental Information Center for the road sector.
    6. Analyze and comment on Environmental Impacts Assessments (EIA), check for
        correctness and propose modifications as necessary to higher authorities for
        consideration
    7. Raise awareness and knowledge on environmental issues of project and provincial
        DCTPC staff, road construction project staff in the field and the community residing
        near project areas.
    8. Assess and promote initiative and technological progress in the DORs work that are
        consistent with best practice
    9. Implement macro-management through monitoring, supervision and promotion of the
        sector.   Implement an inspection system, meetings and reporting, starting with
        monthly meetings in which division staff should participate
    10. Report regularly and timely to higher authorities
    11. Train, build capacity and promote the implementation of Government and MCPTC
        policies within the Division.
    12. Apply the principle of using local people for active and beneficial implementation of
        their activities.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                     3-14

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

The ESD has developed a Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment of Road Projects
in Lao PDR that has been approved and signed by the ministry (No. 2926/MCTPC, 29 JUL
2003).

A manual of Environmental Impact Assessment Procedures for Road Projects in the Lao PDR
was prepared by IUCN in 1997. These guidelines were updated in 1999 to the current
Environmental Guidelines for Road projects (April 1999)" (EGRP). The guidelines include: a
general statement of policy; purpose of the guidelines; procedures for screening, examples of
safeguards measures to be included in technical specifications.       The guidelines provide
specific examples of how procedures were applied in specific cases. The guidelines provide
guidance on possible effects and mitigation measures in planning and design, mobilization,
and construction. Section 4 of the guidelines provided safeguards measures to be included in
technical specifications for contractors.

A study on the resettlement issues was conducted with the assistance of the ADB and
guidelines for Resettlement and Compensation to be used in RMP were made available to the
public in Lao language within the work zone in each project. These guidelines remain the
same for RMP-2.

Specific Environmental guideline for "Road Maintenance Procedures" (LSRSP-2) have been
developed for environmental mitigation measures and is included as an appendix in the
document "The Road Maintenance Procedures" given to contractors. The guideline was used
when the local road network was improved through road maintenance in seven provinces
(Luang Namtha, Oudomxai, Luang Prabang, Khammouane, Borikhamxai, Savannakhet and
Champassak), with funding through LSRSP-2 and RMP-1 (World Bank financed). These
guidelines are to be incorporated into the revised EGRP.

The above sets of guidelines have been adopted with minor modification and updating to be
the basis of environmental and social compliance with the law by RMP-2. The checklist of
impacts and mitigation measures is to be expanded to include prescribed monitoring activities
and indicators and then incorporated into a data base from which information packs covering
environmental and social safeguards, environmental monitoring and operating procedures are
to be derived for each type of maintenance operation e.g. filling potholes to major
rehabilitation of the road.


3.3     Experience of Other projects

         3.3.1     ADB Poverty Assessment

ADB's Participatory Poverty Assessment Lao PDR (ADB, 2001) demonstrated that the main
causes of poverty in the uplands are:

    Ø Lackofaccesstomarkets
    Ø Poorlandallocation
    Ø Livestockdisease
    Ø Lossofsoilfertility
    Ø Environmentaldegradation
    Ø Agriculturalpests
    Ø Opiumaddiction




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                   3-15

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

Lack of access to markets was only one cause of poverty. While the maintenance and
upgrading of roads can lead to improved access to markets and positive economic benefits to
the community, it must be remembered that roads also can provide access for the external
world and its markets to a sometimes naive and unsophisticated community that is unable to
deflect the social ills of the outside world. Unless the environmental and social impacts of
road construction caused by exposure to exploitive outsiders are properly managed, they can
have negative economic and social effects, causing the local community to eventually regress
back into poverty. For example the community along NR 8 have complained that improved
road access has lead to increased disease in livestock. There is obviously a reduced benefit to
local communities through improving access to markets, if the available local commodities to
be traded (livestock, timber etc) and other sources of livelihood, decline as a result of
improved access. The main beneficiary of roads is nearly always the outside community at
large, but increased benefits can be obtained in the longer term, if local communities can at
least share some of the benefits and do not succumb to social ills of more advanced outsiders.


          3.3.2      ADB Road projects


The ADB has funded two major highway reconstruction projects as part of its greater Mekong
Development Strategy namely, the ADB Northern Corridor project on Highway NR3 between
Huoay Sai and Boten and the E-W Corridor NR 9 between Savannakhet and the Vietnamese
border. The EIA's for both projects indicate that provincial STEA and the DCTPC could not
conduct any monitoring or mitigation activities due to a severe lack of funds. Community
participation was restricted to preparation of EIA and defining the issues.

Recently the ADB has provided to the MCTPC technical assistance through TA 3348-Lao,
Rural Community Access Improvement to identify impacts and mitigation measures as part of
its East-West Corridor Project Co-ordination Activities. The findings of this TA in relation to
environmental and governance issues are instructive.

Law Enforcement
Enforcement of the law at border crossings and NBCA's near national borders is extremely
difficult and cost ineffective due to "porous", unguarded nature of the borders of the Lao PDR
in the provinces and the lack of trained and qualified staff and lack of funds. The porous
nature of the borders combined with improved access to the border results in a number
undesirable social impacts including increased migration of impoverished ethnic minorities in
Vietnam seeking to access the natural resources of the Lao PDR and impoverished younger
Lao seeking to obtain work in Thailand.

STD's HIV/AIDS
Both projects have resulted in a major influx of foreign workers and establishment of a local
sex industry in places and promotion of a small existing one in others. The upgrading of NR9
from Savanaket to the border with Thailand has led to transient migrations into and back from
Thailand. Savannakhet now has the highest rate of HIV infection of all provinces of Lao
PDR, with hospital records showing 4.8% of blood tests HIV positive in 2001, compared to
the national average of 1.7 suggesting transient migrants have increased exposure to
contracting the disease. There are also a significantly larger proportion of females who
partake in undocumented border crossings and unofficial employment, often with the help of
recruitment agents. Once they enter Thailand this group is particularly vulnerable to sexual
exploitation by criminal gangs. However, recruitment agents have also been know to recruit



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                      3-16

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

children from highly disadvantaged families near border areas with Thailand, for household
labor in and sweat shops.

Recommendations based on seeking assistance from UNICEF (children as users of illegal
drugs) and UNDCP are:

    Ø Improve monitoring of STD's and HIV Aids by adapting monitoring systems from
        programs elsewhere in the country or in neighboring countries would be advisable.

    Ø Provide resources and skills to update and assist official recording in government
        hospitals

    Ø The collection of data and correlating of information could first be done as a co-
        operative project between an NGO and the PCCA in order to establish good routines
        and feedback of information to concerned parties, including potential donors to cover
        various sections of the road.

Illegal Trade in Wildlife
Interviews with villagers along Route 9 indicate that substantial trading in wildlife now
occurs. Extreme poverty of the villages seems to be forcing many into commercial hunting,
trapping and illegal trading of wildlife, which is unsustainable in the longer term.          An
underlying problem is the traditional attitudes of villagers and, in some cases, officials to the
exploitation of resources, which have, relatively speaking, been abundant until recently.
Similarly it has been reported that the improvement in the roadway from Houay Xay on the
Mekong to Boten, on the border with China has led to significant increases in illegal wild life
poaching and sale of wildlife from the Nam Ha NBCA and surrounding district to Chinese
buyers from across the border at Boten.

There are at present no permanent checkpoints along NR9, making the enforcement of laws
and decrees in regard to wildlife protection in NBCAs very difficult. PAFO personnel are
stationed at international borders co-operating with police and customs officials. Given the
extent of the NBCAs and the porous international boundaries, enforcement arrangements are
struggling to cope, and the main effort seems to be verification of quotas and papers at official
checkpoints. The main problems emerging are:

    Ø Increased access, and the fact that guardian villages are not empowered, equipped or
        funded to deal with external threats to their environment and sources of livelihood
    Ø Habitat loss due to population expansion of many villages around the NBCAs and in
        the corridor areas, including burning of swidden fields
    Ø National and provincial quota systems still permit over-extraction of NTFPs (such as
        rattan), which are becoming rarer
    Ø Few conservation and environmental enforcement agency staff, to be located in and
        around the NBCAs due to a lack of funding shortfalls.
    Ø Limited resources and co-ordination of monitoring in terms of collecting and
        analyzing information.

Recommendations for rectifying the situation are:

    1.   Radical and realistic upgrading of enforcement measures is required




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       3-17

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

    2.  "Bottom-up" participatory enforcement of conservation and protection must also be
        instituted with particular emphasis on the elucidation of village-based natural
        resource regulations.

    3.  Accelerate a land allocation program backed up by an adequately funded and
        technically relevant land development

    4.  Better co-ordination between implementing agencies required but also between the
        donor and lender agencies due to the high cost of effective integrated agro-forestry
        development (between 2000 and 4000US$ per family)

    5.  Establish a more effective monitoring system using perhaps, IUCN and WWF, which
        have or have supported conservation programs in nearby NBCAs.               Data to be
        distributed to all concerned parties and feedback from concerned government
        organizations and donors regarding new programs and modifications to existing
        initiatives.

    6.  Awareness raising and information initiatives

Drugs
The use of amphetamines for the most part, transported into Lao PDR by road from Thailand
has increased rapidly. Cross-border, long distance truck drivers are said to have become
increasingly involved in the use and distribution of these drugs.


         3.3.3        LSRSP-1/2 and RMP-1

The second phase of the Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project (LSRSP-2) commenced in April
2001. The objective of that project was to ease poverty in Oudomxay, Louang Prabang,
Khammouane and Borikhamxay provinces and assist RMP-1 in capacity building on local
road administration. As part of LSRSP-2, Chamberlain (2003) studied the impact on poverty
of road improvements and maintenance in seven provinces.            According to Chamberlain
(2003), "Roads are emblems of modernization, and often seem attractive to districts and
provinces as points of resettlement for villages that are difficult for them to access, or as an
attempt to control opium production and swidden cultivation, or to provide government
services in health and education. In addition, roads may attract villages to move voluntarily,
either because they believe that the roads will bring them prosperity, even though they do not
comprehend the ways in which the market operates or how to take advantage of the road's
presence".

It concluded that increased access to markets encouraged farmers to increase production
leading to economic growth, increased GDP, and overall a reduction in poverty at the macro
level. However, this advantage occurred mainly where old established lowland villages of
predominant Lao-Tai ethnicity are already in place on or near the road. Less well off villages
of Mon-Khmer, Hmong-Mien or Tibeto-Burman and Khmou ethnic groups are unable to use
the road to fullest advantage partly because they may not be at ease with the cash economy
and partly because, being poor, they lack the resources to tap the befits of improved access to
market. The benefits of the roads are not being shared equally due to cultural differences that
exist between ethnic groups and their propensities for either adaptation or self-destruction in
the face of attempts at modernization, especially if this involves involuntary resettlement to a
roadside.



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                      3-18

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



For local roads the experience of LSRSP-1/2 indicates that the ideal model for road
construction and maintenance is that in response to a request by community to construct roads
to villages the government gives subsidies training and support at district and provincial level
and the village will maintain the road at its own expense.

RMP-2 covers national and provincial roads and given that voluntary work is on road
maintenance is neither feasible nor expected; RMP-2 has a budget to pay local communities
for routine road maintenance activities that require minimal skills. This was found to make a
significant contribution to reducing poverty, especially if such works are undertaken where
impoverished minority groups are located and especially when seasonal conditions threaten
the livelihood of such communities.             There is potential to extend local community
participation into some routine maintenance activities.


The SIDA associate expert and ESD interviewed villagers in relation to the impacts of roads.
Main problems reported by villagers were:

    Ø ExcessiveDust
    Ø Flooding of roads without embankments during the wet season, restricting access to
        markets health centers

Environmental problems observed by the monitoring party themselves were:

    Ø Anexcessivenumberofabandonedborrowpitsrequiringrehabilitation.
    Ø Thepoorlocationofsomeborrowspitsinrelationtoroadvista.
    Ø Borrowpitswithnofishinthembreedingmosquitoes
    Ø Side tipping of spoil from earthworks such as drains leading to unsightly often
        unstable piles of earth that require either must be reshaped and rehabilitated or
        disposed of to clear stable tipping areas and later shaped into stable landforms with a
        topsoil covering.
    Ø Spoilfromvariousearthworksbeingdumpedinstreams.
    Ø Significanterosionoftheditchesalongtheroadverge
    Ø Logging operations being conducted during the wet season which was causing rapid
        deterioration in repaired roads
    Ø Insufficientsignageinareasunderreconstructionwarningmotoristofhazardsahead.
    Ø Excavationsleadingtounstableslopes. Theseslopesmustbestabilizedbybackfilling
        over the toe of the slope or reshaping with ledges to retain material from landslides.
Expansion of the existing commercial sex industry in Borikhamxai province where the
upgrade of Highway No 8. 8 has introduced to a multi-national, mostly male, mobile
workforce.

Interviews of PAPs and District officials by a World Bank Mission evaluating RMP-1
indicated that where minor land acquisition was conducted, it was conducted according to
STEA guidelines.       However, without direct interviewing of PAPs and district officials the
mission was unable to assess whether the Environmental and Resettlement / Compensation
guidelines had been followed because they were unable to access monitoring reports.

There do not appear to be any specific concerns arisen relating directly to any particular
ethnic minority group. Issues raised by local communities were observed to be adequately



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       3-19

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

dealt with by the project guidelines relating to resettlement standards, environmental
protection, and the contractual provisions imposed on contractors. Experience from pilot
provinces generally reflected the fact that project impacts are not ethnic group-specific but
relate to all communities in the project area.           Note however, that the monitoring of
communications with ethnic minority groups was restricted.

According to the safeguards framework of RMP1, the implementing agency would ensure that
all districts and villages are properly and in timely fashion informed of the road maintenance
activities to be carried out. The implementing agency was also to ensure that the provisions
of the Guidelines, including the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines specifying
eligibility and entitlement principles, are effectively disclosed to the population living along
the roads targeted by the project by means of a public information campaign. Communities
along the roads targeted by the project were to be consulted by means of ad hoc meetings
regarding their priorities and needs in matters of road maintenance.

During supervision, it was observed that while dissemination of information on the project
had taken place at the level of the district and provincial development committees in which
village leaders participated, this activity was constrained by a shortage of staff and resources
to carry out the information dissemination and consultation exercise more effectively at
village and community level.          This is a shortcoming which will be addressed through
inclusion of this requirement in a technical assistance contract for screening and supervision
of safeguards in such contracts in RMP-2.

Generally strong positive impacts of roads improvements were observed. Notably, many
villagers relocated voluntarily to live alongside the road where presumably, they benefited
from better access to social and economic services.            Reports of positive impacts were
corroborated by villagers and by mass party and civil society organizations, such as the Lao
Women's Union and Lao Front for Reconstruction that have representatives at the village and
local levels

Besides improved access to markets and services, which have helped in poverty alleviation,
RMP1 was observed to have provided employment and income opportunities and skills
generation through the routine maintenance contracts provided to villagers working on project
roads. These village road maintenance contracts were much sought after. Given the limited
length of roads and the many villages living alongside, only some villages have been able to
benefit from this important source of supplementary income.

The current GoL/ World Bank policy is to allocate a greater proportion of funding to routine
maintenance. Routine maintenance requires the training and selection of village business
units. It is the responsibility of RAD to supervise the funding and allocation of such works
such as brush cutting and in particular ditch clearing aimed at reducing flood damage to roads.
The allocation of funds to RM is well documented, but summarised monthly expenditure is
not always included in RAD's monthly reports. There is the potential for SED to undertake
some monitoring of this component of the RMP ­2 so as to ensure that local ethnic minority
groups and other vulnerable village groups are adequately represented in this program. Other
social concerns raised during supervision of the RMP1, which are not of a specific safeguards
policy-related nature, included:

    Ø Impact of construction camp activities such as collecting timber for fuel or utilizing
        materials from rivers used by villagers



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       3-20

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

    Ø Formerly isolated villagers who have moved closer to roads lack awareness of safety
        and other road user issues arising from the infrastructure
    Ø Project team's lack of knowledge of languages and cultures of some ethnic minority
        groups living along the road, leading possibly to a reduced understanding of their
        concerns and needs
    Ø General concerns about the increased volume of traffic using improved roads and
        safety issues arising from speeding vehicles
    Ø Failure by the authorities to strictly implement right of way regulations has led to
        villagers setting up their houses close to the edge of roads. This raises issues of safety
        as well as possible problems with land rights and access.
    Ø Ensuring that villages can benefit equitably and fully from routine maintenance
        contracts and to avoid concerns over possible inefficiencies or leakages.
    Ø Lack of monitoring on the social and economic impact of the project at local level.


         3.3.4       ESD ­ Activities and Performance

The Division's mandate includes the collection and compiling of monitoring reports from the
subcontract project manager's in the provinces and report on it, but in the case of RMP1
implementation was initially restricted mainly because reporting systems were not in place
and no budget or technical assistance was provided for supervision and monitoring of
environment and social issues by RMP1. This problem arose because it was anticipated this
would come from technical assistance provided by other projects.                While this was
forthcoming, ESD attempted to undertake it's monitoring with one and sometimes two
officers accompanying technical inspectors from the MCTPC.            This restricted the ESD
activities significantly, mainly because of the separation of environmental and social aspects
of a project from its engineering aspects. The only monitoring reports available are those
undertaken with the technical assistance of projects other than RMP-1, some two years after
RMP-1 had commenced.

In 2003-2004 year external technical assistance to RMP1 allowed the ESD to undertake the
following:

    Ø Monitoring of RMP-1 in the northern provinces e.g. areas of road covered by Contract
        PSL01-0203-PM-NR-03 (regravelling) between Banyo and Paknamoy on RN1B,
        Phongsali; Contract ODSO2-0203-PM-NR-23 (resealing and repairs) between Namor
        and Luang Namtha, 13N, Oudamxai; Contract ODSO2-0203-PM-NR-03 (spot
        resealing and repairs) between Luang Prabang and Oudomxai on 13N (funding
        assistance from SIDA).
    Ø Social and environmental monitoring of the rural access road construction project
        (ADB9) between Longsan and Xaysomboun ­ Contracts 1 and 3 covering 105 km of
        road (assisted by ADB through IUCN)
    Ø HIV awareness raising activities and conducted a peer education program with
        construction workers, servicewomen etc attached to rehabilitation of Road 8 (funding
        assistance from SIDA). Once the NR 8 is completed and providing a budget is found,
        ESD will ensure that the HIV prevention message remains in the communities

Planned for activities of the ESD for 2004-2005 are:

    Ø Data collection on the environment aspects for waterway transport from Houasay to
        Vientiane).



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        3-21

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

    Ø MonitoringthebankprotectionprojectalongtheMekongRiver.
    Ø PreparationoftheEIARegulationandguidelinesforprojectsonwaterways
    Ø Preparation of a monitoring program in collaborate with ERI/IUCN Local Road
       Division and RAD.
    Ø Prepare an implementing regulation on the involuntary resettlement and compensation
       for the road projects.


There appear to be few social issues addressed by the ESD group other than those dealing
with STD/AIDS issue during road construction. Little pre-construction or post construction
community consultation has been undertaken under the ESD's guidance to date.

While the MCTPC "Environmental Guidelines" manual includes all the details required to
carry out the screening and detailed evaluation of projects it was suggested that these
guidelines were difficult to use as a field checklist for monitoring purposes. Reformatting of
the guidelines for monitoring purposes and inspection by the DCTPC at contract completion
is considered in the Action Plan for RMP-2.

A significant problem with the ESD first noted during LSRSP-2 is the limited capacity of
SED and the lack of budget allocation for the safeguard supervision and monitoring are
overriding constraints. Other problems inhibiting its operations are a lack of space and a
document and data management system.              The current focus of the Division is to support
international projects. It is recommended that this focus remains until a satisfactory working
system for monitoring projects and managing all related information and documentation is in
place and operating on a routine basis before the ESD expands to cover other projects.

Main recommendations in relation to capacity building of the ESD and upgrading of facilities
are:

    1. The establishment of an computerized Environmental Management Information
       System (EMIS) containing subsidiary secondary data bases in which a) all monitoring
       reports from the MCTPC and DCTPCs are placed and automatically summarized into
       monthly and annual reports and b) all guidelines and monitoring forms are available
       which are automatically updated according to any changes in the primary database.
    2. Proper documentation of all ESD activities including an operations manual defining
       all current procedures and proposed procedures five years ahead and which projects
       are aimed at which upgrade in procedures. Currently there may be some duplication
       of activities by donors due to inadequate documentation of the ESD's development
       program. The documentation should be part of the EMIS.
    3. Job descriptions for each staff member linked to ESD's mandate (part of the EMIS)
    4. Training of staff to fulfill their job descriptions.
    5. Continued capacity building within ESD especially in regard to implementing the
       Environmental law (i.e. increase understanding and capacity to abide by and
       implement the Environmental Regulations through training in English and
       Environmental Management
    6. Continued development the environmental and social mitigation guidelines attached to
       "The Maintenance Procedures" and incorporation into the EMIS
    7. Improved cooperation with The Science Technology and Environment Agency
       (STEA) including DoE to which monthly monitoring reports are to be sent and with
       ERI/World Bank for third party monitoring (Dispatch by email through EMIS)



Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                        3-22

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



         3.3.5     Performance of Contractors


The ESD, has undertaken its own evaluation of the environmental performance of contractor
operations in RMP-1. This is based on observations obtained while assisting the DCTPC
Project Managers and Contractors to monitor their environmental performance. The main
areas of concern are:

Guidelines appear to be provided to contractors on ad hoc basis ­ there is an indication
contractors either do not understand the guidelines or never received them or have no
incentive to apply them.
An obvious problem with most contractors has been leaving unrehabilitated and unstable pits,
quarries and spoil dumps located immediately adjacent to the road right of way. Contractors
negotiate directly with landholders and purchase land for borrow pits. Given the restricted
background of village people the rehabilitation of such site to avoid off-site and post project
impacts is never part of the agreement.

On environmental concerns, ESD recognizes that in mountainous regions it is often difficult
to ensure that borrow pits are located out of site of the road without excessive earthworks.
However, where borrow pits must be located in sight of the road it is even more important
that top soil is first removed and stockpiled prior to opening the borrow pit and when works
are completed, they are reshaped, drained and rehabilitated with a cover of the stockpiled top
soil in a way that prevents landslides onto the road right of way, eliminates pits containing
ponded water and facilitates natural re-vegetation of the area.

Some          positive          aspects         of        contractor   operations        were:

    Ø Conversionofborrowpitsoncompletionofworkstofishponds
    Ø Useofwasteoilbyvillagersforthepreservationofwoodedfences

The conversion of borrow pits to fish ponds is to be encouraged, providing villagers have a
stated interest in stocking the ponds with fish thereby eliminating the problem breeding of
mosquitoes.

A view expressed by some ESD staff is that enforcement of its guidelines needs
improvement. One suggestion is that all contracts contain a clause whereby a mandatory 5%
to 10% of the contract is retained as a bond by the DCTPC to cover the potential cost of
rehabilitation until the contractor has completed rehabilitation works consistent with The
EGRP.       There is already in place a system whereby the final payment for a contract is not
made until all project works are completed to technical standards required by DCTPC. It
simply requires the DCTPC to incorporate the stabilising and rehabilitation of temporary
borrow pits and spoil dumps and partial rehabilitation (tidying up) of permanent quarries and
borrow pits approved by STEA constitutes part of the project works.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                     3-23

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

3.4    Outstanding issues

The outstanding environmental and social issues in relation that need to be resolved are

   1. The problem of people migrating to roads and road safety, especially in mountainous
       areas. On roads maintained by RMP-1 there has been significant migration to roads
       with families in mountainous areas living in places within the alignment only 1-2 m
       from the road on which motorists travel 60-70 km/h. Domestic animals also wander
       freely on road. Most road are winding, are gravel and road safety and dust are thus
       serious issues. It is not the objective of RMP-2 to eliminate migration to the road right
       of way but consideration needs to be given to incentives and procedures might be
       provided to contain this problem before it becomes insurmountable. At the very
       minimum, the number and location of households that have migrated to the road right
       of way needs to be surveyed routinely.

   2. The potential health hazard of exposure to excessive dust. In remote areas 20-50 cars
       per day can be expected to raise cloud of dust on gravel roads during both
       maintenance and normal operations. RMP-2 should encourage a test screening of
       people subjected to such dust for silicosis or similar respiratory disease.         At a
       minimum it should support a study of the health hazard associated with excessive
       exposure to road dust.

   3. Unrehabilitated and unstabilised spoil dumps that are unsafe unsightly and wasteful of
       land resources. These are becoming a feature of the road network in the Lao PDR that
       bred negative perceptions by tourists. It is recommended that the MCTPC conduct a
       national workshop to discuss what to do with the problem.
   4. Project sites located near the protected area, natural habitats, and other sensitive areas
       may have significant negative impacts during maintenance operations. Procedures for
       identifying "Socially and Environmentally Sensitive" contracts, especially that have
       the potential to trigger application of social safeguard measures i.e. the RCG, the
       EMDP.
   5. Community participation in socially sensitive contracts. RMP-2 is to incorporate
       direct community participation with ethnic minority groups phase during the project
       design and during the pre-construction phase of contracts if they are identified as
       socially and environmentally sensitive.

   Outstanding issues in relation to institutional development needed so as to ensure
   implementation of the various safeguard measures are:

   6. Lack of capacity at the local level on implementation of the environmental and social
       safeguards in all 18 provinces
   7. Upgrading and capacity building of the ESD based on recommendations in Section
       3.3.4 that will result in improved monitoring showing the level of implementation of
       the EGRP in contracts
   8. Integration and mainstreaming of the environmental and social safeguards into the
       various divisions of MCTPC and the DCTPC to improve implementation of the
       EGRD by RAD the DCTPC, and contractors during the design, pre-construction and
       construction phases and by ESD during operation (post construction phase of
       maintenance operations)




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                      3-24

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

   9. Improvement of the regulatory framework including a) the promulgation of the Decree
       on resettlement and compensation and finalization of the draft guidelines for its
       implementation and the b) drafting of guidelines on Ethnic Minority development
       under the EMDF
   10. Development of guidelines partly based on the EMDF for increased participation of
       ethnic minorities and poor communities in RMP-2 if community consultations indicate
       this is their wish.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                3-25

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



4     STRATEGY

4.1     Objectives of the SEA, IEE and EMP

The objectives of the SEA IEE and EMP are to:

      1. Ensure that no adverse impacts occur without proper mitigation through application
          of the ESSF (Figure 1), IEE and EMP.
      2. To improve consultation and information dissemination as required in the EMP
      3. To mitigate the impacts during construction phase as shown in the EMP
      4. To reduce the impacts due to dust and road safety as to be shown in case studies,
          and the design phase of projects
      5. To engage participation of local community as to be demonstrated in case studies
      6. To increase capacity of ESD through the establishment of a database and
          information system, training, etc. to be funded by a TA to ESD
      7. To increase the capacity of MCTPC to incorporate the safeguard actions in its
          operations through capacity building and mainstreaming of ESD activities.

To achieve these objectives, the following strategies will be employed (Table 4.1):

    Ø All proposed subprojects will be screened by RAD in consultation with the ESD
        through the screening process described below and the results will be documented and
        properly kept for review by the Bank (Figure 4.1, Table 4.1)

    Ø The responsibility for applying safeguard and/or mitigation measures resides with the
        Division/entity that has the potential to cause the adverse impacts of concern. This
        ensures the mainstream of environmental and social concerns into MCTPC and
        DCTPC standard operations..

    Ø Appropriate mitigation measures will be included in the bidding document (BD) and
        contract document (CD); compliance with these measures will be monitored, and the
        results will be documented and properly kept for review by the Bank.

    Ø The ESD is to provide guidance and training to the responsible Divisions/entities,
        monitor the overall activities and prepare a semi-annual report on the application of
        the EGRP and RCG guidelines and other frameworks and action plans during the
        planning, design, and construction phase of the project. ESD will also develop the
        reporting requirements and procedures to ensure compliance by the contractors;
        conduct public consultation and public awareness programs, and carry out periodic
        training for field engineers and contractors as appropriate. A semi-annual report on
        the implementation of the guidelines will be submitted to the Bank.

    Ø Community consultation is to be incorporated into all phases of road maintenance
        projects as a means of ensuring potential negative impacts on communities are
        recognized and minimized and that they obtain positive net benefits from RMP-2.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                   4-26

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

Assumptions. The screening is based on the assumptions described below. If this is not the
case, the Bank should be informed and consulted.

The main civil works to be carried out under RMP2 will be limited to activities typically
defined as routine and periodic maintenance (resurfacing and bridge repairs; flood repairs or
emergency maintenance; regular upkeep of safety features and road signs, etc.) and small
rehabilitation works to strengthen the road, repair structural defects, restore the road to its
initial condition, make small changes or improvements to alignment, and small construction
of drainage and footpaths. If large-scale rehabilitation works are involved, DOR will inform
the Bank before proceeding with the contract.

The works will be carried out within the existing right of way (ROW) and will not involve
relocation and land acquisition. If land acquisition and relocation is needed, the Bank will be
informed, and the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines (RCG) will be applied.

The project-related impacts are site specific; few of the effects are irreversible; and
appropriate mitigation measures can be developed and implemented by the contractors and
MCTPC.

Screening procedures. It should be noted that this screening process is not intended to
prohibit DOR from carrying out maintenance-related works in sensitive areas but is meant to
ensure that proper mitigation measures are prepared and carried out effectively to avoid
adverse impacts on the affected population, natural environment and cultural heritage. If the
subproject is located in or near protected areas or other critical habitats or cultural property,
an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for the subproject will be prepared and carried
out in close cooperation with ESD and other concerned agencies and in consultation with the
Bank.

The civil works contracts for office building and construction of weigh stations will also be
subject to this screening. The ESSF will be conducted by the subproject administrator (RAD,
LAD, DTCPC, etc.) during the screening and preparation of the Annual Work Plan (AWP).

The key steps in determining which safeguard measures (RCG, EMDP, need to be applied to
projects are shown in Figure 4.1.          The EMP also requires that projects be screened to
determine which migration and monitoring guideline packages need to be attached to the
bidding documents for each contract according to the complexity of the works. Screening is
also required to determine "Environmentally and Socially Sensitive" requiring direct
community consultation prior to the commencement of works. This screening is based on a
number of criteria specified in the EMP.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       4-27

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




Figure 1. Key Steps of the Safeguards Framework (ESSF) for RMP2




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004     4-28

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

Table 4.1        Objectives,      key   activities    and   responsible       implementing          units    for   the
Environmental and Social Component of RMP-2.


 Main Objectives and Activities          Responsible                             Budget/Remarks
                                       Divisions/offices
 Objective 1: To ensure that no adverse impacts occur without proper mitigation

 Conduct Environmental and            RAD             in    ESD will provide training to concerned staff; the training
 social safeguards screening          consultation  with    should be included as part of the capacity building
 for all the subprojects.             DTCPC and ESD         component of RMP2
                                                            The screening may lead to the application of EGRP, RCG,
                                                            and EMDP and its operational guidelines/procedures

 Objective 2: To improve consultation and information dissemination on the impacts

 Conduct consultation with key        DTCPC and ESD         Appropriate means for information dissemination and
 stakeholders e.g. community,                               consultation should be applied.
 contractors

 Objective 3: To engage participation of local community and other key stakeholders to reduce impacts due to
 HIV/AIDS, gender, biodiversity, etc. during and after maintenance projects are completed

 Conduct a program and/or             ESD             in    SIDA assistance should be considered
 case     studies    to  increase     consultation  with
 awareness and cooperation of         DTCPC
 the local community on road
 safety,      dust   impacts   on
 health, biodiversity, HIV/AIDS,
 gender, and other impacts
 related to the improved road
 access, etc.

 Objective 4: To reduce the impacts due to dust and road safety

 Review measures available to         RAD, DCTPC            Specific criteria should be established to ensure cost-
 suppress the re-suspension of                              effectiveness of additional investment
 dust from earth and gravelled
 roads that may create health
 impacts on local community

 Design and implement cost-           RAD, DCTPC            This activities should be considered and implemented
 effective measures to improve                              under the road safety subcomponent of RMP2
 safety to all road users (install
 speed     limit, barrier, fence,
 enforcement, etc.)

 Conduct a program to increase        ESD             in    SIDA assistance should be considered
 awareness       of    the   local    consultation  with
 community on road safety             DTCPC

 Conduct      an    inventory  of     ESD             in    SIDA assistance should be considered
 settlements in the ROW and           consultation  with
 local community                      DTCPC

 In coordination with the local       DTCPC           in    Prohibit new settlement of household in the existing ROW;
 government, address the issue        consultation  with    For those communities that are already located within the
 related to ROW management            ESD                   ROW, incentives should be devised or appropriate actions
 in line with the road law                                  undertaken so that they relocate from the ROW. Proper
                                                            planning and consultation will be required.


 Objective 5: To mitigate the impacts during construction phase (maintenance operations)

 Include     specific   safeguard     RAD and DTCPC         ESD will provide specific set of safeguard requirements to




Ed Wronski                          5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                                       4-29

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

 requirement into bidding and       in consultation with  be included in the contracts for routine maintenance and
 contract      documents       as   ESD                   small civil works, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation
 appropriate,    including    the                         works (road and bridges). Close consultation between
 collection of performance bond                           contractor and the local government, and the local
 and    consideration   of   past                         community must be ensured. Other guidelines and
 performance       during     bid                         operation guidelines will also be provided as appropriate.
 evaluation process.                                      Cost for execution of the mitigation measures must be
                                                          included in the bidding cost.

 Closely monitor the safeguard      Project    manager    TORs for project manager should explicitly include this
 performance of the contractors     (field maintenance    responsibility.
 and the monitoring results will    engineer.
 be sent to ESD on a monthly
 basis                                                    ESD will provide adequate training to these staff

 Objective 6: To increase capacity of ESD

 Employ                short-term   ESD                   SIDA assistance should be considered;
 international experts                                    Input form international experts will be important for
                                                          training to be conducted under the capacity building
                                                          component of the RMP2

 Increase   technical   capacity    ESD                   2-3 months overseas training courses; SIDA assistance
 and information management                               should be considered.
 of ESD staff                                             Purchase of books/guidelines and appropriate technology
                                                          would be appropriate


 Objective 7: To increase capacity of MCTPC to address the safeguard issues

 Integrate     the     safeguard    ESD                   A committee on environment and social safeguard should
 requirements     into  MCPTC                             be established to provide policy guidance on the issues
 standard operation procedure,                            and actions; The committee should be chaired by the DG
 including     monitoring     and                         or a deputy DG of DOR and comprise head of the
 reporting requirements.                                  concerned    divisions   (planning,  design,   construction,
                                                          maintenance); Director of ESD is the secretariat.

 Provide        training       on   Human       resource  ESD will provide input on the training material and trainers.
 environment       and     social   development           The activities will be implemented under the capacity
 aspects    to   all  concerned     division              building component of the RMP2.
 engineers.      The     training
 courses should be integrated
 into    the   normal    training                         SIDA assistance (inputs of international experts) should be
 courses of MCTPC.                                        considered.

 Overseas study visit of high-      ESD               in  SIDA assistance should be considered.
 level manager (direct of key       consultation    with
 divisions) of DOR to Sweden        other divisions




4.2       Consultation and Community Participation


The first step in community participation aimed at ensuring RMP-2 maximises benefits of to
local communities and and thereby reduce poverty has been undertaken using a Rapid
Participatory Rural Appraisal Survey combined with semi-structured interviews.                                     The
objective of these surveys was to obtain                 the views of ethnic minority groups on the
advantages and disadvantages that accrued to them from RMP-1 and how RMP-2 might be
designed to improve their livelihoods.



Ed Wronski                        5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                                         4-30

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




The EMP for the project will also incorporates the monitoring of social impacts of
maintenance projects post construction (operation phase) on local communities and the
lobbying of donors and NGO's for mitigation of social impacts for environmentally and
socially sensitive projects as necessary. Of greatest concern in this regard, are maintenance
activities on the main roads and feeder roads that promote access to border crossings), new
projects that have a significant workforce and need for services and NBCA's (e.g. the sealing
of roads leading to a border crossing, new project or NBCA). It should be noted that projects
falling onto the category of environmentally and socially sensitive are few, amounting to
about 10% of contracts let.


4.3      Capacity Building

         4.3.1        ESD

Capacity Building of DCTPC and the MCTPC on the mainstreaming of environmental and
social considerations into the design and implementation of RMP-2 will largely be the
responsibility of the ESD. The ESD is required to monitor the performance of responsible
units on their own implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures and provide
feedback to STEA on overall adherence to the EGRP, the EMP through its monthly and
annual reports. Accordingly, improving the capacity of ESD to fulfil its role is of the highest
priority. At present the availability of a budget, vehicles, equipment, and space are limiting its
ability to fulfil its mandate under RMP-2.

Given limited capacity of ESD and workload, a technical assistance (TA) will be provided to
ESD to ensure effective supervision of the implementation of the safeguards through
supervision monitoring of all implementing units/ agencies performance , mainstreaming of
safeguards into MCTPC and DCTPC operations and ensuring adequate consultation with
local communities and authorities,

A budget of $0.15 million for a specialized consultant is included in the Project
(subcomponent A3). It is anticipated that additional assistance on the environment and social
aspects will be provided through other financing agencies (ADB, SIDA). SIDA has expressed
its willingness to provide a fund of about $1 million for the capacity building and special
programs/studies related to social aspects, especially on local community participation,
HIV/AIDS, and gender. Details of the SIDA program will be finalized in early 2005.

Assistance that ESD should request, consistent with "lessons learned" is the establishment of
an EMIS to enable it to implement its mandate. Given that the obligations of the ESD are so
limited the EMIS could simply consist of a simple database based on "Excel" or "Access"
plus a well-ordered computer with specified filing system based on its mandate.              Job
description and procedures need to be incorporated in the "human resources" component of
the database.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       4-31

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)

         4.3.2       DCTPC

Capacity building of the 18 DCTPCs in the country with regard to mainstreaming
environmental and social safeguards into the project will be the responsibility of ESD. It will
undertake this role by accompanying appropriate DCTPC officials into the field to:

    1. Monitor any resettlement and compensation by the project manager and contractor
    2. Inform the community of subproject obligations in the regard to project safeguards
        frameworks
    3. Undertaking community monitoring in regard to community needs and impacts of
        RMP-2.
    4. Recognition and monitoring of environmental and social impacts in the design, pre-
        construction, construction and post construction (operation) phases.

It could accompany appropriate officials to "demonstration sites" where a contractor has or is
undertaking full social and environmental compliance. In return for such compliance the
contractor will be assured by the ESD that his performance will be highlighted during pre-
qualification stage of future bidding and assessment of bids.

Given that about 30 projects will be undertaken concurrently over the whole country during
any one dry season, the capacity building effort will be difficult. . For this reason the TA for
capacity building of ESD will be undertaken in conjunction with the capacity building of
DCTPC.


         4.3.3       MCTPC

Awareness and understanding of project managers and field engineers on the need to ensure
full compliance with the safeguards is weak. This will be rectified by ESD lobbying senior
management to dissemination and memoranda on the Lao law and the obligations of staff
under the Lao law. Capacity building of RAD, LRD, PMD and DOR in environmental and
social compliance will be undertaken on the job by ESD assisting the staff to integrate social
and environmental considerations into all technical procedures associated with planning road
maintenance, implementing sub projects and evaluation of works.

ESD will conduct training seminars and workshops as necessary on guidelines and simple
operating procedures relating to the incorporation of environmental guidelines and self-
monitoring into project design, contract bidding and the signing off of contracts


         4.3.4       Contractors

It is recognised that the core activity of government organisations such as MCTPC is the
development and adherence to regulatory and financial processes PMP-2 is concerned with
generating positive outcomes in relation to the environment and society. Mandatory to the
generation of such positive outcomes is the training of contractors in the area of
environmental care, the provision of implementing tools (guidelines and forms) and
incentives to comply.      Proposed incentives are the potential retention of the final payment
and/or a bond put up as part of the bid and the presentation to RAD, PMD and LRD the
histories of contractor compliance with the EGRP when considering pre-qualification of
contractors. It will be ESD's role to ensure contractors are informed of these incentives.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                       4-32

Environment and Social Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




4.4     Guidelines and Manuals

A number of standard operational guidelines/manuals appropriate for each type of contracts
have also been prepared to facilitate effective application of the EGRP. Given limited
experience in using the RCG and EMDP, updated of these guidelines is considered not
necessary. However, operational guidelines/manuals will also be established during the
implementation of RMP2 and are provided in Part C of this report.


4.5     Role of ESD in RMP-2

All proposed subprojects will be screened by RAD and then ESD through the screening
process described below (Table 1) and the results will be documented and properly kept for
review by the Bank. It should be noted that this screening process is not intended to prohibit
DOR from carrying out maintenance-related works in sensitive areas but is meant to ensure
that proper mitigation measures are prepared and carried out effectively to avoid adverse
impacts on the affected population, natural environment and cultural heritage.

In addition ESD will:

    1. ESD will also take the lead in the implementation of other programs and activities of
       the mitigation plan, including ensuring close coordination among various donor
       agencies with respect to the environment and social issues
    2. Provide guidelines and monitoring forms for RAD, PMD,LRD, project manager and
       contractors and modify these as necessary
    3. Monitor and compile the monitoring reports of RAD in relation to the inclusion of
       appropriate guidelines on environmental and social impacts and mitigation measures
       in all bidding and contract documents.
    4. Compile the monitoring reports of RAD, PMD, LRD, project managers and review
       them. In the light of these reviews and field inspections it will modify the EMP as
       necessary
    5. Supervise and monitor the overall activities and prepare a monthly and semi-annual
       report on the application of the EGRP and RCG guidelines and other frameworks and
       action plans during the planning, design, and construction phase of all subprojects.
    6. Conduct public consultation and public awareness programs
    7. Carry out periodic training for field engineers and contractors as appropriate.
    8. Train and inform all personnel involved in monitoring on monitoring procedures


4.6     Standard Operating Procedures

    An outline of all reporting procedures is given in Table 4.2 below. The procedures
    involved will involve perusal and discussion of reports and/or the completion of attached
    monitoring forms for forwarding to ESD for compliance monitoring purposes. The actual
    forms are available as part of the action plan in Part C of this report.




Ed Wronski                    5:53 PM9:37 AM, June 10, 20046/9/2004                     4-33

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




          Table 4.2             Safeguards screening criteria for each subproject to be applied by RAD in consultation with ESD


                Screening check list                     Y/N                                                 Actions to be undertaken

 Large-scale rehabilitation not falling within the        Y  DOR will inform the Bank before proceeding with the contract.
 definition of routine and periodic maintenance

 Works will be carried out outside an existing right of   Y  ESD will consult Planning/Project engineer and if the impacts are significant, ESD seeks Bank clearance before selection of
 way (ROW) and will involve relocation and or land           the subproject for bidding
 acquisition

 Project impacts not site specific and effects are        Y  ESD will consult with Planning/Project engineer and if the impacts are significant, ESD seeks Bank clearance before
 irreversible. The contractors and MCTPC can                 selection of the subproject for bidding
 implement no appropriate mitigation measures.

 Involves land acquisition, relocation, indirect loss of  Y  Planning engineer will consult ESD and apply RCG, EMDP. If the impacts are significant, ESD seeks Bank clearance before
 access or assets, and has adverse impacts on                selection of the subproject.
 ethnic minorities                                           Extensive consultation with affected population is expected during the planning and implementation

 Scale of works is larger than those identified for       Y  Consult ESD to apply appropriate guidelines. If the impacts are significant, or new road construction is required, ESD seeks
 maintenance or involve new construction                     Bank clearance before selection of the subproject.

 Project located near villages, residential, or other     Y  Planning engineer will consult ESD and include appropriate mitigation measures during planning and design stages. DOR
 sensitive areas (schools and hospitals). Dust and           and ESD will establish criteria and technology appropriate for dust suppression in the sensitive areas. The issues and
 road safety issues will significantly affect the            actions will be recorded in the progress report and/or the semi-annual report.
 human health/life

 Project site is located in or less than 50 m away        Y  Planning engineer will consult ESD to ensure that the mitigation measures are adequate. Use of borrow pits and quarry sites
 from protected areas, areas of cultural heritages; or       and operation of asphalt plants in the sensitive areas must be prohibited.
 involves the use of large amounts of toxic                   Specific requirements, both for the contractors and MCTPC, may be required to minimize impacts.
 chemicals or herbicides.
                                                             A standard clause should be included in all construction contracts regarding the procedures to be followed in the advent of
                                                             chance finds of cultural significant sites.



                                                                                                                                                                                    4-34

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




             Screening check list                   Y/N                                               Actions to be undertaken

 Large amount of materials will be needed.           Y  Planning engineer will consult with ESD with respect to locations and practices of material excavation.




 Fully comply with the assumptions specified above   Y  The project will undergo screening to determine the extent to which it is "socially and environmentally sensitive" based on
 and a contractor will be employed to carry out the     criteria given in the EMP. MCTPC (subproject administrator) prepare an action plan to mitigate the potential impacts of the
 works                                                  subproject in line with the EGRP and disclose the plan to the public. The extent of consultation with local authority and local
                                                        community will be determined by the projects social and environmental sensitivity. Endorsement of ESD will be necessary.
                                                        MCTPC includes the environmental requirements in the bidding/contract document and ensure compliance of the
                                                        contractors during the bidding process. Field engineers will closely monitor the contractor performance and document it in
                                                        the supervision/progress report. Recommendations that are useful to increase efficiency and effectiveness of the mitigation
                                                        plan should be provided.
                                                        ESD will periodically review the supervision report, periodically inspect the contractor performance, conduct public
                                                        consultation, and prepare a semi annual report to send to the Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                4-35

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




 Table 4.3 Standard operating procedures showing document flows and actions required to ensure RMP-2's compliance with operational
safeguards.
                                                                                                                     When
Phase                        From                         Documents                              To                                                   Action

  GENERAL                Director ESD   Monthly monitoring report on all contracts on  Director DoE STEA     Monthly             Provide advice to Dir. Gen. of MCTPC on level
                                        extent to which RMP-2 and other projects       World Bank                                of compliance of RMP-2 to EMP.
                                        conforms to its legal requirements                                                       Reviews monitoring report and confirms project
                                                                                                                                 remains category B.

         GENERAL         Director ESD   Semi -annual report on all projects monitored  Attn: Dir.DoE STEA    Semi-Annual         Dir. Gen and Dir ESD, MCTPC assess whether
                                        by ESD including RMP-2                         Director       RAD                        situation is improving or whether additional
                                                                                       MCTPC,      Director                      action required.
                                                                                       DOR        MCTPC,
                                                                                       World Bank

                         Director ESD   1) Environmental and social impact mitigation  Attn:          Chief  Periodically    As  Evaluates design work in terms of mitigation
                                        guideline on design.                           Maintenance           Required            environmental       and     social    impacts.
                                        2) Monitoring Report form                      Engineer DCTPC.
                                                                                       Director       RAD                        Completes Monitoring report back to ESD
                                                                                       DCTPC,      Director
                                                                                       RAD, MCTPC
                DESIGN   Chief          Completed Monitoring Report on Design Works    Attn: Director ESD    Annually            Evaluates design monitoring report.
                         Maintenance                                                   Director       RAD                        It compliance unsatisfactory writes to Chief
                         Engineer,                                                     DCTPC,                                    maintenance      engineer  DCTPC     indicating
                         DCTPC
                                                                                       Director       RAD                        remedy required.
                                                                                       MCTPC                                     Puts report into data base




                                                                                                                                                                          4-36

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



                                                                                                                              When
Phase                          From                         Documents                                  To                                                        Action

                           Director RAD   List of proposed contracts, description of works   Director ESD             Commencement      Of  Reviews screening of proposed list of projects.
                                          and results of screening of projects in terms of                            Planning Year         If   necessary     ESD      will   consult  with
                                          required notification of the Wold Bank and the                                                    Planning/Project engineer and if the impacts are
                                          extent to which the project is regarded as                                                        significant, ESD seeks Bank clearance before
  BIDDING                                 socially and environmentally sensitive.                                                           selection of the subproject for bidding

                           Director ESD   1.Attaches to list of each contract          the   Attn:            Chief   Commencement      Of  Reviews ESD list.
                                          packages of attachments to be included in the      Maintenance              Planning Year         Attaches to tendering documents as a contract
                                          bidding documents.                                 Engineer DCTPC.                                condition.
                                          2. Grading of Contractors past performance in      Director          RAD                          RAD and DCTPC let contract taking into
                                          regard to conforming with EGRP and EMP.            DCTPC.                                         account contractor's past performance.
                                          .                                                  Director         RAD,
                                                                                             PMU, LRD, MCTPC

                           Contractor     1. EMP containing maps                             1 2 &       3 Project    Once Only, Prior To   Check EMP conforms to project EMP and ES
                                          2. Completed pre-construction monitoring form      manager, copies to       Commencement      Of  guidelines
         PRE                                                                                 PSTEA, DCTPC             Project Start Up
                                          3. Completed community participation form                                                         Check     pre-construction    monitoring  report
                                                                                             3. District Officials,                         conforms to ES guidelines
            CONSTRUCTION                  recording communities views on environmental
                                          issues and any compensation agreements to
                                          the extent required in contract conditions.                                                       Check community participation principles upheld


                           Project        Contractor     EMP      and      pre-construction  Attn: Director ESD       Just      Prior   To  Review contractor EMP and monitoring report
                           Manager        monitoring form checked by project manager.        Director         DOR     Commencement      Of  Place information in data base
                                          Comments added ­ converted to electronic           DCTPC                    Any Earthworks
                                          format. Hard and soft copies forwarded.
                                                                                             Director         DOR
                                                                                             DCTPC




                                                                                                                                                                                      4-37

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



                                                                                                                        When
Phase                             From                       Documents                              To                                                    Action

                              Contractor    Monitoring form                               Project      Manager   2 Weeks            Check   montoring     report   conforms   to ES
                                                                                          District Officials,                       guidelines



  CONSTRUCTION


                              Project       ES Monitoring                                 Attn: Director Esd     Monthly            Insert report into database
                              Manager       Report (soft and hard copy)                   Director         DOR                      DOR includes summary of EM monthly report
                                                                                          DCTPC                                     from ESD in its own monthly report
                                                                                          Director         DOR
                                                                                          DCTPC

                              PMU * MCTPC   Monthly progress report on the technical and  Attn.    Dir      Gen  Monthly
                                            environmental performance of contractors      MCTPC
                                                                                          World Bank

                              Contractor    Completion Monitoring Report                  Project Manager        End Of Contract    Checks     all   rehabilitation  activities and
              END                                                                                                                   outstanding issues with community have been
                                                                                                                                    resolved.
                 OF           Project       Completion report                             Attn Dir. ESD          End Of Contract    Works are inspected.
                   CONTRACT   Manager                                                     DOR,MCTPC                                 ESD may request attending final inspection.
                                                                                          DCTPC                                     Contract signed off.
                                                                                                                                    Project handed over to DCTPC




                                                                                                                                                                               4-38

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)



                                                                                         When
Phase             From                      Documents                     To                                                Action

              Dir      DOR,  Social Impact Monitoring Report    Attn: Dir. SED     Annual              Records report in database.
              DCTPC                                                                                    Undertakes site visits as deemed necessary and
                                                                                                       according to funds available
  OPERATION                                                                                            Incorporates report into ESD's annual report.

              Director ESD   Annual Report                      Dir: DOR      RAD  Annual              Recognize social impacts of MCTPC road
                                                                MCTPC                                  maintenance.
                                                                Dir. Gen. MCTPC                        Undertake projects to mitigate social impacts of
                                                                etc.                                   road maintenance.
                                                                World Bank
                                                                NGO's
                                                                Funding Agencies


*Project management Unit of DCPT agreed to include a section on in monthly progress reports. From July 2004.




                                                                                                                                                 4-39

Social and Environment Division, Department of Roads, MCTPC

INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION ­ RMP-2 Project (World Bank, SIDA)




4.7      Public Information and Compensation


According to RMP1, the implementing agency would ensure that all districts and villages are
properly and in timely fashion informed of the road maintenance activities to be carried out by
means of a public information campaign. During supervision, it was observed that while
dissemination of information on the project had taken place at the level of the district and provincial
development committees in which village leaders participated, this activity was constrained by a
shortage of staff and resources to carry out the information dissemination and consultation exercise
more effectively at village and community level. This shortcoming has been addressed through
inclusion of this requirement in a technical assistance contract for supervision of safeguards. The
ToR for the contract is part of the Action plan outlined in Part C of this document.




                                                                                                4-40

