Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3944-LA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Road Maintenance Program (Phase 2) Project) 
 
between 
 
LAO  PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Date August 27, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3944-LA  
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, date August 27, 2004, between the LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
January 10, 2001 (hereinafter the Letter of Development Program, Road Maintenance 
Project), describing a program designed to carry out the Borrower’s “Strategic Directions 
for the Development of the Road Sector (2000)” to achieve sustainable preservation of 
road assets through the development and implementation of financing and road 
management systems, (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such program; 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately nine 
years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;  
(C)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is the second phase of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(D) 
the Borrower intends to contract from Japan a grant under the Policy and 
Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) to be administered by the Association, in 
an amount equivalent to four million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($4,800,000) to 
assist in financing Parts B.1(a), B.2(a), B.3(a), B.3(b)(i) and B.3(e) of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Association (hereinafter the PHRD Grant Agreement); 
(E) 
the Borrower intends to contract from Swedish International 
Development Cooperation Association (SIDA) a grant in an amount equivalent to five 
million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($5,800,000) to assist in financing Part A.2(c) of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SIDA (hereinafter the SIDA Grant Agreement); 
(F) 
the Borrower intends to contract from Nordic Development Fund (NDF) 
a
credit in an amount equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand Dollars 
($9,200,000) to assist in financing Parts A.3, B.2(b)(ii), B.2(c), B.3(b)(ii), B.3(f) and C.1 
Page  3
-2-  
 
of the Project and parts of Part A.1(b) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and NDF (hereinafter the NDF 
Credit Agreement); and 
(G) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian Development Bank 
(ADB) a loan in an amount equivalent to one million Dollars ($1,000,000) to assist in 
financing part of Part A.1(b) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and ADB (hereinafter the ADB Loan 
Agreement); 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions  
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish
 
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth  and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-3-  
 
(a) 
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused 
by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) 
loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary 
restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse 
impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, the 
plural thereof; 
(b) 
“Bank of Lao PDR” means the Borrower’s central bank, or any successor 
thereto; 
(c) 
 “DCTPC” means the Division of Communication, Transport, Post and 
Construction, established by the Borrower in each province under the jurisdiction of the 
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and the term “DCTPCs” 
means collectively all of them; 
(d) 
“DOR” means the Department of Roads established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction; 
(e) 
“DOT” means the Department of Transport established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction;  
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2),  (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g)  
“Environment and Social Safeguards Framework” means the framework 
instrument, satisfactory to the Association, duly adopted by the Borrower through its 
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction  on June 14, 2004 and 
referred to in paragraph 7(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which sets forth the 
principles and procedures, satisfactory to the Association, governing:  (i) the 
environmental impact screening of works to be carried out under the Project and the 
environmental protection measures, if any, required to be undertaken in order to avoid or 
mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts resulting from such works, consistent 
with the Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects; (ii) land or other asset acquisition 
from, resettlement and rehabilitation of and compensation to Affected Persons, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said principles, 
procedures and the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines, and for the preparation 
of resettlement action plans whenever required in the carrying out of Project 
implementation activities; and (iii) the strategy for the carrying out of the Project in areas 
where Ethnic Minorities are residing, cultivating, hunting and carrying out other similar 
Page  5
-4-  
 
social activities; as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Association. 
(h) 
“Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects” means the Borrower’s 
Project specific guidelines issued by the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and 
Construction on June 14, 2004 pursuant to the Borrower’s Regulation on Environmental 
Impact Assessment of Road Projects approved by Ministerial Decree 2926/MCTPC dated 
29 July 2003; 
(i) 
“Ethnic Minorities” means those social groups in Lao PDR that have a 
distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the 
development process induced by the Project or any part thereof. 
(j) 
“Ethnic Minority Development Policy” means the strategy, adopted by 
the Borrower as part of the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, for the 
carrying out of the Project in areas where Ethnic Minorities are residing, cultivating, 
hunting and carrying out other similar social activities, acceptable to the Association; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year starting October 1 and 
ending September 30; 
(m) 
“MCTPC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Communication, 
Transport, Post and Construction; 
(n) 
“MCTPC Special Account” means the account established for the 
purpose of Parts A.2(b), B.1(b), B.2(b)(i), B.3(c), B.3(d), C.2 and C.3 of the Project and 
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Memorandum of Agreement” and the acronym “MOA” means the 
agreement entered into by MCTPC and each Province under the Project pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the acronym MOAs 
means collectively all such Agreements; 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
4, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
Page  6
-5-  
 
(q) 
“Project Monitoring Division” means the unit maintained by the 
Borrower’s MCTPC within the Department of Roads, referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and established for the purpose of monitoring all foreign-
funded projects in the Borrower’s road sector; 
(r) 
“Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines” means the guidelines, 
satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the Borrower on June 14, 2004, providing 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i)  the involuntary taking of land and other assets 
from Affected  Persons, (ii) resettlement and
 
rehabilitation of, and compensation to, 
Affected Persons, and (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with such guidelines, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Association; 
(s) 
“Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board” and the acronym “RMFAB” 
mean the advisory board established by the Borrower pursuant to Decree 05/PM dated 
January 15, 2001, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  having 
overall management of the Road Maintenance Fund, reporting to the Minister of the 
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and comprising 
representatives of road users from the private sector and public sector representatives, 
including one representative each from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
Communication Transport Post and Construction, the Ministry of Commerce, the Lao 
National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Fuel Importers Group, the operators of 
land transport, and the operators of land transport of passengers;   
(t) 
“Road Maintenance Fund” and the acronym “RMF” mean the fund 
established by Decree No. 09/PM dated January 15, 2001, to finance road maintenance 
through road user charges; 
(u) 
“RMF Special Account” means the Road Maintenance Fund account 
established for the purpose of Parts A.1(b) and A.1(c) of the Project and referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(v) 
“Secretariat” means the secretariat of the Road Maintenance Advisory 
Board; and 
(w) 
“Special Accounts” means the RMF Special Account and the MCTPC 
Special Account, collectively, and the term "Special Account" means either of the Special 
Accounts. 
Page  7
-6-  
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of  goods, works and services required for the Parts A.1(b), A.1(c), 
A.2(b),  B.1(b), B.2(b)(i), B.3(c), B.3(d), C.2 and C.3 of the  Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate special deposit accounts (the RMF Special Account in respect of 
Parts A.1(b) and A.1(c) of the Project and the MCTPC Special Account in respect of  
Parts A.2(b), B.1(b), B.2(b)(i), B.3(c), B.3(d), C.2 and C.3 of the Project) in the Bank of 
Lao PDR on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  8
-7-  
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.  
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2014 and ending June 15, 2044.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  9
-8-  
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the following departments of MCTPC:  Department of Roads for Parts A, 
B.1 and C, Department of Transport for Part B.2, and the Department of Personnel and 
the relevant DCTPCs for Part B.3, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, construction, financial, engineering, and public road 
maintenance and management practices, and social and environmental standards, 
acceptable to the Association, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consult
ants’ services required for the Parts A.1(b), A.1(c), 
A.2(b), B.1(b), B.2(b)(i), B.3(c), B.3(d), C.2 and C.3 of the Project shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  10
-9-  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Associatio
n’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  11
-10-  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 18 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
Page  12
-11-  
 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 in each year, 
commencing  March 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project, have the records and 
accounts of the RMF, which records and accounts reflect its operations, resources and 
expenditures, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Either the SIDA Grant Agreement, the NDF Credit Agreement 
or the ADB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 2005, or 
such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of 
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that adequate funds for Parts A.2(c), A.3, B.2(b)(ii), B.2(c), B.3(b)(ii), B.3(f) 
and C.1 of the Project, and part of Part A.1(b) are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph (b):  
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
either the SIDA Grant, the NDF Credit, the ADB Loan 
or the PHRD Grant, made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the SIDA Grant Agreement, the NDF Credit 
Agreement, the ADB Loan Agreement or the PHRD 
Grant Agreement, as the case may be; or 
Page  13
-12-  
 
(B) 
either the NDF Credit or the ADB Loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof. 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (b) shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(c) 
Any of the following instruments shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement: (i) Decree No. 09/PM 
establishing the Road Maintenance Fund dated January 15, 2001; (ii) Decree No.03/PM 
dated January 9, 2004 on “Government Procurement Of Goods, Construction, 
Maintenance And Service” and its Implementing Rules and Regulations issued  by the 
Ministry of Finance No.0063/MOF dated March 12, 2004; (iii) the Borrower’s Letter of 
Development Program, Road Maintenance Project dated January 10, 2001;  (iv) 
Ministerial Decision 2926/MCTPC dated July 29, 2003; (v) the Environmental 
Guidelines for Road Projects; and (vi) the Environment and Social Safeguards 
Framework; or any part thereof. 
(d) 
A situation has arising which shall make it improbable that the Program 
or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and  
(e)  
Any of the RMF, MCTPC and DCTPCs shall have had their respective 
legal mandates amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or have been 
dissolved, reorganized or restructured.   
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso therein. 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
Page  14
-13-  
 
(c) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) of  Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
That the PHRD Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
(b) 
That MOAs in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, has 
been entered into between MCTPC and each Province pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
That pursuant to paragraph 16 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement an 
increase in fuel levy to a level of not less than one hundred Kips per liter has been 
adopted and its effective date announced by the Borrower, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(d) 
That the Program Review Panel has been established pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
(e) 
That the Project Coordination Committee has been established pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework, the Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects, the Ethnic 
Minority Development Policy, and the Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines have 
been duly authorized by the Borrower and are legally binding and enforceable in 
accordance with the applicable laws of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.   
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-14-  
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Post Office Box No. 46 
 
Vientiane 
 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
4369 
  856-21-412142 
 
MOF LS 
 
856-21-911370 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
248423 (MCI)             (1-202) 477-6391 
 
64145
(MCI) 
 
Page  16
-15-  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By 
/s/ Somdy Douangdy  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-16-  
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 
 
 
 
(a)  under Parts A.1(b) and              7,000,000 
70% 
 
A.1(c) of the Project 
 
(b)  under Parts A.2(b) and              5,900,000 
70% 
 
B.3(d)(i) of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,400,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 95% of                      
 
local
 
expenditures (ex    
 
factory cost) 
and 90% of local 
expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’                                     
360,000 
 
88% 
 services 
for 
 
 
Parts B.1(b) and C.3 
   
 
(4) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
110,000 
 
40% 
 
(5) 
Unallocated                                    
 730,000       
 
_________
TOTAL  
15,500,000 
Page  18
-17-  
 
Page  19
-18-  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
related to the Project incurred by the MCTPC and by the DCTPCs (which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for Project staff 
travel and per diem, office supplies, maintenance of office equipment, and vehicle fuel 
and maintenance, but excluding staff salaries.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for:  (i) contracts for civil works costing less than 
$700,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (iv) training and workshops; and (v) incremental operating 
costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  20
-19-  
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The Project is the second phase of the Borrower’s Program designed to carry out 
its “Strategic Directions for the Development of the Road Sector (2000)”. The objective 
of the Project is to assist the Borrower in expanding sustainable maintenance of its road 
networks nationwide in order that:  (a) national and local road assets are preserved to 
provide sustainable improved travel and access for road users and communities in most 
areas countrywide; and (b) sustainable financing and management of roads is operational 
countrywide with improved institutional capacity at central and local levels in the public 
and private sectors. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Preservation of the Road Network
1. National 
Roads:
Carry out a program for: (a) routine maintenance of the national 
road network throughout the country, including emergency works of accident removal 
and  landslide clearing, vegetation control, drainage clearing, potholes patching, edge 
repairs, and grading; and (b) periodic road maintenance, including regravelling, resealing, 
asphalt resurfacing, road safety improvements and bridge repairs, of about 1,800 
kilometers of the national road network; and (c) rehabilitation of about 200 kilometers of 
the national road network. 
2. 
Provincial, District and Rural Roads
:
Carry out a program for the: (a) routine 
maintenance of the provincial road network throughout  the country, including 
emergency works, accident removal,  landslide clearing, vegetation control, drainage 
clearing, potholes patching, edge repairs and grading on about  6,500 kilometers  per 
year; (b) periodic maintenance, including regravelling, resealing, dust suppression, road 
safety improvements and bridge repairs, and rehabilitation of about 2,000 kilometers of 
the provincial road network; and (c) maintenance of the district and rural road networks, 
including routine maintenance and improvement of road structure and drainage. 
3. Implementation 
Support
:
Support the supervision of routine and periodic  
maintenance, and rehabilitation of the national and provincial road networks, as the case 
may be, including the monitoring of safeguards including the provision of consultants’ 
services to DOR and the DCPTC.  
Page  21
-20-  
 
Part B
:
Capacity Building
1. 
Road Management and Financing
:
Carry out a program to: (a) enhance and  
implement sustainable procedures for planning, budgeting and implementing the 
preservation of road assets including roads and bridges on the national, provincial, district 
and rural road networks; and (b) enhance the procedures for financing the preservation of 
road assets through the strengthening of the operations of and the achievement of 
sustainable cost recovery objectives of the Road Maintenance Fund, and the development 
of sustainable cost-sharing arrangements for the financing of the preservation of local 
roads, through the provision of consultants’ services.  
2. 
Road Transport Management and Safety
:
Carry out a program to: (a) improve 
road transport and safety administration, including the provision of consultants’ services 
to DOT on transport administration, vehicle registration and driver licensing 
computerized system, heavy transport management, and road safety; (b) expand on a 
nationwide basis the management of  heavy transport control, including: (i) the provision 
of load control equipment, and (ii) the construction of 2 permanent weigh stations and  7 
layby sites;  and (c) develop and implement a series of road safety improvements. 
3. 
Institutional Capacity Building:
Carry out a program to strengthen the 
institutional capacity of  entities involved in the Borrower’s road sector through (a) 
improvement of the organizational functions and key business processes of MCTPC and 
the DCTPCs; (b) human resources development of (i) MCTPC and (ii) the DCTPCs; (c) 
provision of information technology and communications for  MCTPC and the DCTPCs; 
(d) provision of (i) district office facilities, (ii) motor vehicles, (iii) motorcycles, and (iv) 
office equipment for MCTPC and the DCTPCs; (e) strengthening service delivery in the 
construction industry, transport operations and engineering consulting profession; and (f) 
strengthening the effectiveness of environmental and social safeguards in road programs; 
including the provision of consultants’ services, workshops and training.  
Part C
:
Project Administration
Carry out a program to strengthen the capacity of the DOR and the DCTPCs to 
administer and monitor Project activities, including  
1. 
Project monitoring, including Project management, implementation, and 
reporting, and the provisions of consultants’ services therefor. 
2.  
Budgetary support for operating costs, including incremental operating costs. 
Page  22
-21-  
 
3. 
Financial and technical audits including provisions of consultants’ services 
therefor. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  23
-22-  
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than
 consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding. The 
procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the 
Prime Minister Decree No.03/PM dated January 9, 2004, on “Government Procurement 
of Goods, Construction, Maintenance and Service” and its Implementing Rules and 
Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance No.0063/MOF dated March 12, 2004; and 
Page  24
-23-  
 
(b) 
Except as provided for in Section I of, Part B of paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
this Schedule, works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Prime Minister Decree No.03/PM dated January 
9, 2004,
 on “Government Procurement of Goods, Construction, Maintenance and 
Service” and its Implementing Rules and Regulations issued  by the Ministry of 
Finance No.0063/MOF dated March 12, 2004.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
All vehicles and motorcycles may be procured 
directly from the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office
 
in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
Page  25
-24-  
 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $700,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; and (d) all contracts for consultant 
services provided by individuals.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Association. 
Page  26
-25-  
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A
.
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Program, the Road 
Maintenance Advisory Board and a Secretariat, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, including, a Head of Secretariat, a technical manager, a financial manager, and 
an accountant, all with qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.  
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Program, with competent 
staff in adequate numbers headed by a Project Director, the following units: the Project 
Monitoring Division, the Road Administration Division, the Planning and Technical 
Division, the Environmental and Social Division, and the Disbursement Division, all of 
the Department of Roads, the Department of Transport, the Manpower Development 
Division of the Personnel Department of MCTPC and the DCTPCs, all with 
qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain in the Planning and Technical Division of the 
Department of Roads of MCTPC, until completion of the Program, a Road Management 
Team for purposes of operating a computerized system for preparation and economic 
analysis of road maintenance and rehabilitation programs (RMS), with competent staff in 
adequate numbers who possess skills in database management, mapping, road and traffic 
data collection highway planning and economics, routine maintenance planning 
monitoring and evaluation systems, and a working knowledge of the English language, 
with qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
4. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Program, a Program Review Panel for the purposes of achieving the development 
objectives of the Program, mobilization of the required financial resources therefore, 
including cost-sharing arrangements and RMF revenues and allocations, and coordination 
of donors supporting the Program, comprising the Vice-Minister MCTPC Directors 
General of DOR, DOT and Department of Personnel, Chairman of the RMFAB, Director 
General of International Cooperation Department,  Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Director 
General of External Finance Relations Department, Ministry of Finance, and at least two 
Provincial Vice-Governors. 
5. 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project a Project Coordination Committee responsible for the management and 
coordination of the various activities and implementing entities under the Project, chaired 
Page  27
-26-  
 
by the Director General of DOR and comprising the Director of each MCTPC Division 
involved in the implementation of the Program, the Head of the RMF Secretariat, and at 
least three DCTPC Directors. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through MCTPC enter into agreements with each Province 
providing for the respective responsibilities in the carrying out of the Project or any part 
thereof, acceptable to the Association.  
B
.
Project Implementation
Environment and Social
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
in carrying out the Project: (i) implement the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework and, in accordance with the provisions of such Framework and as 
may be required, prepare environmental management plans and resettlement action plans 
of Affected Persons; (ii) provide said plans to the Association for its prior review; and 
(iii) thereafter, implement in a manner satisfactory to the Association such environmental 
management plans and resettlement action plans as shall have been approved by the 
Association;  
(b) 
in carrying out the Project, (i) avoid adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities 
caused or likely to be caused by the Project; (ii) apply the Ethnic Minority Development 
Policy in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) through a 
process of informed participation, involve concerned Ethnic Minorities in the design and 
implementation of Sub-projects and works so as to ensure that the benefits received by 
the Ethnic Minorities under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and 
cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights. 
(c) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Environment and 
Social Safeguards Framework, the Ethnic Minority Development Policy and the 
Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines, or any provision therein¸ without the prior 
agreement of the Association. 
(d) 
furnish to the Association for its prior approval any revisions proposed to 
be introduced into the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework and the 
environmental management plans and resettlement action plans of Affected Persons 
prepared pursuant thereof, in order to achieve their objectives; and thereafter introduce 
into such management and action plans and Framework such revisions as shall have been 
agreed with the Association; and 
Page  28
-27-  
 
(e) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said management and action  plans and Framework, and the achievement of their 
objectives.  
8. 
Without limitation to the obligations set forth in paragraph 4. above, the 
Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Parts A. 1, A.2, B.2(b)(ii) and B.3(d)(i) of the 
Project: 
(a) 
at least 60 days prior to the initiation of any works, publicly disseminate 
to the relevant local population the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, the 
Ethnic Minority Development Policy, Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines and 
the Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects, in  form and substance acceptable to the 
Association
 
;
and 
(b) 
prior to the start of any work under such Parts of the Project undertake 
the required environmental and social actions, and provide compensation, resettlement 
and rehabilitation entitlements to the Affected Persons. 
Preservation of the Road Network
9. 
The Borrower shall, in carrying out the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation 
of the national road network under Parts A.1(b) and A.1(c) of the Project, and the 
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the provincial road network under Part A.2(b) 
of the Project: 
(a) 
not later than March 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2005, prepare 
and furnish to the Association for its review and comments, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, an updated 3-year rolling preservation plan and an annual 
work program for road and bridge preservation works covering the national and 
provincial road networks for the succeeding calendar year, and thereafter taking into 
account the Association’s views and comments thereon,  carry out such annual work 
program;  
(b) 
not later than November 1 of each year, commencing November 1, 2005 
and until completion of the Project, cause its Provincial Division of Communication, 
Transport, Post and Construction offices  to furnish to the Association a report on the 
actual physical operations and expenditures incurred for emergency and routine 
maintenance works during the previous Fiscal Year, in a manner and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and. 
Page  29
-28-  
 
(c) 
avoid or minimize any acquisition of land, involuntary displacement of 
Affected Persons (physically and economically), and any negative environmental impact. 
10. 
The Borrower shall, by not later than December 1, 2005, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and 
comments:  
(a) 
an assessment of the existing heavy transport load control facilities and 
operations, including the need for further expansion on such facilities undertaken by a 
qualified and experienced professional, selected in accordance with the provisions of  
Section III, Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and  
(b) 
a draft time-bound action plan to implement the recommendations of 
such assessment, and, thereafter, finalize and implement said time-bound action plan 
taking into action the Association’s comments, if any. 
11. 
The Borrower shall, by June 30 of each year, commencing on June 30, 2005, and 
thereafter until the completion of the Project, carry out a technical audit of Project 
implementation in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
12. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than September 30, 2007, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, a draft long-term investment and maintenance plan to ensure sustainable 
preservation of the Borrower’s road network, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
(b) 
not later than December 31, 2007, taking into account the views 
of the Association,  implement such long-term investment and maintenance plan.  
Capacity Building 
13. 
The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B of the Project, by May 31, 2005, adopt 
and thereafter implement a detailed Human Resource Development Plan, including 
performance indicators to monitor its implementation,  acceptable to the Association, and 
thereafter, by April 30 of each year, commencing April 30, 2006, and until completion of 
the Project, prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval, annual training 
programs and budget to be implementing commencing on October 1 of each year, the 
first such annual training program to be implemented commencing on October 1, 2006.  
Page  30
-29-  
 
14. 
The Borrower shall by May 31, 2005, approve a detailed Information and 
Communications Technology Plan for the MCTPC and DCTPCs under the Program, 
including performance indicators to monitor its implementation, acceptable to the 
Association.  
15. 
The Borrower shall by June 30, 2005, design and furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments, a draft plan for undertaking improved organizational 
arrangements at the MCTPC and DCTPC aimed at  an efficient management of the 
Program, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and by October 1, 2005, 
furnish to the Association a final plan, acceptable to the Association, having taken into 
account the Association’s views thereon; and thereafter promptly implement said plan, in 
a
manner and substance acceptable to the Association.  
16. 
The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to increase the 
revenue basis for the Road Maintenance Fund by increasing its levies on  motor vehicle 
fuel (fuel levy) at a level of not less than Kip 100 per liter, and thereafter, by October 1 of 
each year, commencing October 1, 2005 until completion of the Project, review and if 
needed increase the
 
revenue basis for the Road Maintenance Fund by increasing its levies 
on  motor vehicle fuel (fuel levy) in such amounts so as to achieve annual revenue 
income targets acceptable to the Association, which amounts shall not be less than Kip 
150 per liter by October 1, 2005 and Kip 200 per liter by October 1, 2006.   
17. 
The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary including revisions 
to the RMF regulations to enable (a) increase level of funding for preservation of 
provincial road network, (b) allocation of an appropriate portion of revenues for eligible 
road safety expenditures, and (c) restructuring and strengthening of the management and 
administration of the RMF.  For such purposes the Borrower shall by not later than 
September 30, 2005, prepare and furnish to the Association a proposed time-bound action 
plan for its review and comments, and thereafter taking into account the Associations 
comments, if any, implement such action plan.  
Monitoring and Evaluation
18. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30 and October 31 of each year, 
Page  31
-30-  
 
commencing October 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, promptly after furnishing each 
aforementioned report to the Association, or at such date as the Association shall request, 
the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  32
-31-  
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the 
term 
“eligible Categories” means, in the case of the RMF Special 
Account, Category (1) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and, in the case of the MCTPC Special Account, Categories (1) (b), (2), (3) 
and (4) set forth in said table; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 in respect of the RMF Special Account and an amount equivalent to 
$1,100,000 in respect of the MCTPC Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation in respect of the MCTPC Special Account shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to Categories (1)(b), (2), (3) and (4) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for the Parts of the Project related to the MCTPC Special 
Account shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
 
Page  33
-32-  
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for   deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such   intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make: 
(a) 
any deposit of the Authorized Allocation into any Special Account if, at 
any time, the Association shall have determined that the Borrower has an unrecovered or 
unresolved Special Account in respect of any Grant Agreement or Development Credit 
Agreement with the International Development Association or Loan Agreement with the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 
(b) 
further deposits into any Special Account as replenishment or process 
any withdrawal application
 of the Borrower in connection with such Special Account: 
 
(i) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have 
determined 
 
 
  that the Borrower has an unrecovered or 
unresolved   Special Account in respect of any Grant Agreement 
or   Development Credit Agreement with the International 
Page  34
-33-  
 
Development Association or Loan Agreement with the 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 
(ii) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; 
(iii) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(iv) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that 
Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  35
-34-  
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
Page  36
-35-  
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Project Development 
Objectives 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome 
Information 
(a)  National and local road 
assets are preserved to 
provide sustainable 
improved travel and 
access for road users 
and communities in 
most areas 
countrywide; and 
 
(b) Sustainable financing 
and management of 
roads is operational 
countrywide with 
improved institutional 
capacity at central and 
local levels in the 
public and private 
sectors. 
 
80% of the National Road 
Network (7,140 km)  remains 
in excellent to good 
condition
1
;
and 30% of the 
Provincial Road Network 
(6,476 km) remains in good 
condition
2
.
Routine maintenance on at 
least 90 percent, and periodic 
maintenance and rehabilitation 
on at least 8 percent, of the 
National and Provincial Road 
networks are funded by 
domestic revenues including 
those recovered from road 
users by September of each 
year 
 
To gauge effectiveness of the 
Governments program for 
road asset management  
 
Intermediate Results 
One per Component 
Results Indicators for Each 
Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
Component One:   
Road Preservation 
Periodic Maintenance 
of National and Local 
Roads 
 
Component One:
 
2,000 km of National Roads 
and 2,000 km of Provincial 
Roads at the national level are 
subject to periodic 
maintenance by the end of 
project 
 
Component One:
 
Implementing Agency to 
monitor progress and make 
case for continued support 
 
Inform high level decision  
makers of outcomes 
 
Component Two:   
Capacity Building 
Road Management and 
Financing.  Road 
Maintenance Fund  
support 
 
Road Transport and 
Safety 
 
Component Two :
 
Road Maintenance Fund 
annual revenue reaches LAK 
100 billion by September 30, 
2008 
 
An integrated vehicle and 
driver registration system  is 
established at MCTPC and the 
Component Two:
 
Inform high level decision  
makers of outcomes 
 
Variations from targets will 
be used to re-evaluate 
capacity building strategy on 
an annual basis 
Page  37
-36-  
 
Institutional Capacity 
Building 
 
provinces, by September 30, 
2006 
 
Current level of compliance is 
retained  (incidence of 
overloading exceeding 20 
percent stays less than 10 
percent) for the duration of the 
project 
 
Road safety audits are 
mainstreamed for the National 
Road Network by September 
30, 2007 
 
A
program of hazardous 
locations improvements is 
implemented by September of 
each year 
 
Performance levels in priority 
MCTPC / DCTPC functions 
attain the targets specified in 
the capacity building strategy, 
by the end of the project 
 
Component Three:   
Project Administration 
Project Monitoring  
Component Three:  
 
Progress of project is kept 
within target at the estimated 
cost (related to Project 
Implementation Plan),  every 
semester until the end of 
project 
 
Component Three:
 
Inform high level decision  
makers of outcomes and seek 
solutions to restraining 
problems 
 
For the purpose of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
1
Average International Roughness Index (IRI); defined as IRI less than or equal to 3, excellent; 
and IRI less than 5 and higher than 3, good. 
 
2
Based on the condition ratings of the LRD road classification data, good condition is defined by 
the surface, drainage and structure condition.
Page  38
3
7
A
r
r
a
n
g
e
m
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
T
a
r
g
e
t
V
a
l
u
e
s
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
R
e
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
O
u
t
c
o
m
e
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
Y
R
1
Y
R
2
Y
R
3
Y
R
4
Y
R
5
F
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
a
n
d
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
r
u
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
8
0
%
o
f
t
h
e
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
o
a
d
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
(
7
,
1
4
0
k
m
)
r
e
m
a
i
n
s
i
n
e
x
c
e
l
l
e
n
t
t
o
g
o
o
d
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
;
a
n
d
3
0
%
(
6
,
4
7
6
k
m
)
o
f
t
h
e
P
r
o
v
i
n
c
i
a
l
R
o
a
d
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
r
e
m
a
i
n
s
i
n
g
o
o
d
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
.
R
o
u
t
i
n
e
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
o
n
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
9
0
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
,
a
n
d
p
e
r
i
o
d
i
c
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
n
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
8
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
,
o
f
t
h
e
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
P
r
o
v
i
n
c
i
a
l
R
o
a
d
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
a
r
e
f
u
n
d
e
d
b
y
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
r
e
v
e
n
u
e
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
t
h
o
s
e
r
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
f
r
o
m
r
o
a
d
u
s
e
r
s
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
o
f
e
a
c
h
y
e
a
r
7
3
%
o
f
N
R
N
2
3
%
o
f
P
R
N
8
0
%
f
o
r
r
o
u
t
i
n
e
;
6
%
f
o
r
p
e
r
i
o
d
i
c
a
n
d
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
R
M
F
A
B
A
n
n
u
a
l
R
e
p
o
r
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
Q
u
a
r
t
e
r
l
y
R
e
p
o
r
t
A
n
n
u
a
l
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
A
u
d
i
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
S
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
M
i
s
s
i
o
n
B
a
c
k
T
o
O
f
f
i
c
e
R
e
p
o
r
t
R
M
F
A
B
M
C
T
P
C
-
P
M
D
M
C
T
P
C
-
P
M
D
I
D
A
R
e
s
u
l
t
s
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
f
o
r
E
a
c
h
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
O
n
e
:
2
,
0
0
0
k
m
o
f
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
o
a
d
s
a
n
d
2
,
0
0
0
k
m
o
f
P
r
o
v
i
n
c
i
a
l
R
o
a
d
s
a
t
t
h
e
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
l
e
v
e
l
a
r
e
s
u
b
j
e
c
t
t
o
p
e
r
i
o
d
i
c
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
b
y
t
h
e
e
n
d
o
f
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
5
0
0
k
m
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
4
5
0
k
m
P
r
o
v
i
n
c
i
a
l
R
M
P
2
,
R
A
D
a
n
d
L
R
D
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
M
C
T
P
C
-
D
O
R
-
R
A
D
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
T
w
o
:
R
o
a
d
M
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
F
u
n
d
a
n
n
u
a
l
r
e
v
e
n
u
e
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
L
A
K
1
0
0
b
i
l
l
i
o
n
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
3
0
,
2
0
0
8
A
n
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
a
n
d
d
r
i
v
e
r
L
A
K
3
4
b
i
l
l
i
o
n
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
Page  39
-
3
8
-
r
e
g
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
i
s
e
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
t
M
C
T
P
C
a
n
d
t
h
e
p
r
o
v
i
n
c
e
s
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
3
0
,
2
0
0
6
C
u
r
r
e
n
t
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
c
o
m
p
l
i
a
n
c
e
i
s
r
e
t
a
i
n
e
d
(
i
n
c
i
d
e
n
c
e
o
f
o
v
e
r
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
e
x
c
e
e
d
i
n
g
2
0
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
s
t
a
y
s
l
e
s
s
t
h
a
n
1
0
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
)
f
o
r
t
h
e
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
R
o
a
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
a
u
d
i
t
s
a
r
e
m
a
i
n
s
t
r
e
a
m
e
d
f
o
r
t
h
e
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
o
a
d
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
3
0
,
2
0
0
7
A
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
o
f
h
a
z
a
r
d
o
u
s
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
s
i
s
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
o
f
e
a
c
h
y
e
a
r
P
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e
l
e
v
e
l
s
i
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
M
C
T
P
C
/
D
C
T
P
C
f
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
s
a
t
t
a
i
n
t
h
e
t
a
r
g
e
t
s
s
p
e
c
i
f
i
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
t
r
a
t
e
g
y
b
y
t
h
e
e
n
d
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
n
o
n
e
p
r
o
v
i
n
c
e
1
0
%
O
n
g
o
i
n
g
f
o
r
o
n
e
r
o
a
d
A
s
p
e
r
a
n
n
u
a
l
w
o
r
k
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
T
o
b
e
e
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
b
y
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
2
0
0
5
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
T
h
r
e
e
:
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
o
f
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
s
k
e
p
t
w
i
t
h
i
n
t
a
r
g
e
t
a
t
t
h
e
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
c
o
s
t
(
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
P
l
a
n
)
,
e
v
e
r
y
s
e
m
e
s
t
e
r
u
n
t
i
l
t
h
e
e
n
d
o
f
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
s
p
e
r
P
I
P
Page  40
-
39
-
