Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7246 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Integrated Municipal Project 
–
Betim Municipality) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF BETIM 
 
Dated January 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7246 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 2005, between the  INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
MUNICIPALITY OF BETIM (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais
 (COPASA), a company 
controlled by the State of Minas Gerais which, inter alia, is the concessionaire of the 
water and sanitation services in the Borrower’s territory, has agreed to provide funds for 
the financing of Part C of the Project and to undertake certain obligations related to the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project, as provided in the agreements referred to in Section 
1.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement; 
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
(a) 
“COFIEX” means 
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
,
the 
Guarantor’s Comission of External Borrowings, within the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Planning, Budget and Management, and governed by the Guarantor’s 
Decreto
 No. 3502, 
of June 12, 2000; 
(b) 
“COPASA Complementary Project Activities Agreement” means the 
agreement entered into, on May 13, 2004, between COPASA and the Borrower 
providing, inter alia, for the following obligations of COPASA related to the Project: (i) 
to finance a program to promote access by the poor to sanitation connections in the 
Borrower’s territory, to repair the existing sewerage network in the Borrower’s territory, 
including the assessment of irregular sewerage connections (
ligações cruzadas
)
to 
drainage and their regularization, and to upgrade COPASA’s quality control program to 
monitor industrial effluents discharged into the sewerage system in the Borrower’s 
territory and establish mechanisms for ensuring repairs; and (ii) to carry out the 
recommendations and actions under its responsibility as set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plan; 
(c) 
“COPASA Provision of Funds Agreement” means the agreement, 
entered into, on December 19, 2003, between the State of Minas Gerais, COPASA and 
the Borrower, which provides for the collaboration between COPASA and the Borrower 
in the carrying out of Part C of the Project, including, inter alia, the obligation of 
COPASA to provide counterpart funds for the financing of Part C of the Project in an 
amount equivalent to $12,000,000; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, presented by the 
Borrower to the Bank on January 30, 2004, with the actions and recommendations to 
mitigate the environmental impacts of the carrying out of Part C of the Project; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“PMU” means the Project management unit referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(j) 
“SEMAS” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Social Assistance; 
(k) 
“SEMEIA” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Environment; and 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-four million 
seventy-five thousand Dollars ($24,075,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that COFIEX has recommended the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date recommended by 
COFIEX. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case 
with the prior 
authorization of the Guarantor, through the Guarantor's Secretariat of Treasury,
 request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent 
debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, 
administrative, environmental, financial, technical and engineering practices, and shall 
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, in the Project implementation, carry out or cause to be 
carried out the recommendations and actions set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the COPASA Provision of Funds Agreement and the COPASA 
Complementary Project Activities Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce its rights under such agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower shall: 
 (a) 
establish and maintain, within the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning, a 
unit (the PMU) responsible for the management and supervision of the Project, such unit to 
comprise an executive coordinator and three sector coordinators for procurement, financial 
management and institutional strengthening matters, and a procurement specialist, all with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU shall 
also include a representative of COPASA to serve as a liaison between COPASA and the 
Borrower for all Project matters of COPASA’s interest; and 
 
(b) 
not later than June 30, 2005, employ, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a project management consulting firm to assist 
the PMU in the management and supervision of the Project, and to provide support to the 
PMU in administrative, technical and financial matters relating to the carrying out of the 
Project. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2006, or when an amount equivalent to 50% of the Loan 
amount has been disbursed, whichever comes first, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within thirty days after such report has been delivered to the Bank, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.06. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 
4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system acceptable to the Bank, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligation set out in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank 
(the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that COPASA shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the COPASA Provision of Funds Agreement or the 
COPASA Complementary Project Activities Agreement, provided, however, that this 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section shall not apply if the Borrower provides evidence to the Bank that any such 
obligation may be complied with under alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, subject to the proviso in such 
Section 5.01. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the financial management system referred to in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement has been established as provided therein. 
Section 6.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor's Central Bank. 
 
Section 6.03. 
The date April 18, 2005, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Mayor of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Prefeitura Municipal de Betim 
 
Rua Professor Osvaldo Franco, 55 - Centro 
 
32510-050 Betim, Minas Gerais 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-31) 3531-3499 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais (SEAIN) 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 225 4022 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF BETIM 
 
By /s/ Carlaile de Jesus Pedrosa 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works  
19,494,250 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
85% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Goods 
650,000 
 
        80% 
 
(3) Consultants' services 
 3,500,000 
 
        84% 
 
(4) Services under  
 
Part A.3 (c) of the Project 
190,000 
        84% 
 
(5) Front-end fee 
240,750 
  Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 24,075,000 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:  
 (a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Guarantor for civil works supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Guarantor; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor 
or for civil works supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower: 
 
(a) 
for goods and works costing less than the equivalent of $350,000 and 
$5,000,000 per contract, respectively;  
 
(b) 
for services of individual consultants costing less than the equivalent of 
$50,000 per contract; and  
 
(c) 
for services of consulting firms costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 per contract. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  16
-
15
-
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
of $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $6,500,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  18
-
17
-
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in achieving a sustainable 
socio-environmental development, reducing poverty, and enhancing the quality of life in 
the Borrower’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Municipal Policies and Institutional Capacity Strengthening
1. 
Updating and implementation of the Borrower’s long-term strategic development 
plan, by applying state-of-the-art approaches, including policy analysis of options and cost 
implications, proposals for alternative development goals related to fiscal performance, 
methodologies for stakeholder impact evaluation and consensus building, indicators and 
evaluation criteria for impact of policy actions, and detailed monitoring of financial 
performance, such plan to be drawn up in a participatory framework. The activities will 
include an updating of the Borrower’s urban master plan (approved in December 1996, 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2963, as amended) and a review of major institutional, 
financial and territorial planning issues to be discussed in the context of the Belo Horizonte 
metropolitan area, with preparation of policy papers consisting of specific analysis on 
public expenditures reviews, selected fiscal and financial management issues, property tax 
policy and land regulation, cadastre and tax collection, territorial management and 
economic instruments for environmental management, policies to address regularization of 
illegal settlements, cost-effective programs to foster access to land and basic services, 
social development, including monitoring of the unified health service cadastre and 
applications for broader policy formulation, environmental management, including scope 
for economic instruments and payment for environmental services, consensus building for 
policy making, studies related to improved transparency, accountability, and information-
sharing mechanisms in selected areas of the Borrower’s government. 
2. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s policies, regulation, and management capacity for 
a
broad set of services provided by the Borrower, consisting of: 
 
(a) 
an assessment of the Borrower’s policy, regulation and management 
arrangements to assist in establishing an appropriate institutional and legal framework for 
the delivery of efficient services by the Borrower; 
Page  21
-
20
-
(b) 
establishment of an information system for institutional and public control 
to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to fulfill regulatory responsibility for local service 
provision and to enhance governance by giving public access to information on expected 
and achieved quality of local services. This will require an assessment of the quality of 
current municipal services, determination of contractually required quality of services, 
carrying out of user consultations, and establishment of benchmarks for service quality; and 
 
(c) 
establishment of a technical cadastre of basic infrastructure to complement 
the Borrower’s existing geographically referenced management database. 
3. 
Strengthening of SEMEIA’s institutional and technical capacity through: 
 
(a) 
preparation and carrying out of an environmental management plan 
addressing issues such as policy instruments, financing mechanisms, administrative 
procedures, environmental database, transparency and public participation, and monitoring 
and evaluation mechanisms, and including actions to strengthen such Secretariat’s technical 
capacity to carry out its licensing mandate; 
 
(b) 
assistance to the Paraopeba River Basin Committee, responsible for the 
monitoring of the water quality of the Betim river, by expanding the geologic and geo-
technical database of such Committee, expanding its cadastre of water users and pollution 
discharge, developing decision models for water withdrawal and discharge, and mapping 
land use and aptitude; 
 
(c) 
improvement of SEMEIA’s capacity to monitor the quality of industrial 
effluent discharge into water resources bodies; and 
 
(d) 
design and implementation of an environmental education program to 
increase the Borrower’s population’s awareness of local environmental vulnerabilities and 
of measures to safeguard the environment. 
Part B
:
Social Inclusion
1. 
Carrying out of the plan, presented to the Bank by the Borrower on January 30, 
2004, for: (a) the resettlement of the population occupying the Betim river banks, which 
will be displaced as a result of the carrying out of Part C of the Project; (b) expropriation 
of the undeveloped lots of land in the area where such Part C will be carried out; (c) 
provision of legal and social assistance to the families being resettled; and (d) support to 
income generation activities for such families. 
2. 
Strengthening of SEMAS’ policies and programs through: 
Page  22
-
21
-
(a) 
the carrying out of studies and institutional enhancement activities, such 
as: (i) a risk and vulnerability assessment; (ii) impact evaluation of social policies and 
programs; (iii) an institutional capacity assessment; and (iv) a civil society and business 
sector assessment; 
 (b) 
financial support to the physical improvements of SEMAS’ regional 
offices, including those for the social promotion known as “Salão de Encontro”; and 
 
(c) 
an evaluation of the Guarantor’s social safety net programs consisting of 
cash transfers to reduce poverty in the Borrower’s territory (
Bolsa Família
), specifically 
their targeting criteria, gaps in coverage, duplication with the Borrower’s cash transfer 
programs, allocation transparency and consistency, local management, and database 
efficiency. 
Part C
:
Infrastructure and Urban Environmental Rehabilitation
Carrying out of investments for the environmental improvement of the Betim river 
basin by: 
1. 
expanding basic infrastructure, consisting of about 42 kilometers of secondary 
sewerage network and sewerage interceptors, one sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 
about 500 liters per second, about 7,500 sewerage connections, about 15 kilometers of 
macro-drainage, about 18 kilometers of secondary roads improvements, and about 5 open-
air flood regularization basins; and 
2. 
protecting the water through the establishment of three urban parks (totaling about 
30 hectares), and restoring riparian vegetation. 
Part D
:
Project Management
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the establishment and operation of the PMU, supervision of civil 
works under the Project, and auditing of the Project financial statements. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2008 through  
 
August 15, 2021 
3.57% 
 
On February 15, 2022 
3.61%
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
2. 
Bidders for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
National Competitive Bidding
1. 
Goods (including the services under Part A.3 (c) of the Project) and works, 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $350,000 and $5,000,000 per contract, 
respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable 
to the Bank. Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement to be undertaken pursuant to this 
Part C: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be 
disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio)
 of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale. 
2. Shopping
Goods and services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, works and the services under Part A.3 (c) of the 
Page  27
-
26
-
Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B 
of this Section, and the first two contracts for goods and for works and the contract for 
services under Part A.3 (c) of the Project to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
this Section II. 
2. 
The short-list of consulting firms to be selected pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 1 above for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of firms for supervision of works, auditing of Project accounts, and 
Project evaluation and monitoring may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of firms, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants, costing in the aggregate not more than 
$500,000 equivalent, for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  
Page  29
-
28
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of an individual 
consultant, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, and the terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contract. 
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.  
 
