Bet
Meihor corn voc6 r
Brazil: Betim Integrated Municipal Project
Environmental Assessment
Executive Summary                       E867
1. INTRODUCTION                                                    Volume 1
The goal of the Betim Integrated Municipal Project ("the project") is to support and assist
the municipality of Betim, in the Brazilian state of Minais Gerais, to achieve sustainable
socio-environmental municipal through poverty reduction, improvement of urban
environmental conditions and enhancing the city's quality of life. Specifically, the project
will support Betim in developing and implementing a series of integrated infrastructure and
social service investments in the Betim River Basin - the city's poorest and most
environmentally degraded region - coupled with broader efforts to improve municipal
governance, regulatory policy and institutional strengthening. To reach this objective will
require a balanced approach consisting of integrated, well-targeted investments in
infrastructure and social services, coupled with broader efforts to improve municipal
governance, regulatory policy and institutional strengthening.
The project's principal activities comprise: (i) municipal infrastructure and urban
environmental rehabilitation within the Betim River Basin, including construction of a
new sewage treatment plant and five open-air, flood regularization basins, improvements
to 15 kilometers (km) drainage canals and 18 km of secondary roads, as well as the
restoration of and environmental protection to urban wetlands and watercourses through
the creation of three urban parks totaling 30 hectares (ha) and the restoration of bordering
riparian vegetation; (ii) social inclusion programs, including resettlement of about 760
families living in flood-prone areas and improved social policies and programs at the
municipal level; (iii) institutional strengthening of the municipality's policies, finance and
management capacities related to governance and municipal planning, including local
services management, development of improved information systems and basic
infrastructure cadastre, as well as specific activities targeting environmental management
strengthening, including development of a Municipal Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) as a critical component of the Urban Master Plan, support for improved water
resources management and water quality monitoring, as well as an environmental
education program.
The project is classified as a "Category A" under the World Bank's (the Bank's)
Environmental Assessment (EA) policy (OP 4.01). As such, a full-scale EA was conducted
as part of project preparation to identify the project's potential environmental impacts,
propose appropriate measures to mitigate any negative impacts and enhance any positive
impacts, and develop an environmental management plan comprising all mitigation and
enhancement measures to be implemented as part of project activities. The following
document summarizes the results of the EA.
2. BACKGROUND
The fast-growing municipality of Betim (Betim) is located within the Belo Horizonte
metropolitan area, 35 km from the state capital of Minas Gerais. Betim's population is
306.875, of which 298.258 live in the urban area (IBGE-2000 Census). The entire Betim
Municipality is located within the Paraopeba River watershed, part of the San Francisco
X_ FGL                     1 
i ib



Melhor cor voei P
River Basin. The Betim River crosses the city, draining into the Paraopeba River, which
constitutes Betim's southern boundary.
Idt      i   f  e Bo       /n       m p  ae h      ledto sl p
growth in Betim over the last 30 years, which in turn has caused increasing urban
environmental degradation due to: (i) haphazard occupation of the lower river basin; (ii)
repeated floods affecting predominantly low-income areas and roads; (iii) urbanization
impacts on open spaces; and, (iv) discharge of untreated sewage into streams draining to
the Betim River. This has lead to deteriorating water quality and public health scares
within the Betim River - ultimately leading to civil society calls for the state water and
sanitation company, COPASA, and the Betim Municipality to "cease discharging untreated
sewerage or any other polluting effluents into the Betim River and its tributaries." Actions
between Betim's Municipal government and COPASA have yielded large strides in
planning for and investment in municipal urban and social infrastructure and
environmental management. One outcome of these efforts is the proposed project, which
targets flve closely related problems through the following goals:
(i) Municipal institutional strengthening to ensure achievement and long-term
sustainability of project goals;
(ii) Reversal of envirornmental degradation of the Betim River and its tributaries, due
mainly to high pollution levels caused by the discharge of untreated domestic sewerage;
(iii) Reduction of flood risk in the urbanized Betim River basin, including its main
tributary the Riacho das Areias;
(iv) Expansion of the municipal road system to improve mobility and transport for the
poorer sectors of the population;
repate flod afectng  reomianty lw-ncoe aeasan rods;(ii) rbaizaio



Betim
Melhor cor voc
(v) Enhancement of quality of life for people currently living in flood-prone areas of the
city through the project-sponsored relocation and reestablishment of those populations,
along with those who will be obliged to move to build project infrastructure works;
(vi) Creation of new parks and public leisure facilities, to provide recreational
opportunities, green spaces and promote environmental sustainability of project works.
3.0 - KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
The following section describes project activities with potential environmental and social
impacts.
3.1 SEWERAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT: Currently, about 78% of the Betim River
Basin population is served by sewerage collection networks, the contents of which are then
discharged untreated into the River's watercourses. The project would support the
expansion of the sewerage system to include all areas of the lower Betim River basin and
its Corrego Areias tributary, and a new project-financed wastewater treatment plant would
treat all waters collected through the existing and expanded sewerage system. This new
treatment plant would serve an estimated 291,500 persons. Thus, the project would result
in sewerage collection for 95% of Betim's population, and the treatment of 100% of the
collected sewage.
Table 1 summarizes the sewerage infrastructure that would be built by the project. This
includes sewerage collection networks and interceptors, new household connections to
ensure linkage of households not connected to the existing sewerage networks, the new
sewerage treatment station and a pump station. Most of the project-built interceptors would
be located along the valley floor of the Betim River and its main tributaries, funneling the
sewerage to the new sewerage treatment plant. The treatment plant site is about 15 hectares
(ha) in size, located on the Betim River's right bank, approximately 1 km downstream
from the urban area and 11 km upstream from the Betim-Paraopeba River confluence.
Table 1: Planned Project Sewerage Collection and Treatment Infrastructure
Planned Project Sewerage Infrastructure              Quantity
Sewerage collection networks                42 km
Household-sewerage connections              23,400 new connections
Interceptors                                60 km
Pump station                                1
Sewerage Treatment Station                  1 (ETE Central) treating 1000 I/s
Five design alternatives were considered for the treatment plant. The chosen design
includes: (i) Preliminary treatment (concurrent grading and desanding); (ii) Anaerobic
digestion units (eight (8) anaerobic reactors with ascending flow, implemented in two
stages (four reactors at a time)); (iii) Aerobic units (four (4) activated sludge reactors
(diffuse-air system) and four (4) secondary decanters implemented in two stages (two of
each units at a time)); (iv) Dehydration units andfinal sludge disposal; and (v) Waste gas
burners. Two alternatives were considered for the disposal of sludge produced in the
treatment plant: (i) disposal within the existing Betim sanitary landfill; or (ii) construction
of a new landfill on the treatment plant site. The latter was chosen as the most appropriate.
Studies are to be undertaken to evaluate the potential for using the resulting sludge for
agricultural purposes.
3



Be i .m.           ' 
Melhor com vocA #
3.2 DRAINAGE
Hydrological and hydraulic studies were conducted so as to: (1) evaluate main channel
flows under different project-related scenarios; (2) evaluate current and future flood risk in
urban channels, and identify potenial overflow points and causes; (3) identify alternatives
for flood control and risk management; and, (4) develop designs of the proposed drainage
structures, including channels and flood retention basins.
Channel Improvements: The original alternatives evaluated to improve urban drainage
included combinations of dredging, channelization, and flood retention basin construction
- all with concurrent road construction along the stream right-of-way (see below). While
these alternatives could achieve project drainage and transportation goals, the
environmental impact analysis done as part of this EA led to an additional alternative being
considered: maintaining the natural streambed to the extent possible, with restoration and
revegetation of riverine slopes, desilting of the river bed, creation of linear parks along the
floodplain to buffer urban impacts on streams and promote long-term works sustainability,
and construction of roads adjacent to these areas. The choice of specific intervention would
be determined based on existing land use and vegetation. In highly urbanized areas,
channelization into open concrete sections with roads constructed adjacent to channels
would be the preferred option so as to minimize the need for expropriation and
resettlement. In less constrained urban areas, the project would promote the maintenance of
natural streambeds and vegetation. All stream areas affected by the project would be
revegetated with native riparian vegetation, and the development of linear parks would be
promoted wherever possible.
Flood Retention Basins: The project will build five flood retention basins in vacant lots
within the upper Riacho das Arias sub-basin that could minimize flood peaks further
downstream and allow adequate operation of the existing drainage facilities in less flood-
prone areas. This solution will reduce flooding within the sub-basin to the 25-year flood
event level, while minimizing environmental, social and financial cost.
3.3 ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Channelization and Roads: The municipality has chosen to undertake simultaneous
construction of drainage channels and 18 km of secondary urban roads, so as to: (1)
complete the prioritized urban road network; (2) ensure public service provision such as
public transportation, and garbage collection; (3) facilitate the construction of project-
sponsored sewerage interceptors, to ensure that domestic and industrial effluents reach
treatment and final disposal sites; (4) improve floodplain management and flood control.
The original project design would have built concrete drainage channels with roads directly
adjacent, justified on the grounds that fewer expropriations and household relocations
would be necessary, resulting in lower all-around costs and less inconvenience to local
residents. However, the findings of this EA resulted in changes to this design, and roads
routes will be selected to minimize environmental impact during construction and
operation. This is more thoroughly described in the Section 4.1 and the Environmental
Management Plan below.
3.4 URBAN PARKS AND LANDSCAPING/REVEGETATION PROJECTS
The project will support the establishment of three parks, totaling an area of approximately
30 ha. Two of these parks (Parque do Inga and Sitio das Poc6es) are adjacent to streams
receiving flood improvement and restoration activities by the project. These two parks
would nrn parallel to both streams, buffering the urban impact to the riverine habitats. The
4



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T n 1.m rj  c ; J   ;.- &- _  * 
Melhor corn vod~ A
third park (Jardim Perla) is within a highly urbanized upland area. All parks would include
sports, recreational and environmental educational facilities
Additionally, the project would include a Green Areas Recovery and Revegetation
Program. This program would directly benefit 18km of river banks through revegetation
and restoration activities designed to provide improved aquatic habitat to resident and
migratory species. This would be additional to the project's indirect benefits to all aquatic
and riparian habitat within the Betim River Basin through the improvement of water
quality through project-supported collection and treatment of domestic and non-domestic
wastewater. These actions will result in significantly improved stream and riparian habitat
in the project area.
Sk
7-7~~~1 W 5   1 
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4W



KPVWLLA ViJIZiA nJ|qts  F RUBf3SA VARhEA FULIPl
t£ ,Qt,            VRI
'  *  I b t  #,  ,            ,  \,~~~~~~~~~~~~~t%t 
~~  ~aur IN  /                                  t*11~~~ARCAJAE JAREi  ,.ICTD
t Xr- S ~I:                                            Ff     .3-
C E  N   lily~~              ~   ~   ~ .r3*  -.                       -.            ?N ;  --;t  RS;
' ~                        9DVE~tA_80 FAYAL
/                           IBp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMBJ
';r....                     -.g1t      MA                         PRGRM   DE   BMA-Nig URBAN
ETE                                 e.     r
CEN TRALr                                                                                              r~w1s
pumtmtm.~ ~ ~~~~~4
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
EllItmffmausmA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL:
SB'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Be
Melhor cor voci 1
4 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
4.1 WORLD BANK SAFEGUARDS
The project triggered and addressed the following Bank safeguards: Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12);
and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). The project design incorporates the mitigation measures for
each policy, as described below.
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment (EA)
A comprehensive EA has been carried out in accordance with Bank policy for Category A
projects. The EA evaluates the existing conditions, identifies the potential direct and
indirect environmental impacts and proposes adequate mitigation measures for each
negative impact identified, as well measures for enhancing each identified positive impact.
The mitigation and enhancement measures are summarized in the Environmental
Management Plan, including associated costs, responsibilities and schedule. A public
consultation exercise has been carried out supported by appropriate documentation
allowing for a meaningful community decision-making process.
As part of the project objectives and design, the project has a strong environmental
emphasis, including strengthening the environmental institutional capacity of the municipal
environmental secretariat and the capacity of the regional river basin committee.
Moreover, the project will undertake a review of the environmental policies and
regulations in order to scale up the municipal capacity to respond to the environmental
needs at the local level. Through the development of an updated and comprehensive
environmental management plan associated with the municipal master plan, the project
will improve and enhance natural resources management. The project investments will also
strongly reduce and mitigate social and environmental vulnerabilities, including natural
disasters such as flooding and land slides. It will also protect people's health by preventing
contact with untreated waste water.
Consultation
A series of public consultation events were carried out as part of the project preparation
and the environmental licensing process. Finally, a well-publicized Public Consultation
Meeting took place on January 23, 2004 regarding the final EA, which was made available
at the Municipal Environrnental Secretariat for public consultation. The key issues raised at
the consultation event are summarized in the EA.
7



Be
Melhor corm vodi F
OP 4.04 Natural Habitats
Brazilian national law considers river banks greater than 30 m on either side of water
courses greater than lOm wide (such as the case of the Betim River and its tributaries) as
Areas of Permanent Preservation (APP). The Brazilian Forest Code defines an APP as an
"area protected under the terms of Articles 2 and 3 of this Law, whether it is covered by
native vegetation or not, which provides environmental functions of preserving water
resources, landscape, geological stability, biodiversity, gene flow of the flora and fauna,
protecting soil and to ensure the well-being of the human population." These areas thus
constitute "Critical Natural Habitats" in accordance with the Bank's policy.
The Forest Code allows for possible intervention in APPs for essential public services
infrastructure works such as transport, sanitation and energy, providing they are declared to
be of public benefit, where there are no technical or location alternatives to the proposed
works, and providing prior approval has been granted by the competent state
environmental authority.
There are several APPs within the project area, patchily distributed and suffering from
different levels of environmental degradation. The EA evaluated the current state of APPs
in the project area, and the potential project impact on these APPs. These results were used
to fine-tune the design of project interventions. Specifically, the project would minimize
and mitigate impact to Critical Natural Habitat areas (APPs) through integrating the
following concepts:
(i)   Streams within the project area support a variety of different land uses, existing
vegetation and degrees of human intervention. In highly urbanized areas,
concrete channelization to achieve flood control goals would be acceptable to
minimize costs and social disruption. In less constrained urbanized areas, the
project would instead strive to provide set-backs between new roads and
streams, maintain watercourses in their natural bed, and undertake activities to
promote riparian vegetation along all creek lengths. Specific interventions
should be selected that enhance the existing ecological values of riparian areas.
(ii)  Channelization of streams should be done only if it is necessary to achieve
hydraulic and hydrological goals (to contain flooding).
(iii) Secondary road design should aim to: (a) maximize the distance between lateral
roads and streams, thereby preserving to the extent possible the APPs as well as
retaining the natural features of the streambed; (b) modify the existing road
geometry so as to preserve existing patches of APP vegetation and maintain the
water course's natural bed.
(iv)  In other instances, the natural streambed and/or vegetated banks should be
retained wherever possible, as this provides significant ecological and
landscape value.
(v)   Any APP affected through project works should be restored through
revegetation of native species, and, if possible, linear urban parks established.
Project Natural Habitat Inpacts: With the adjustment of project drainage and lateral road
design, the Project would have a highly positive impact on biodiversity and natural
habitats. This would result from the: removal (through collection and treatment) of current
water pollution sources; relocation of families living in floodplain areas; establishment of
30 ha of urban parks; and rehabilitation of riparian vegetation along all stream-courses
8



Betim
Melhor com voc6F
which are at present affected and degraded. Moreover, the Project will ensure that the
system of roads and channels will target alternatives aimed at: (i) maximizing, as far as
possible, the natural water course beds; (ii) maximizing the preservation of the APPs and
riparian vegetation along water courses; (iii) promoting the use of near-stream space for
expanding linear parks, to promote long-term sustainability of water quality and flood
control improvements, enhance environmental awareness among local residents, and
alleviating the urban impact of flooding; and (iv) consolidating protection of existing
parks/protected areas so as to maximize the long-term sustainability of project water
quality and flood control interventions.
OP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Project infrastructure works (flood retention basins, roads and channels) will require 820
families to be relocated. Additionally, about 323 uninhabited plots will be used, whose
owners will need to be awarded compensation.
A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was developed in accordance with Bank policy. The
Executive Summary of the Plan is annexed.
OP 4.37- Dam Safety
Upstream from the area of direct project intervention is an existing reservoir created by the
Varzea Flores Dam on the Betim River. In accordance with the Bank's policy, the EA
evaluated the operation and condition of this dam. The reservoir provides water supply for
the Metropolitan Area of Belo Horizonte, and is managed by COPASA - the State of
Minas Gerais Sanitation Company. The dam, built in the 1970s, is regularly evaluated for
safety.
While the project does not include activities related to the dam, the downstream
interventions clearly would be affected by dam operations. This is especially true for the
operation of the five project-constructed retention basins for flood control purposes, whose
goals are to retain flood waters, mitigate the downstream flow peaks and enable the proper
operation of the existing drainage system. As such, the development of the flood control
plan will be done in conjunction with that of the Varzea Flores dam operation plan so
ensure coordinated activities.
4.2 OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The EA found the range of potential environmental impacts (positive or negative) relate
primarily to water quality, flood control and drainage, biodiversity, environmental
management and strategic planning. On balance, the proposed project is expected to be
highly positive from an environmental standpoint. It would improve environmental quality
of the urban wetlands and water-courses of the Betim River Basin through the
implementation of sewage collection and treatment, resettlement of flood-prone
settlements, creek restoration and urban parks development, improvements in water quality
related to industrial pollution through improvements in regulation, licensing, and
monitoring, and through promoting the integration of environmental concerns in long-term
municipal development planning. Additionally, project-supported training activities
targeting regulators, planners and decision-makers, as well as stakeholders would induce a
series of behavioral changes among urban residents, which would be expected to be
environmentally positive.
9



Bet in
Melhor corn voc&M
Positive Environmental Impacts:
Water Quality: The project would result in significant water quality improvements to the
Betim and Paraopeba Rivers through the reduction and treatment of pollution sources, and
restoration of environmental services provided by riparian zones of urban streams. The
project will directly address the current lack of wastewater collection and treatment -
which is responsible for a number of critical negative urban environmental and quality-of-
life impacts for Betim and downstream populations. Specifically, the project will address
the city's current critical water quality situation through repairs to the existing sewerage
network, the expansion of sewerage services to cover all urban areas within Betim's two
primary watersheds, the identification of illegal household sewerage connections, and
construction of a sewage treatment plant with a 500 liters/second (Vs) capacity. In
additional to the reduction and treatment of domestic pollution sources, the project will
target industrial and other non-domestic pollution sources for reduction through
identification of existing and potential pollution sources (through the establishment of a
cadastre), implementation of a water quality monitoring program to identify the presence
and composition of industrial pollutants, and improvements in environmental regulation
and licensing. Additionally, by emphasizing the incorporation of environmental criteria in
the design, planning and implementation of municipal development, as well as promoting
environmental education amongst residents, the project will indirectly lead to long-term
improvements in water quality. Lastly, project activities to improve drainage, restore
riparian vegetation and create linear ecological parks along creek lengths will result in the
restoration of important environmental services provided by buffered, unpolluted, free-
flowing creeks.
Flood Control and Drainage: Poor drainage and flooding within the Betim watershed is
the result of poor urban planning and water management, the unregulated occupation of
floodplain areas, deposition of garbage and solid waste, and deterioration of aquatic and
riparian environments, all of which have led to high levels and rates of silt deposition. The
project will address all of these factors to improve flood control and drainage through a
series of targeted and coordinated investments. The project will directly finance
resettlement of flood-prone settlements (which also tend to be among the poorest) thereby
reducing a source of sediment while simultaneously improving the quality of life for those
residents. The project will finance hydraulic improvements through the removal of trash
throughout the lengths of all urban creeks, silt build-up in constrained, urbanized reaches,
and solid waste through illegal and absent sewerage connections. Additionally, the project
will finance the construction of five flood retention basins - the management of which will
be linked to that of the Varzea das Flores Reservoir in the upper basin - so as to enable
improved water management within the watershed. Moreover, the project will address
environmental deterioration of in- and near-stream environments directly, through the
support of retaining un-urbanized creeks in their natural state, restoring wetland vegetation
along creeks, and creating a series of urban linear parks adjacent to streams, and indirectly,
through the promotion of environmental criteria in long-term planning and management
decisions, strengthening of environmental management capacity and environmental
education campaigns to highlight the importance of these ecosystems.
Urban Environmental Planning: The project will support the development of an urban
environmental plan as part of the city's Master Plan. This plan will emphasize the
improvement of environmental policies, regulation, and management capacity through
mechanisms emphasizing policy choices, administrative procedures and financing
10



Melhor cor voci% 7
instruments that promote sustainable environmental management and planning. This is
anticipated to include the updating of aspects such as urban planning, city and construction
codes to improve all environmental and stormwater-related issues. For example, new
development will be linked to mechanisms for protecting the city's natural and cultural
resources. Contemplated within the development of these instruments will be the
establishment of sustainable financing mechanisms to ensure their long-term maintenance.
The project is expected to support the creation of an environmental database including
legal and institutional components, infrastructure and potential pollution source cadastres,
monitoring data and evaluation results. Project design will also address potential needed
improvements in water resource management, such as identifying and resolving key gaps
in ongoing monitoring and regulations. Lastly, so as to promote sustainable governance,
the plan will emphasize the importance of transparency and public participation in all
decision-making, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
Urban Environmental Management: The project will directly improve the environmental
management of Betim's natural resources through support to the city's Secretariat of the
Environment. This support will emphasize technical capacity improvements related to the
Secretariat's execution of its licensing mandate. The project will contribute to additional
urban environmental management improvements through support to the strengthening of
water resources management and water quality monitoring. Specifically, the project's
support to the Paraopeba River Basin Committee, both financially and institutionally,
through modifications to state water resource policies, will result in improved water
quality. The project will strengthen the Committee's technical capacity by expanding its
geologic and geotechnical database and cadastre of water users and pollution discharge,
through developing decision models for water usage and discharge, and through mapping
land use and capability. This system will serve as a basis for the project's monitoring of
Betim River water quality. The project will also promote "greening" of the urban
environment through integration of environmental considerations in urban planning, as
described above. This support is intended to broaden the support for and management of
greenways and urban green spaces in future city development.
Biodiversity/Natural Habitats: The project is expected to result in improvements to the
aquatic and riparian biodiversity within the Betim area and downstream the Paraopeba
River. The project's emphasis on the maintenance of natural conditions in drainage
improvements, creation of urban parks, and restoration of aquatic ciliar vegetation along
streams will promote the restoration of habitat for wetland and non-wetland species alike.
By promoting the preservation of natural floodplains and drainage ways in the upper
watershed area, the project will promote the maintenance of existing aquatic and riparian
habitats. Through the improvement of water quality and removal of solid waste, the project
will result in direct improvements to aquatic and riparian habitats in Betim and the
downstream Paraopeba River. The creation of urban parks along streams and in other
urban areas will result in long-term biodiversity benefits to local plant and wildlife. And
the restoration of in-stream vegetation will yield direct biodiversity benefits to aquatic and
semi-aquatic species.



Beti
Melhor com voc
Negative Environmental Impacts:
The project will finance a series of infrastructure, including: 42km of interceptors and
secondary sewerage network; one sewerage treatment plant; 15km of macro drainage
improvements; 5 open-air, flood-retention basins; and 18km of secondary roads. The
construction of this infrastructure could result in some limited environmental impacts, that
would be mitigated through the implementation of a series of mitigation measures included
in the project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP) described below.
Noise, Air and Water Quality: Infrastructure construction would likely result in localized
short-term environmental impacts including dust and noise pollution, erosion. Potential air
and water quality impacts could result from the extraction and transport of dredge
sediments involved in drainage improvements. Additionally, the disposal of dredged
sediments could result in long-term water quality impacts if not well-managed. These
issues would be managed through a series of mitigation measures described below.
Biodiversity/Natural Habitats: The construction of project-related infrastructure could
yield localized impacts to riverine habitats through the short-term removal of riparian
vegetation. This riparian "mata ciliar" vegetation is protected under Brazilian national
law. Project activities to restore riverine vegetation (described in the EMP below) will
more than offset this impact.
Involuntary Resettlement: Implementation of project activities will result in the
resettlement of 820 families in urban flood-prone areas and involve the acquisition of 323
empty, privately owned plots. The project's Resettlement Plan, done in compliance with
the Bank's OP 4.12 and described below, outlines the steps that the project will take to
resettle or compensate those affected parties.
4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The EA includes a series of mitigation and enhancement measures designed to ensure the
project minimizes any negative impacts, and improves the positive ones. These measures,
together with a budget (in USD), timetable and institutional responsibilities constitute the
project's EMP, which is sumrnmarized in the following section. Many of the activities
included within the EMP are already mainstreamed within project design, and do not
require a separate document.
Natural Habitats Monitoring and Mitigation ($420,000 plus costs included in project
design): 'While the project is expected to result in significant positive impacts for
biodiversity and natural habitats, short-term impacts to riverine habitats will result from the
undertaking of drainage improvements. These impacts will be more than mitigated by
project interventions to rehabilitate Betim River tributaries through eradication and
treatment of pollution sources, resettlement of populations living within the floodplains,
creation of urban parks, and restoration of wetland vegetation along the project waterways.
Specific environmental mitigation relative to natural habitats include the construction of
the wastewater treatment plant to offset impacts related to the expansion of sewerage
collection, the creation and management of 30 ha of urban parks, and the restoration of
riparian vegetation along ALL creeks affected by the project. Additionally, the project will
ensure that the urban drainage program will emphasize the selection of alternatives that: (i)
maximize preservation, to the extent possible, of existing water courses and mata ciliar
12



Bet
Melhorn voci
vegetation; (ii) use adjacent spaces to create or augment linear parks to promote
environmental awareness of residents and to buffer urban impacts to streams; and (iii)
strengthen the protection of existing parks or protected areas to maximize the long-term
sustainability of water quality improvements. These activities will be the responsibility of
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the technical units.
Environmental Management System (Costs included in project design): The project's
environmental management system includes the development and oversight of social and
environmental procedures related to all project works. This will be the responsibility of the
PCU and the technical executing agencies (Secretary of Environment (SEMEIA) and
Secretary of Works and Housing).
Environmental Construction Manual (Costs included in the works design): The project
will ensure the development of guidelines and rules for all contractors that set forth the
environmental rules and procedures. These guidelines will be appended to all project
infrastructure-related contracts. The manual will include actions related to the
environmental management and supervision of works, the environmental requirements for
contractors, environmental planning rules for construction and oversight of works,
including activities to minimize and mitigate construction-related impacts. This will be the
responsibility of the PCU and contractors.
Social Communication Program       ($300,000): The project includes a Social
Communication Program that will be responsible for identifying and involving key
community stakeholders (including those directly and indirectly affected by the project) in
fundamental project activities, and undertaking a information dissemination campaign
about the project. This will be implemented by the UCP and technical executing agencies
(including SEMEIA and the Secretary of Work and Housing).
Environmental Education Program ($500,000): The project will implement an
environmental education program for Betim residents of all ages aimed at increasing their
awareness of the importance and vulnerability of natural resources for contributing to
biodiversity, public health, water quality and flood control functions. The program will
emphasize the role each person can play in protecting and improving the environmental
quality of the Betim urban area. This will be implemented by the UCP along with SEMEIA
and the Secretary of Education.
Resettlement Action Plan ($6,800,000): The project will resettle 820 families and
compensate 323 owners of undeveloped urban plots. The project has established a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) that offers two compensatory alternatives at no financial
cost to the family or owner: (i) replacement housing with basic services on a plot close to
their current location; or (ii) cash compensation based on a social index sufficient for the
purchase of replacement housing at the family's discretion, plus social compensation for
poor families to assist in the move for. Additionally, the project will provide technical
support to strengthen the social and legal municipal capacities so as to ensure
comprehensive juridical and social support is available for resettled families throughout the
entire resettlement process. The project's monitoring and evaluation component will also
track the success of resettlement and related institutional strengthening. These activities
will be implemented by the UCP and the Secretaries of Works and Housing, and Social
Assistance.
13



Be
Melhor corn voci A
Industrial and Non-Domestic Pollution Control ($500,000): The project will support
industrial and non-domestic pollution control through funding and overseeing the
following activities.
a. A cadastre of potentially polluting industries and businesses;
b. Revision of environmental laws governing those potentially polluting industries and
businesses;
c. Efficiency improvements for industrial environmental licensing;
d. Environmental training and guidelines to promote environmentally friendly and cost-
efficient technologies;
e. Joint monitoring of water quality including industrial effluents by the Paraopeba River
Basin Committee and FEAN;
f. Monitoring of industrial effluent discharge to the sewerage system by COPASA. These
results will be incorporated into the project's monitoring and evaluation system.
The oversight of these activities will be the responsibility of SEMELA.
Illegal Household Sewerage Connections: (Costs borne by COPASA): The project will
fund the 'Ca,a esgoto' program implemented by COPASA, which identifies illegal
domestic wastewater discharge. When illegal connections are identified, the homeowner
will be required to properly connect to the sewerage network. The work will be conducted
by COPASA, with the costs borne by the property owner (using a delayed payment plan)
or by the municipality, in the case where the property owner cannot afford it. Oversight of
these activities will be the responsibility of COPASA.
Dam Safety ($85,000): In accordance with the Bank's OP 4.37 policy, the EA evaluated
the operational and safety procedures for the Varzea das Flores Reservoir located in the
upper Betim River watershed. The project will ensure that the reservoir's operation will be
coordinated with the flood control management plans for the Betim watershed,
emphasizing harmonization of reservoir operation with that of the five flood-storage
reservoirs built through the project. These activities will be overseen by COPASA, the
state water company, who is responsible for the management of the Varzea das Flores
Reservoir and is represented within the PMU. These activities will be part of the works
annual operational manuals, which will be submitted to the PMU. Additionally, COPASA
will submit to the PIU annual reservoir inspection reports. Oversight of these activities
will be the responsibility of the Betim municipality and COPASA.
Flood-Retention Basin Operation and Safety Procedures ($60,000): The project
includes the development and funding of operational and safety procedures for each of the
five new flood-retention basins. These procedures will include rules for individual basins,
as well as rules for their joint operation. Technical and safety procedures for operating the
basins will be funded through Component Ia, while routine operation and safety
procedures will be established and implemented within the municipality administration
structure. These activities will be the responsibility of the PCU and the Secretary of Civil
Defense.
Dredge Transport and Disposal ($??): The project will include the removal, transport
and disposal of dredged sediments originating in the project watercourses. These materials
will be handed in accordance with rules and procedures, consistent with licensing
requirements, established in a dredge materials manual. This manual will be developed as
part of the project. These activities will be under the oversight of the PCU and SEMEIA.
14



Betim
Melhor cor voce A
Environmental Institutional Strengthening  ($1,160,000): The project supports a
number of activities aimed at strengthening environment-related municipal institutional
capacity. These activities include: (i) the development of a municipal urban environmental
plan to integrate environmental considerations in the new municipal urban plan; (ii)
development and implementation of management plans for all parks created through the
project; (iii) elaboration of technical manuals and environmental procedures for all new
development within the city, including all flood control and water management
development; and (iv) the implementation of an Environmental Database. These activities
are the responsibility of SEMEIA.
Environmental Monitoring ($620,000); As environmental monitoring is critical to the
success of a number of project activities, the project includes environmental monitoring
within several project components. Through Component I.3.a., the project will monitor the
project's impact on the water quality in the Betim watershed. Additionally, several of the
project indicators included in the project's monitoring and evaluation element (Component
1.4) are environmental due to the project's goals of promoting sustainable development
and improved environmental quality. These activities are the responsibility of the PIU and
SEMEIA.
15



