Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB216 
Project Name 
Integrated Municipal Project - Betim Mun 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P082328 
Borrower(s) 
MUNICIPALITY OF BETIM 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Municipality of Betim 
Rua Professor Osvaldo Franco, 55 
Minas Gerais 
Brazil 
32510-50 
Tel: 55 31    35 39 24 30 
 
gabpref@gov.mg.br 
 
Planning Secretariat 
Rua Professor Osvaldo Franco 55 
Minas Gerais 
Brazil 
32510-50 
Tel: 55 31  35 39 24 30 
 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 30, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 31, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The short-term strategy  of the Lula government, centered on maintaining fiscal discipline while swiftly addressing 
the reduction of extreme poverty and inequality, is having results. Some indicators are the dramatic decrease in 
country risk factors, lowered inflation, and improved business conditions to foster economic growth and 
employment. At the same time, the PT-led government has a long-term commitment to achieving sustainable 
development objectives: gaining approval for long overdue reforms in the pension and tax systems, creating a 
framework for universal access to social and infrastructure services, and reversing acute degradation of 
environmental quality. In line with its fiscal discipline, the Federal Government has asked the Bank to provide direct 
lending assistance to credit-worthy municipalities since they are responsible for providing most local services and 
for enforcing environmental quality standards.   
 
In most Brazilian cities, coverage indicators for local services are above 85 percent, but there are still large 
differences in service quality across income levels and geographical regions. It is estimated that between 30 to 50 
percent of the poorest segments of the urban population lack adequate access to services of good quality or have no 
services at all. On average less than 15 percent of wastewater is treated, and about 70 percent of solid waste 
collected is dumped without adequate sanitary and environmental controls. This situation translates into persistently 
bad health indicators in the poorest 70 percent of the population and acute environmental degradation in the large 
majority of urban areas. Integrated approaches to the interrelated problems of urban poverty and environmental 
degradation have enhanced the benefits of a wide range of development interventions. These include a social 
consensus on policies for urban development and municipal development, rehabilitation of slums and degraded 
areas, efficient expansion and operation of local services, and a comprehensive framework for water and land 
management.  
 
Page  2
 
 
2. Objectives 
1.  Project development objective and key indicators 
The development objective is to assist the municipality of Betim in achieving sustainable socio-environmental 
development, reducing poverty and enhancing the city’s quality of life. Reaching this objective will require 
integrated, well targeted investments in infrastructure and social services in the city’s poorest and most 
environmentally degraded region - the Betim River basin - coupled with broader efforts to improve municipal 
governance, regulatory policy, and institutional strengthening. 
 
Key PDO outcome indicators: 
Measures of the perception of quality of life in project area  
\01fi
Perception of access to quality of basic urban and environmental services delivered, changes in property values, 
and exposure to flooding damage. 
\01fi
Perception of quality of life for families resettled from risk-prone areas. 
 
Measures of quality of life at municipal level 
\01fi
Benchmarking with municipalities in the BHMR using the Indicator of Environmental Health (ISA)
1
. 
\01fi
Benchmarking with municipalities in the BHMR and comparable municipalities in MG using the Indicator of 
Human Development (IDH)
2
. 
Measures of effectiveness 
\01fi
Betim River water quality improved, measured by: 
\01\02
Public disclosure of key water quality indicators in Betim River and main tributaries; 
\01\02
Improved quality of Betim River to suitable for water supply (IQA class 3). 
\01fi
Improved community perception of the river’s odor and environmental degradation levels. 
\01fi
Reduced damage and disruption of economic flows due to reduced urban flooding. 
\01fi
Increased use of parks and recreational areas in the project area.  
 
Measure of municipal finance health 
\01fi
Personal costs control 
 
3. Project 
Description 
 
Components Indicative 
Costs 
(US$M) 
% of 
Total 
Bank-
financing 
(US$M) 
% Bank-
financing 
1. Municipal Policies and Institutional 
Capacity Strengthening 
2. Social Inclusion 
3. Municipal Infrastructure and Urban 
Environmental Rehabilitation 
4. Project Management 
 
(Physical Contingencies) 
(Price Contingencies)
 
2.1
6.8
34.7
3.0
1.7 
0.9
4
13
70
6
1.7 
 
2.1 
18.1 
 
2.1 
80
30
51
70
                                                          
 
1
 ISA is a monitoring tool created by the Polytechnic Institute of the University of São Paulo to measure 
environmental health quality. The Municipality of Belo Horizonte adopted this tool to monitor the results of the 
DRENUS project financed by the IDB. Among the indicators are: water resources quality, solid waste services, 
sewerage and water supply coverage, water borne diseases control.  
2
 Current Betim’s IDH ranking is substantially low (1187
th
 among Brazil) due to the city low environmental health 
quality. 
Page  3
 
 
Total project costs 
49.2  23.7  48 
Front-end fee 
0.2
 0.2 
 
Total financing required 
49.4
 24.0 
 
 
Component I: Municipal Policies and Institutional Capacity Strengthening  
Component I will focus on strengthening policies, finance and management capacities of the Betim Municipality in 
key thematic areas.  
 
1.
 Governance and planning.
 The project includes assistance in updating and implementing the long-term Municipal 
Strategic Development Plan. The project will help Betim apply state-of-the-art approaches, including: policy 
analysis of options and cost implications, proposals for alternative development goals related to fiscal performance, 
methodologies for stakeholder impact evaluation and consensus building, indicators and evaluation criteria for 
impact of policy actions, and detailed monitoring of financial performance using methodologies developed during 
project preparation. The plan will be drawn up in a participatory framework, with consultation of stakeholders 
including representatives of those without a voice, like children, the elderly, and the destitute. Specifically, the 
project will help update the Urban Master Plan and review major institutional, financial, and territorial planning 
issues to be discussed in the context of the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area. Specific policy papers will be prepared 
to assist policy makers on the options and implications of alternative scenarios. They include specific analysis on 
public expenditure reviews; selected fiscal and financial management issues; property tax policy and land 
regulation; cadastre and tax collection; territorial management and economic instruments for environmental 
management; policies to address regularization of illegal settlements; cost-effective programs to foster access to land 
and basic services; social development, including monitoring of SUS cadastre and applications for broader policy 
formulation; environmental management, including scope for economic instruments and payment for environmental 
services; consensus building for policy making; studies related to improved transparency; accountability; and 
information-sharing mechanisms in selected areas of municipal government. 
 
2.
 Local services
: The project will help strengthen municipal policies, regulation, and management capacity for a 
broad set of local basic services. To reach this objective, the project will undertake  
a. 
An assessment of policies and management capacity: 
Policy, regulation and management arrangements will be 
assessed to assist Betim in establishing an appropriate institutional and legal framework for efficient delivery of 
local services. This assessment will clarify the constitutional division of responsibility for local service delivery 
between central and sub-national governments; discuss the metropolitan region’s impact on local services; foster 
dialogue on improving efficiency with surrounding municipalities; identify alternative delivery models; and measure 
efficiency of current service delivery models and their associated costs, subsidies, and tariffs.  
b. 
An information system for institutional and public control.
 This system will help strengthen the Municipality’s 
capacity to fulfill regulatory responsibility for local service provision and will enhance governance by giving public 
access to information on expected and achieved quality of local services. To develop this system the project will 
assess current quality of services, determine their contractually required quality, promote user consultations, and 
establish service benchmarks.  
c.
 A basic infrastructure cadastre
. A cadastre of basic infrastructure will complement the existing municipal 
geographically referenced management database. The additional information, mainly on macro and micro drainage, 
will be used in developing a drainage management plan. This plan is in turn a key element of the Urban Master Plan 
and the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
3.
 Environmental Management. 
The project will strengthen the Municipal Secretariat of Environment’s institutional 
and technical capacity through:  
a. 
Environmental policies, regulation, and management
. A Municipal Environmental Management Plan will be 
developed in line with the Municipal Strategic Development Plan, addressing issues such as policy instruments; 
financing mechanisms; administrative procedures; an environmental database; transparency and public participation; 
and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. In addition, this activity will aim to strengthen the Secretariat of 
Environment’s technical capacity to execute its licensing mandate. 
b. 
Water resources management and water quality monitoring
. The project will help Betim strengthen Minas 
Gerais’ water resources policies and institutional system through the Paraopeba River Basin Committee, which is 
Page  4
 
 
responsible for monitoring and enforcing water quality standards for the Betim River. The project will complement 
the Committee’s technical capacity through specific assistance to update its geologic and geo-technical database; 
expand its cadastre of water users and pollution discharge; develop decision models for water withdrawal and 
discharge, and map land use and aptitude. This system will be the basis for project tools to monitor water quality.  
c. 
Environmental Education Program
: An environmental education program will be developed and implemented to 
increase the population’s awareness of local environmental vulnerabilities and of measures to safeguard that 
environment.  
 
Component II: Social Inclusion  
Component II will finance short- and long-term initiatives to improve living conditions for poor and vulnerable 
families. It will also strengthen municipal social policies and programs. It will 
1. 
Resettle families living in risk-prone areas
. A comprehensive resettlement program aims to improve the living 
conditions of 820 poor families now living on floodplains. The program provides for a socially sound compensatory 
policy; resettlement in nearby housing with basic infrastructure in an established community; legal and social 
assistance during the resettlement process; and support for income generation. Annex 11 summarizes the 
resettlement program.   
2.
 Strengthen municipal social policies and programs
. The project will strengthen SEMAS’s 
policies and programs by evaluating the impact of its municipal social assistance programs on 
the poor. It will also evaluate the federal social safety net programs that make cash transfers to 
reduce poverty in Betim (
Bolsa Familia
). Specifically, it will evaluate their targeting criteria, 
gaps in coverage, duplication with municipal cash transfer programs, allocation transparency and 
consistency, local management, and database efficiency. 
 
Component III: Municipal Infrastructure and Urban Environmental Rehabilitation 
Component III will invest in environmental improvement of the Betim River basin by  
1. Expanding basic infrastructure, including one 500 l/s sewage treatment plant; 7,500 sewerage connections; 15 km 
of macro-drainage; 18 km of secondary roads improvements; 5 open-air flood regularization basins.  
2. Protecting water by creating three urban parks (totaling 30 ha) and restoring riparian 
vegetation. 
 
Component IV: Project Management
  
Component IV will establish a project management unit (PMU) responsible for managing and 
monitoring project implementation and providing for civil works supervision and project 
auditing.   
 
4. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
25 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
24 
 
Total 49 
 
5. Implementation 
The project does not entail partnership arrangements with other international financing agencies. 
 
The project will be executed by the Municipality of Betim. The Betim Planning Secretariat will 
be responsible for coordination, through a PMU comprising an executive coordinator and three 
sectoral coordinators for procurement, finance, and institutional strengthening. These 
coordinators will be municipal officials seconded to the PMU. To reinforce this body, the project 
will hire a team of consultants experienced in Bank-financed operations. The Municipality chose 
this option because training its own officials in Bank procedures would be a prolonged process 
that would run the risk of falling short of the required standard and would serve no useful 
Page  5
 
 
purpose for the Municipality after the conclusion of the project. The team of consultants includes 
an executive coordinator who will mitigate changes in the PMU’s composition when the 
municipal administration changes. The PMU will coordinate the activities of the four project 
executing agencies: Environment, Social Assistance, Housing, and Civil Works and Public 
Services, as shown in Annex 6.   
 
Existing contracts. 
The Municipality’s ongoing civil works contracts amounting to some US$ 
14M are part of the project intervention. Both the procurement process (following Law 8,666) 
and the civil works execution have been assessed by the Bank. The Bank project team counts 
these contract amounts as project counterpart funds.  
 
Municipality implementation capacity
. Assessments of procurement and financial management 
found no major capacity constraints. Assessment of procurement capacity risk states that the 
Municipality appears to be experienced in the implementation of projects with similar features to 
those of the project and that it is consistent in the application of rules for procurement for goods 
and services adhering to Law 8.666/93. The risk associated with the lack of experience in dealing 
with Bank-financed procurement will be removed by training and support from a full–time 
procurement specialist.   
 
6. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
A comprehensive Environmental Assessment was made, including a Resettlement Action Plan, according to the 
Bank Safeguard Policies (see Annex 11). This project aims to assist the municipality in achieving sustainable socio-
environmental development, reducing poverty, improving the urban environment, and enhancing the quality of life 
for city residents. The EA evaluates existing conditions, identifies potential direct and indirect environmental 
impact, and proposes measures to mitigate negative impact and to enhance positive impact. The Environmental 
Management Plan summarizes these measures along with their associated costs, responsibilities, and schedule. A 
public consultation was carried out and documented following the disclosure procedures recommended by the 
Bank’s environmental policy.
 
 
 
As part of its objectives and design, the project has a strong environmental emphasis. It will strengthen the 
institutional capacity of SEMEIA, including the capacity of the Paroeba regional river basin committee. The project 
will review environmental policies and regulation to scale up Betim’s capacity to respond to environmental needs. 
By drawing up an updated and comprehensive environmental management plan in correlation with the municipal 
master plan, the project will improve natural resource management. The project investments will strongly reduce or 
mitigate social and environmental vulnerabilities, including natural disasters such as flooding and landslides. It will 
also protect public health by preventing contact with untreated wastewater.  
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes 
No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
 
 
 
Safeguard screening category: S2 
Environmental category: ‘A’ 
  
The Natural Habitats Policy is triggered because the project will rehabilitate and protect water resources, including 
degraded riparian vegetation under the category of natural habitats. The project will rehabilitate degraded riparian 
vegetation and extend the area with appropriate vegetation, including urban parks that will also protect vulnerable 
environmental sites.  
 
The Dams Safety Policy is triggered because a reservoir to supply water to the metropolitan region of Belo 
Horizonte lies within the Municipality of Betim, but outside the project intervention area. Most of the reservoir lies 
in a neighboring municipality, and the use of its water is managed by COPASA. The two municipalities have master 
plans and land use laws to protect this reservoir. The management body includes representatives of the two 
municipalities, and operational procedures including monthly decision meetings. The EA results and recommended 
measures are incorporated in the EMP and into project components. Several consultations were carried out in 
preparing the project. In addition, as part of the environmental licensing process, the environmental secretary and the 
municipal environmental council consulted several times with civil society organizations. These consultations were 
covered by newspapers and radio, project documentation was made available at the municipal environmental 
secretariat, and safeguard studies were made available at the InfoShop on January 30, 2004. 
 
7. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
Project ‘Carta Consulta’ document 
SEAIN approvals to the Project Carta Consulta 
SEAIN approvals to a PHRD funds request 
Minister of Planning letter approving the Project preparation by the World Bank 
Municipality of Betim decree creating the Project Preparation Unit 
Municipal Council of Betim authorization for the Municipality of Betim contracting a loan with the World Bank 
Signed agreement between COPASA and the Municipality of Betim for transferring funds for the Project 
implementation 
Financial Management Report sent by Claudio Mittelstaedt, financial management specialist LCOAA 
Procurement Capacity Assessment Report sent by Emilio Rodriguez, Procurement Specialist LCOPR 
Project Environmental Assessement 
Project Resettlement Action Plan 
Project detailed implementation timetable 
Procurement table 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Paula Dias Pini 
Title: Senior Social Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-7842 
Fax: (202) 676 93 73 
Email: Ppini@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
