                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001122



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-72460)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24.0 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                          MUNICIPALITY OF BETIM

    WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                     FOR AN

        INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL PROJECT ­ BETIM MUNICIPALITY


                                 June 3, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 11, 2010)

                           Currency Unit = Reais (R$)
                             R$ 1.80 = US$ 1.00
                              US$ 0.55 = R$ 1.00

                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 to December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANA         National Water Agency
BACEN       Brazilian Central Bank
CAE         Country Assistance Evaluation
CAIXA       Federal Government Financing Agency
COPASA      State Water and Sanitation Company
FEAM        Minas Gerais Environmental Agency
FGTS        Funds collected on regular employment
ICMS        State tax on the circulation of goods
IGAM        Minas Gerais Water Institute
ISS         Municipal Service Tax
FRL         Fiscal Responsibility Law
PHRD        Japanese grant for Project preparation
PMB         Municipality of Betim
PMSS        Bank-financed Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Program
RMBH        Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte
SEAIN       Federal Foreign Secretariat
SEMAS       Municipal Social Assistance Secretariat
SEMEIA      Municipal Environmental Secretariat
SOMMA       Local Development Fund managed by the Minas Gerais State Bank
STN         National Treasury
SUS         Federal Centralized Health System




     Vice President: Pamela Cox
   Country Director: Makhtar Diop
    Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader: Paula Pini
  ICR Team Leader: Bernice van Bronkhorst
                                FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL


         INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL PROJECT ­ BETIM MUNICIPALITY




                                                         CONTENTS


Data Sheet

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. ii
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs..................................................................... vi
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................. 12
3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 24


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................... 38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................ 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................... 45
MAP ........................................................................................................................... 46
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Integrated Municipal
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:             Project - Betim
                                                                          Municipality
Project ID:             P082328                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72460
ICR Date:               06/23/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MUNICIPALITY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BETIM
Original Total
                        USD 24.1M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 24.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 24.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipality of Betim
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/10/2003     Effectiveness:                               04/12/2005
Appraisal:            02/27/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/01/2004     Mid-term Review:           10/25/2007        11/21/2006
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       15                  10
Other social services                                                  30                  30
Sewerage                                                               40                  45
Sub-national government administration                                 15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   29                  29
Environmental policies and institutions                                14                  14
Other urban development                                                14                  14
Pollution management and environmental health                          29                  29
Social safety nets                                                     14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                          Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Guang Zhe Chen                        Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader:       Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst             Paula Dias Pini
ICR Team Leader:           Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst
ICR Primary Author:        Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to assist the municipality of Betim in: (a) promoting
sustainable socio-environmental development, (b) reducing inequality and (c) enhancing


                                                   ii
the city#s quality of life through integrated investments in urban environment
infrastructure and social services coupled with broader efforts to improve municipal
governance, regulatory policy, and institutional strengthening.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Improved access to basic urban and environmental services.
                                             Water coverage:                   Water coverage:
                                             100%                              98%
                  Water coverage: 94%
                                             Sewage coverage:                  Sewage coverage:
Value             Sewage coverage: 68%
                                             95%                               72.5%
quantitative or                                                   None
Qualitative)      # families resettled from
                                             # families resettled              # families resettled
                  risk-prone areas: 0
                                             from risk-prone                   from risk-prone
                                             areas: 860                        areas: 887
Date achieved     05/21/2004                  11/24/2009          11/24/2009   06/10/2010
Comments          Water coverage: 66%; Sewage coverage: 16%; # families resettled from risk-
(incl. %          prone areas: 100%. The number of household connections increased
achievement)      significantly (6500 new connections out of anticipated 7500 at appraisal).
Indicator 2 :     Improved quality of the Betim river (IQA class 3)
Value                                                 70
                         25
quantitative or                              (GOOD:                            12
                  (BAD: 25<IQA<50)
Qualitative)                                 70<IQA<90)
Date achieved     05/21/2004                 11/24/2009                        11/24/2009
Comments          The value of IQA is partially dependent on the wastewater treatment plant being
(incl. %          fully operational and will be achieved in the months following the full
achievement)      operational functioning (May 2010) of the plant.
Indicator 3 :     Benchmarking the Social Environment Index (ISA) in Betim.
Value
quantitative or   61.3                      91.5                               62.06
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/21/2006                11/24/2009                         11/24/2009
Comments
                  ISA has been elaborated according to the State policy for sanitation. The present
(incl. %
                  value of IS is strongly influenced by the water quality indicator.
achievement)




                                                   iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                  I.1. Betim's Master Plan updated based on Municipal Strategic Development
Indicator 1 :
                  Plan.
Value
(quantitative     0                          updated                               updated
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/21/2004                 11/24/2009                            11/24/2009
Comments
                  Fully achieved: Plan was updated and new Municipal Strategic Development
(incl. %
                  Plan was created.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     I.2. Information system on basic services available to public.
Value
(quantitative     0                          Made available      None              Made available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/21/2008                 11/24/2009          11/24/2009        12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved: Information system was created and made public.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     I.3. Policies and regulation for municipal basic services provision assessed.
Value                                                                            Basic services
(quantitative     0                           Assessed           none            policy & regulatory
or Qualitative)                                                                  framework in place
Date achieved     05/21/2004                  11/24/2009         11/24/2009      11/24/2009
Comments
                  Fully achieved: Assessment was made and new basic services policy &
(incl. %
                  regulatory framework in place.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     I.4. Environmental policies and regulation assessed.
Value                                                                              Environmental
(quantitative     0                          Assessed            N/A               policy & regulatory
or Qualitative)                                                                    framework in place.
Date achieved     05/21/2004                 11/24/2009          11/24/2009        11/24/2009
Comments
                  Fully achieved: Assessment was made and new environmental policy &
(incl. %
                  regulatory framework in place.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     II.1. Number of families in risk-prone areas resettled.
                                                                           887 households
Value                                                                      living in risk-prone
(quantitative   0                       860                  N/A           areas resettled and
or Qualitative)                                                            323 land owners
                                                                           were compensated
Date achieved 05/21/2004                11/24/2009           11/24/2009    11/24/2009
Comments      Fully met # more families in fact were resettled and/or compensated than in
(incl. %      original target value.



                                                  iv
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     II.2. Number of regional SEMAS physically improved.
Value                                                                           6 SEMAS buildings
                  SEMAS buildings
(quantitative                            6                                      were rehabilitated
                  requiring improvements
or Qualitative)                                                                 and improved
Date achieved     05/21/2004                12/30/2008                          12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Fully met
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     II.3. Information system on social services available to the public.
Value                                                                            Information system
                                            Created and
(quantitative     0                                             N/A              is available to the
                                            available
or Qualitative)                                                                  public.
Date achieved     05/21/2004                11/24/2009           11/24/2009      12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     II.4. Impact of social programs assessed.
                                                                                Studies were
Value
                                            Assessment of                       carried out and
(quantitative   0                                               N/A
                                            impact                              impact was
or Qualitative)
                                                                                assessed
Date achieved 05/21/2004                  11/24/2009          11/24/2009        11/24/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 9 : III.1. Number of Betim tributaries environmentally rehabilitated.
                                                                             9 tributaries were
Value
                                                                             rehabilitated and 2
(quantitative   0                         11
                                                                             are still under
or Qualitative)
                                                                             implementation
Date achieved 05/21/2004                  11/24/2009                         11/24/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Over 80% achieved. Will be 100% achieved by end 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : III.2. Hectares of parks and green areas open to public.
Value
(quantitative   0                         30 ha               N/A            20 ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/21/2004                  11/24/2009          11/24/2009     11/24/2009
Comments        20 ha areas of parks & green areas open to public within Betim River basin:
(incl. %        66.7% . The completion of the urban parks is included in a large urban program
achievement) financed by PAC and expected to be concluded in 2011.




                                                  v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                            IP            Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    12/16/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  0.00
  2    04/27/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  0.12
  3    12/28/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  1.63
  4    09/21/2006       Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory              9.56
  5    04/16/2007       Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory            17.29
  6    10/26/2007       Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory            21.71
  7    05/28/2008       Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory            21.71
  8    12/12/2008       Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory            23.27
  9    03/04/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                23.27
 10    05/09/2009   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                23.27


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Country and Sector Background

1.       Brazil is a largely urban country (85% of its population lives in cities).
Consequently, cities concentrate a high proportion of the poor and there are still large
differences in service quality across income levels and geographical regions. It is
estimated that between 30 and 50 percent of the poorest segments of the urban population
lacks access to services of good quality or have no services at all. On average less than 15
percent of wastewater is treated, and about 70 percent of collected solid waste is dumped
without adequate sanitary and environmental controls. Brazil has achieved sound macro-
economic results over the last decade. At the same time the Federal Government has
prioritized reducing poverty and social inequalities, as well as promoting environmentally
sustainable development by creating a framework for universal access to social and
infrastructure services, and reversing acute environmental degradation. Although
investments have increased substantially in recent years through programs such as PAC
(Programa de Aceleracao do Crescimento), a huge financing gap persists. At the same
time, a number of municipalities became creditworthy and have taken the initiative of
seeking long term financing for capital investments to fill this gap.

2.      Within this context, the Municipality of Betim requested assistance from the Bank
in three areas found to be particularly critical at the Project outset: i) improving access to
basic services and reducing vulnerability to floods; ii) improving access to and quality of
social programs; and iii) strengthening managerial and institutional capacity for
integrated urban operations. Betim was the pilot for what evolved into a Bank strategy of
direct and pooled lending to municipalities, and also provided inputs to a broad and
integrated municipal strategy for poverty-quality of life-basic service provision and
environment-focused investments.
                                         Box 1: BETIM

Betim is an industrial, medium-sized city (400,000 inhabitants) in the metropolitan region of
Belo Horizonte. It is characterized by fast, unplanned growth (6.5 percent a year between 1991-
2000); high social inequality (29 percent of the population below the poverty line); and informal
settlements, concentrated in floodplains or on steep slopes. These settlements have inadequate
sanitation services (68% of the population of Betim had access to sewage services, and only 5%
of wastewater was treated at the time of Project preparation), and are largely responsible for the
low quality of river water. Betim is strategically located with regard to the regional hydrological
system, as the Betim river is a tributary of an important regional river ­ the Paraopeba ­ which,
in turn, is a tributary of one of the main rivers in Brazil, the São Francisco. It also shares with
the neighboring municipality of Contagem the reservoir Varzea das Flores, which provides 20
percent of the water supply of the metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte.

Betim has successfully attracted large industrial investments, but has failed so far in attracting
high income residents and a related network of services. Betim allocates significant resources to
social services (64 percent of the municipal budget; 20 percent of the population receives a cash
transfer from poverty reduction programs). Betim has substantial net tax revenue coming from
international companies, as well as from their associated cluster of industries and services,
located in the city. The municipality also has a sound governance track-record.
                                                7
                                   Box 2. The Role of COPASA ­

One key and innovative aspect of the Project was that its design took into account the agreement
reached between the municipality and the water and sanitation services provider, COPASA, as part of
a 25 year-concession renewal. Betim negotiated a twofold investment program: investments in
sanitation for achieving 100% of wastewater collection and treatment until 2020; and additional
investments, especially in drainage, which - although exclusively a municipal responsibility - are also
needed to ensure the effectiveness of of the sanitation investments. A large part of this investment
program provided by COPASA and municipal resources constituted the Project counterpart funds.
Another relevant innovative aspect of the Project is the financial flow of funds associated with this
framework. The funds provided by COPASA were transferred by the company to the municipal
government, which was in turn responsible for all procurement.

A critical aspect that led the municipality and COPASA to seek external financing for the Project was
the judicial action issued by the Public Attorney Ministry demanding improvements in the quality of
the Betim River. This judicial action imposes high fees on COPASA for non-compliance within the
time frame agreed. The company has an entire legal department dedicated to this judicial action.




   1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

   3.      The original PDO was to assist the municipality of Betim in: (a) promoting
   sustainable socio-environmental development, (b) reducing inequality, and (c) enhancing
   the city's quality of life through integrated investments in urban environment
   infrastructure and social services coupled with broader efforts to improve municipal
   governance, regulatory policy, and institutional strengthening.

   The PDO was to be measured by the following key indicators:

   Promote sustainable socio-environmental development
   · Improved quality of Betim River (IQA class 3)

   Reduce inequality
   · Access to urban environmental services
   · Effectiveness of social policies assessed
   · # of families resettled from risk-prone areas

   Enhance the quality of life at the municipal level
   · Benchmarking with municipalities in the Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte
     using the indicator of Environmental Health (ISA)


   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

   4.     There were no revisions to the Project development objectives. In retrospect the key
   outcome indicators selected were not the most appropriate given the problems of measuring
   improved quality of water shortly after completion of the works as well as attribution of pollution


                                                   8
as there may exist other and/or new potential sources of pollution of the Betim River that are not
under control of the Project.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

5.     The main Project beneficiaries are the 371,000 inhabitants (270,000 at the time of
appraisal) of the Betim River basin, where the physical interventions of the Project are
concentrated. These represent approximately 80% of the population of Betim. The entire
population of Betim has also indirectly benefited from the Project through the overall
improvement of the environment, capacity strengthening of the municipal government,
and the municipal social policies and programs. Approximately 3,000 properties that
frequently suffered from floods also benefited from drainage and flood control
interventions.

1.5 Original Components

6.    To achieve the objective described above, the Project included the following
components:

7.      Component 1: Municipal Policies and Institutional Capacity Strengthening (US$
2.1M). This component focuses on strengthening policies, finance and management
capacities of the Betim Municipality in key thematic areas:

1.1. Governance and Planning:
    a) Preparation of a Municipal Strategic Development Plan
    b) Update the Urban Master Plan
    c) Review of major institutional, financial, and territorial planning issues in the
       context of the metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte.

1.2. Local Service Provision: aimed at strengthening municipal policies, regulation, and
     management capacity for a broad range of local basic services, through:
     a) An assessment of policies and management capacity
     b) The creation of an information system for institutional and public control
     c) The creation of a basic infrastructure cadastre

1.3. Environmental management: aimed at strengthening the Municipal Secretariat of
     Environment through:
     a) Environmental policies, regulation and management: (i) development of a
        Municipal Environmental and (ii) strengthening the Municipal Secretariat of
        Environment´s capacity for environmental licensing.
     b) Water resources management and water quality monitoring; Monitoring the
        quality of industrial effluent discharge into water resources bodies
     c) Environmental Education Program




                                                9
8.      Component 2: Social Inclusion (US$ 6.8M). This component finances specific
interventions to improve living conditions of poor and vulnerable groups and
strengthening municipal social policies and programs, through:

2.1. Resettle families living in risk-prone areas

2.2. Support for physical improvements in poor communities

2.3. Strengthen municipal social policies and programs through three lines of action:
(a) Studies and institutional strengthening of the Municipal Social Assistance Secretariat
(SEMAS)
(b) Physical improvement of SEMAS regional equipment
(c) Evaluation of the anti-poverty, federal cash transfer program Bolsa Família

9.      Component 3: Municipal Infrastructure and Urban Environmental Rehabilitation
(US$ 35.1M). This component supports the environmental rehabilitation of the Betim
River basin and two of its tributaries (Areias and Imbiruçu streams) and the improvement
of living conditions of its inhabitants through:

3.1. Implementing and expanding basic urban environmental infrastructure, including: (i)
one 500 l/s sewage treatment plant, (ii) 7,500 sewage connections, (iii) 15 km of macro-
drainage, (iv) 18 km of secondary roads improvements, and (v) 5 open-air flood
regularization basins.

3.2. Improving the protection of water resources through the creation of three urban
parks (totaling 30 ha) and restoring riparian vegetation.

10.     Component 4: Project Management (US$ 3M). This component includes the
creation of a Project management unit (UGP) responsible for managing and monitoring
Project implementation, coordinating civil works supervision, and Project auditing.


1.6 Revised Components

11.    Components have not been revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

12.    A) Financing gap

As with most Projects in Brazil prepared and appraised around this time, the Project
faced a financing gap due to the significant devaluation of the dollar. When the Project
was negotiated in May 2004 the exchange rate was US$ 1 = R$ 3.21, while the exchange
rate during most of the four years of Project execution was US$ 1 = R$ 1.60. Several
other factors such as the increased costs of civil construction and expanding the scope of
the treatment plant also contributed to the need for additional Project funding (see
below). Various alternatives for additional funding were explored, including the
                                             10
possibility of Additional Financing. In the end, the municipality tripled counterpart
funding, succeeding in leveraging and providing all of the needed funds to cover the
financing gap, without the need for further funding from the Bank1.


Project Costs at Appraisal and Closing in US$ Million
  Currency         IBRD             PMB              COPASA                           Total
  Appraisal        24.075           13.340           12.000                           49.415
  Closing          24.075           39.504           32.120                           95.699

13.        Factors contributing to increased costs are listed below:

· Devaluation of the US Dollar versus the Real.
· Increase of 30% in costs of civil works - largely associated with increased global
  demand for cement and steel.
· Adjustments made in the detailed engineering designs for the works, which were more
  accurate than the basic engineering designs that supported the Project cost estimates.
  Additional geological drills and updated topographic and hydrological studies were
  undertaken for the detailed engineering designs which indicated the need for change in
  technical parameters and works extension.
· Change in the technical specifications of the wastewater treatment plant to
  accommodate a future duplication associated with Projected longer term population
  increases ­ doubling the capacity of the planned plant and increasing costs by 81
  percent.

14. Some of the additional funds leveraged came from the Brazilian National Water
Agency (ANA) to finance the wastewater treatment plant, through the PRODES program
- and output-based program which rewards results in reducing pollution loads discharged
into rivers. The Project was selected to receive this award by ANA in 2008. The award
constitutes a grant of approximately half of the cost of the plant (US$10 million), which
is in a special account created by COPASA and the municipality and can be progressively
withdrawn once the agreed results in water quality improvements have been achieved.

15.     Due to the overall changes in resources needed (and available), funds were
significantly reallocated and/or increased among components. It is important to note that
while significantly reduced in value, all activities under component one were completed
as planned, many with resources from the various Secretariats' own budgets. Component
three (works) increased significantly as explained above and Project Management costs
almost doubled as the overall Project doubled in size.

· Component 1 from R$ 4.2 million to R$ 1.3 million
· Component 2 from R$ 13.5 million to R$ 14.3 million

1
    During the period of 2003-2008 total municipal revenue increased substantially.


                                                      11
· Component 3 from R$ 68.3 million to R$ 104.7 million
· Component 4 from R$ 6 million to R$ 11.3 million

16.    B) Changes in Implementation Arrangements

There were no significant changes in implementation arrangements.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.      Quality at entry of Project design is rated moderately satisfactory. The overall
design was satisfactory as it was based on a addressing the various challenges facing the
municipality, integrating interventions at different levels, and anchored around the
development of a new municipal strategic development plan. This was accompanied by
institutional strengthening activities. Overall this design would lay the groundwork for
more than just the original Bank financing for improved environmental quality and
municipal service delivery. The one area where the design was inadequate was in the
Project's results framework and the overly ambitious PDO indicators and targets (see
discussion below and in section 2.3). Lastly, given the technical scope of the works the
original cost estimates were too low, even taking into account the exchange rate
fluctuations. Therefore the overall rating for Quality at Entry is moderately satisfactory.

19.    The following factors contributed to thequality of the Project at entry:

· Interaction and collaboration between the various parties: the quality of Project
  design as well as the search for adequate technical solutions to cost increases in the
  engineering designs were improved by the intense, productive interaction between the
  staff of the municipality, COPASA, and Bank staff and consultants.
· Counterpart funds from COPASA and water and sanitation concession contract:
  agreements between COPASA and the PMB were critical to guarantee counterpart
  funding for the Bank loan, as well as the acceptance by the Bank of a large works
  contract which was already underway as part of counterpart funds.
· Advanced key bidding processes: prior to effectiveness, the PMB advanced key
  bidding processes, covering up to 60% - 75% of the loan and created specific Bidding
  Committees for the Project.
· Few and large contracts: The Project was designed to include few and large
  consultant and civil works contracts, which allowed for a more efficient use of the
  PGU's technical staff's time.

2.2 Implementation

20.     Overall, this is a successful Project. The implementation period, from
effectiveness (April 2005) to closing (June 2009) was only 4 years, a short period for a
Project of this type. During this period all of the infrastructure works were fully designed

                                            12
bid and initiated (with the major wastewater treatment work completed by May 2010 ­
after Project closing), roads were built, dams and flood control systems were constructed,
sewerage systems were completed. In addition, parks along the Betim River and its
tributaries were developed and the Project practically changed the entire city.
Importantly, significant strategic changes and institutional strengthening took place
improving social and environmental service delivery to the poor.. Some relevant issues
on key factors affecting implementation have already been discussed in sections 1.7 and
2.1 above. For a detailed description of outputs, see Annex 2.

Components one and two were almost fully implemented although coverage targets were
not fully met due to overly ambitious targets and more rapid population growth than
anticipated. The main changed outputs for component three are discussed below:

· The construction of the sewage treatment plant was delayed due to the financing gap
  as well as redesigns to allow for future population growth. However, after construction
  started in January 2009, the pace of building has been rapid, construction is completed,
  equipment has been installed and tested and the plant became operational in May 2010.
  Interceptors have been completed (17.5 km) but they have not yet been fully linked to
  the sewage system awaiting full operationalization. Interceptors are expected to be
  fully linked up by the end of 2010.
· 6,500 individual sewage connections to trunk systems have been completed so far, out
  of the 7,500 which had been anticipated at appraisal. The target has not been fully
  achieved yet, as some families are reluctant to renounce illegal connections due to
  concerns with the costs of sewage use to be paid to COPASA. In order to promote the
  construction of linkages to the trunk system, negotiations have been made by the
  Project with those families who cannot afford to pay for them. Different options have
  been offered, including payment in installments, and partial or full subsidies by
  COPASA.
· Approximately 20 ha of parks have been created. These are closed to public access
  with fencing and are environmentally protected (e.g. stopping the extraction of sand).
  The bidding process is underway for the landscaping and the building of urban parks,
  which will soon be accessible to the public..
· Five flood regularization basins had been planned during preparation; two have been
  executed and one is still to be built. The decrease in number of flood regularization
  basins was the result of a hydrological study by the Federal University of Minas
  Gerais. The basin named BBD1 was built with larger capacity than originally planned,
  therefore making the construction of additional basins unnecessary. The macro
  drainage system, including the open-air flood regularization basins, financed by the
  Project has already had a major impact in preventing floods over the last two years as
  evidenced by the vastly reduced number of households affected by floods.

21      The pace of Project implementation was consistent with forecast key Project
dates, and once the Project was effective often outpaced them.

22.    Four Secretariats participated actively and in a highly motivated manner in
Project implementation (Infrastructure/Works, Social Assistance, Environment,

                                           13
Planning). The Municipal Strategic Development Plan, which was elaborated in a
participatory way, had a strong catalyzing effect, promoting the involvement and
articulation of these Secretariats. The commitment of the municipality to the Project can
also be seen by the volume of additional funds allocated to the Project, corresponding to
around 2 percent of its annual budget. The mid-term review report, stresses the quality of
the works and the degree of motivation of the staff of the municipality. In general,
commitment by both the municipality and COPASA has been evaluated as exemplary.

23.     The excellent relationship between the municipality and COPASA (the latter
invested R$ 80.3 million in the Project, 41.8 of which as additional funding) was also key
to successful implementation. The legal agreement originated by the judicial process was
binding for COPASA. However, the collaborative attitude between the parties was at
least as important for successful Project implementation. This is true for the technical
side as well. COPASA participated in the supervision of designs and execution of works.

24.     The change of municipal government in January 2009 negatively affected Project
implementation. Although almost all Project funds had already been disbursed or
committed at that time, there was a slow-down in the pace of implementation as the new
government substituted a large share of UGP staff. The shifts in priorities of the new
government also led to some changes or delays in outputs and implementation. However,
overall commitment towards the Project has been maintained and the strategic direction
of the new municipal government is broadly in line with the previous one.

25.    The Project ICR was postponed six months to mid-2010 with Operations Policy
and Country Services (OPCS) approval to allow for completion of the Waste Water
Treatment Plant. At the end of the ICR preparation, all Project activities were completed
with the exception of the final connection of some of the interceptors scheduled by the
end of 2010. As noted above, the team is confident that this will be completed as strong
financial and legal incentives are in place for the municipality to improve water quality of
the Betim River.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.     The Results Framework of the Project was designed for the PAD with yearly
targets, and further discussed and adjusted in January 2006. Overall, the choice of key
PDO outcome indicators and targets (Improved quality of Betim River - IQA class 3, and
Improved Environmental Health - ISA) was overly ambitious within the context of the
Bank's Project cycle. These specific indicators can only show significant improvements
after some time has passed and not at immediate Project completion, even if all the works
had been completed before the closing date. In addition, there may be other sources of
pollution in the Betim River not just attributable to untreated sewage. At the same time,
the roads, flood control installations and sewerage networks and interceptors were not
reflected in the main PDO indicators. Success was mostly defined as being heavily
dependent on the achievement of better quality of the water of the Betim River.



                                            14
26.     Most baseline data were only collected during the second year of implementation
(2006). The elaboration of ISA ­ a key outcome indicator measuring quality of life ­ see
section 3.2 ­ was also completed in 2006. Proper surveys of beneficiaries were not
realized at time zero, mid-term review and Project closure as planned. A cadastre of
families in risk-prone areas was executed some time before resettlement but while
planned for, no new survey of the resettled families has been carried out by the
municipality.

27.     On the whole, whilst several sources of data were routinely collected and used to
inform the decision-making process during Project implementation - besides the basic
indicators in the ISRs - available data were not systematized and analyzed into a single
system or document. Hence, their actual usefulness for M&E has been limited. In 2009, a
firm was contracted to collect and systematize data and prepare a report for the final
evaluation of the Project. This partially solved previous shortcomings.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

28.      The Project was classified as Category A, requiring a thorough Environmental
Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The Project complied with all relevant
safeguards. Public consultations were carried out and documented following the Bank´s
disclosure procedures. The EA results and recommendations have been incorporated into
the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and into Project components. The Project
had a strong environmental emphasis, including actions aimed at strengthening the
institutional capacity of the municipal Secretariat of Environment (SEMEIA), as well as
reviewing municipal environmental policies and regulations. Engineering designs were
revised to (i) preserve, whenever possible, natural riverbeds; (ii) preserve Conservation
Areas and riparian vegetation; and (iii) use available space to enlarge parks. Outputs
produced under the EMP are described in Annex 2. Other positive environmental effects
of the Project include the control of floods and landslides, and the improvement of water
quality when the sewage treatment plant becomes fully operational.

29.     Resettlement was carried out in accordance with the RAP and no significant
problems were encountered. 887 families were successfully resettled (330 were resettled
to the newly built Conjunto Celso Pedrosa, and 557 received financial compensation).

30.    The Natural Habitats Policy was triggered as the Project was meant to rehabilitate
and protect water resources, including degraded riparian vegetation. Whilst informal
settlements have been removed from rivers´ banks, no specific action have yet been
undertaken to rehabilitate riparian vegetation as the waste treatment plant is not yet in full
operation. Urban parks aimed at extending vegetation have been effectively created.

31.    The Safety of Dams Policy was triggered because of the water reservoir of Várzea
das Flores. A study was contracted to analyze floods with respect to the water reservoir.

                                             15
Besides that, specific guidelines were established and implemented under this Policy for
the safety of flood regularization basins, following the recommendations of hydrologic
and geo-technical studies by the UFMG.

Fiduciary

32.    Financial management (FM) of the Project was carried out in accordance with the
arrangements agreed upon in the legal agreements. Formal audits were carried out on an
annual basis. The FM rating varied between Satisfactory and Highly Satisfactory from
2005 until the end of 2008. Because of problems resulting from changes in the UGP team
and the abrupt interruption of the contract with the implementation management firm
during the municipal government transition, the rating for FM was downgraded to
Moderately Unsatisfactory and then Unsatisfactory. With strong guidance and
supervision from the Bank FM staff, these problems were eventually resolved.

33.    Procurement was also rated as Satisfactory or Highly Satisfactory until late 2008
when some difficulties were encountered due to the change in municipal administration
and went to Moderately Satisfactory. Training and assistance in fiduciary procedures
was provided again and the Project's procurement performance was solid overall.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

34.    The provision of water and sanitation services in Betim is the responsibility of
COPASA. As COPASA ranks among the best utilities in W&S in Brazil and has an
excellent O&M track record, the risk to the sustainability of the investments executed
under the Project is very low.

35.      Investments related to paving and macro-drainage are operated and maintained by
the Secretariat of Infrastructure of the Municipality of Betim. The same is the case for
solid waste collection and O&M of Parks. The resources for these services come from the
municipal budget, which has continued to show a growing fiscal trend. Overall there is
little doubt about the current's administration's capacity as well as commitment to the
O&M of the Project's investments, as evidenced by the large amount of additional
resources that continue to be leveraged to expand the works.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36.      The Project objectives target some of the most relevant challenges that the
Municipality of Betim was facing at the time of preparation, namely: (i) an
environmentally degraded situation directly impacting on living conditions of the city's
poor, as well as systemically on the regional water resources network; (ii) low-quality
social services, affecting mainly the poor who have no access to higher-quality private
sector services; and (iii) the need to strengthen the capacity of the municipal
administration for planning, regulating, implementing and monitoring sectoral and
territorial policies. These objectives were consistent with the Bank CAS 2003-2007.
                                          16
37.     The design of the Project and its institutional strengthening, social and works
components succeeded in addressing these key issues. The Project also contributed to
qualify the municipality for the planning of new urban operations, leveraging funds,
managing complex interventions, evaluating and restructuring its services, and
strengthening its capacity especially in the social and environmental sectors.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

38.     Two of three main indicators capturing the outcomes of the PDO are fully or
partially related to water quality in the Betim River. These indicators depend on the
completion of construction and entering into operation for some time of the treatment
plant. By definition, and particularly the IQA, these are not gradually varying indicators
(like the construction of water and sewerage networks that result in gradual increase of
coverage) but rather all or nothing indicators. In addition, there may be other potential
point sources of pollution of the river from industries, upstream uses, etc which are not
under the control of the Project. For these types of Projects it is more appropriate to use
% of DOB removal by the wastewater treatment plant as the indicator. Since the
construction of the treatment plant suffered a delay and only very recently entered into
operation (10 months after the closing date), currently the water quality indicator has not
yet changed in relation to the base line value. However, the Project was successful during
four years of tremendous efforts and large investments to deliver sewerage networks,
interceptors and wastewater treatment installations. Now that the treatment plant has
entered into operation, the water quality of the Betim River will improve rapidly and
measurably, especially upstream of the treatment plant but also downstream, and the
target water quality index is likely to be achieved over the next year if potential other
sources of pollution are also controlled at the same time.

39.    There is a high level of confidence that improvement in the water quality will be
achieved for the following reasons:
    · There are very strong financial incentives to improve the quality of the water, as
       half of the costs of the plant (approx.US$ 10M) are covered by a PRODES grant
       from ANA that will only be disbursed once results in water quality have been
       achieved.
    · Both the municipality and COPASA stand to receive very high fines if they fail to
       comply with the improved environmental standards under the ruling by the Public
       Ministry.

40.    Once the treatment plant is in full operation, the wastewater of the population
connected to the network will no longer be discharged into the river as raw sewage, and
the water of the upstream section of the river will be mostly natural water. With time, the
households currently not connected will also connect to the sewerage network and the
organic matter of the bottom sediments will be depleted, so that river water quality will
improve over time after the start up of the treatment plant. The water quality downstream
of the treatment plant is also expected to significantly improve since the selected
treatment process (UASB followed by activated sludge) should yield a high quality

                                            17
effluent, as proven in other treatment plants in Brazil that operate under the same process.
It is expected that by the end of 2010, more than 90% of the present pollution discharge
will be removed. In the meantime, COPASA has already defined 25 points for
monitoring the quality of the Betim River.

41.     ISA has been elaborated according to the State policy for sanitation, but in the
case of the Project is a proxy for quality of life, and is meant to be influenced by the
interventions of the Project in sanitation, social services, as well as ­ indirectly ­ by
better governance resulting from institutional strengthening. It is an index which includes
indicators on water provision and quality, sewage coverage and treatment, garbage
disposal, control of diseases transmitted through water, risks for water resources,
mortality associated to water-transmitted diseases and respiratory diseases, income,
education. For all these indicators benchmarks have been established. The present value
of ISA (68.7 achieved versus 91.5 target) is strongly influenced by the water quality
indicator IQA (weight: 28 points), which has not moved from the baseline value because
the wastewater treatment plant has only very recently become operational. It is estimated
that the value of ISA would be 86.2 today, if one takes out the water quality component.
However, it is expected to be close to the target when it becomes fully operational.

42.     Other achievements include investments in secondary roads as part of the
integrated intervention (23.8 km) that have resulted in much better access to and from the
intervention areas of the Project and provide a formal land use to the river creeks
previously severely degraded. The Project has also invested in macro-drainage (15 km) as
well as the construction of the two flood regularization basins and the number of
households affected by floods has been significantly reduced.

43.     The achievement of the development objectives of the Project is rated as
Satisfactory. This reflects the fact that all output targets have been substantially or fully
met, while the Projects' formal PDO outcome indicators are dependent on an
improvement in water quality. The following table summarizes the values achieved by
PDO indicators as well as projected outcomes for the 2011.


PDOs           Outcome            Baseline Value          Target           Actual (2009)     Projected (
               Indicators             (2004)                                                   2011)
Promote        Improved quality
sustainable    of the Betim            25                  70
socio-         River (IQA Class      (BAD:               (GOOD:                  12             50-70
economic       3)                  25<IQA<50)          70<IQA<90)
development
                                  Water coverage:    Water coverage:      Water coverage:
                                  94%                100%                 98%

Reduce                            Sewage             Sewage               Sewage
                                                                                            Sewage
inequality     Improved access    coverage: 68%      coverage: 95%        coverage:
                                                                                            coverage: 80%
               to basic urban                                             72.5%
               and                # families in
               environmental      risk prone areas   # families in risk
               services           resettled: 0       prone areas          # families in

                                                18
                                                  resettled: 860   risk prone areas
                                                                   resettled: 887
Enhance           Benchmarking
                                      61.3              91.5            62.06         85-91.5
quality of life   ISA in Betim

Other significant outcomes are discussed in Section 3.5 below.

3.3 Efficiency


44.     Ex-post cost-benefit analysis was applied to the main works of the Project
(sewage connections, wastewater mains and treatment plant, integrated urban drainage,
and parks). These data were then aggregated for the works component, and for the Project
as a whole, including costs for other components. At appraisal, the rate of return and the
net present value were calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of the interventions
under two scenarios: with and without the implementation of the Project. Now, these data
have been updated by considering the actual costs of the Project at closing, whilst all data
(benefits, investments, O&M, net benefits, EIRR) have been adjusted according to
inflation (as measured by the IGP-M Index). This analysis does not take into account any
final adjustments to the costs of the works since Project closing or the further exchange
rate fluctuations which may affect these results marginally.

45.     The EIRR of the Project as a whole decreased from 20% to 15%. Investments in
infrastructure as a whole show a proportionally higher decrease than other Project
components, as their EIRR moves from 28% at appraisal to 18% now. The highest
decrease is in sewage connections (from 175% to 64%). The decrease in the EIRR is
mainly due to increases in costs. For more details see Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

46.     The overall outcome rating is based on the combined assessment of relevance,
efficiency, and achievement of the PDOs. As previously discussed, the relevance of the
Project was high both at entry and now. Implementation and disbursement proceeded
satisfactorily and rapidly. Components were implemented or are close to be completed in
full (not all interceptors are connected yet). As far as the PDOs are concerned, access to
basic urban and environmental services has been expanded; and both the quality of water
and socio-environmental conditions of the population should soon improve significantly,
as sanitation equipment becomes fully operational.



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty impacts, Gender aspects and Social Development


                                             19
47.     The Project's Social and Environmental Education team created an innovative
Social Support Network. This network includes the health, education, social assistance,
works and public services, and environment sectors, as well as an association for
mothers, children and the elderly. With the assistance of the social workers employed by
the Project, specific social needs of families living in the Project intervention were
identified, and families at-risk were attended by the relevant sector. As a result: (i) the
families who used to work in the extraction of sand in the area where the Park of Matinha
do Ingá was created, were attended by SEMAS, and a number of them are now employed
in the formal labor market; (ii) resettled families were attended by the CRAS Norte; (iii)
people from different areas of the Project received vocational training from municipal
programs; courses were also given by firms who participated in works financed by the
Project.

   (a) Institutional Change/Strengthening

48.    The Project contributed to significant improvements in the institutional structure
and capacity of the municipality. An assessment of policies and management capacity of
the municipality was carried out as part of the Municipal Strategic Development Plan.
The recommendations from this assessment were implemented and the new structure was
not changed after the change in government.

49.     The creation of SEMAS and SEMEIA was critical for structuring and
strengthening municipal actions in the social and environmental sectors. Overall,           the
Project contributed to the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the municipality as
a whole, as it incentivized several sectors to: (i) coordinate in order to "re-think the city",
plan and execute integrated interventions; (ii) leverage, allocate and use additional
resources to that purpose; and (iii) perform activities under higher standards of quality
and discipline.

   (b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

50.     Specific beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshop were not undertaken.
Nevertheless, information was collected from the public andbeneficiary communities.As
part of its Communication Plan, the PMB requested a local newspaper (O Tempo) to
conduct an opinion survey about the Project among the public at large. The main results
are the following:
  9 76% of the population were aware of the existence of the avenidas sanitárias;




                                              20
 9  40% of the population were aware of the existence of Project works through some
 communication initiative by the latter;
 9   94% of the population considered the works of Project either good or very good for
 the city;
 9   Only 0.7% of the population considered the works of Project either bad or very bad;
 9   The approval of municipal government exceeds 80%;
 9   More than 60% of those who approve the government indicate the Project works as
 the main reason for approval;
 9  40% of the populations were aware of the existence of Project works through some
 communication initiative by the latter.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

51.     The risk in the medium term of the water quality not improving is low as the
waste treatment plant has entered into operation, and the incentives for operation and
actual improvements are in place. Once completely operational, the PDOs should become
fully achieved. While the new municipal government conducted a significant turn-over in
staff both in UGP and in senior assignments in the Secretariats, overall capacity as well
as commitment to the Project remains good. It is likely that knowledge which has been
transferred to and developed in COPASA will be maintained, due to the high stability of
staff.

52.     Other potential risk to the full achievement of the PDOs include: i) in the area of
sanitation there is a gap of households that still lack individual connections to the sewage
system; ii) water quality does not improve as Projected due to potential new and different
sources of pollution not being controlled; and iii) as is very common in these types of
interventions, there is an alleged high rate of sale of housing units by resettled families in
the Conjunto Celso Pedrosa. Unless properly followed-up, this could lead to potential
new invasions.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53.     The municipality and COPASA received strong technical assistance and support
from the Bank team in addressing and resolving design and technical matters throughout
Project preparation. However, PDO indicators and results framework were overly
ambitious, and cost estimates inaccurate. Quality at entry is overall moderately
satisfactory.

                                             21
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

54.     Supervision and technical assistance by the Bank during the implementation of
the Project were satisfactory. On average, the Bank conducted two full supervision
missions per year. These focused on the following issues: (i) urban infrastructure and
resettlement, (ii) procurement processes and contracts, (iii) financial management, and
(iv)overall follow-up and supervision of Project components. The Bank team also worked
closely with the municipality in addressing the financing gap that emerged as well as
temporary issues that arose in FM and procurement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

55.      The Bank performed satisfactorily both in the design phase and during
supervision of Project implementation, providing key inputs on technical, operational,
institutional and strategic issues.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

56.    Considering the complexity of the Project as well as the fact that this was the first
experience of World Bank municipal lending in Brazil, the preparation on the side of the
Government was efficient. Implementation was also satisfactory, and no serious problems
occurred during the execution of Project components. The UGP performed well and was
supported and complemented by the implementation management consultancy firm. The
Operational Manual was followed carefully.

57.    Most importantly, the municipality showed a constant commitment and sense of
ownership of the Project, assuming ­ through SEMAS and SEMEIA ­ the direct
execution of certain sub-components (by using its own staff and resources only), as well
as leveraging and managing substantial additional funds which were critical for the
completion of the Project and the achievement of its PDOs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

58.    The performance of both the municipality and COPASA followed high technical
standards in works, searching ­ with the strategic support of the Bank ­ for state-of-the-
art solutions especially to sanitation and flood-control problems. In addition, the

                                            22
relationship between the PMB and COPASA has been assessed as exemplary.
Management of multi-dimensional interventions was done on the basis of collaboration
and involvement of the different sectors of the municipality through routine inter-sectoral
meetings.

   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

59.     Given the centrality that the Project assumed within the municipal program in
Betim, the institutional and financial commitment of the municipality and COPASA, the
performance in the implementation and the standards of the works, and continued
government support and commitment to concluding the works with non-Bank financing -
overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

59.    The experience of the Project points to the potential role that the Bank can play in
bringing together the utility companies and municipalities in a productive and innovative
way and to enforce the provision of quality service delivery through long term concession
contracts. A large part of the counterpart funding for the Project was provided by
COPASA, while the municipality remained responsible for all procurement and Project
management. This was a very positive experience that has the potential to be replicated in
other Projects.

60.      Flexibility on counterpart funding from the utility, the acceptance by the Bank of
works contracts already underway as part of counterpart funds, advanced key bidding
processes prior to effectiveness, the creation of specific Bidding Committees for the
Project, and the design of few and large contracts were all important design aspects that
facilitated implementation and a high level of disbursement right from the beginning of
the Project. These aspects can be replicated in similar Projects ­ particularly in a context
where there is a considerable delay between Board approval and effectiveness of a
Project.


61.     Bank teams need to be very careful when designing the results framework in
general and the key outcome indicators in particular. In the case of this Project, the
outcome indicators ­ while absolutely accurate ­ were too ambitious to be achieved
within the timeframe of the Bank's Project cycle and with no allowance for contingencies
that may cause slippage, or other potential sources of water pollution. In addition, the
targets set were very ambitious. It may be more realistic to provide a wider range of
targets (e.g. coverage between 75-90 percent) rather than provide up-front guesstimates
of absolute numbers, particularly in a fast-growing population context.

62.    From the Bank's perspective, this pilot experience is exemplary in achieving
relevance, impact and sustainability in a context where the Bank is not the only or even
most important source of funding. A relatively small capital investment by the Bank led
                                            23
to a new strategic plan, strengthened the institutions in charge of the various aspects of
municipal development, and led to a tripling of leveraged funds to complete the Project.
From the municipalities' perspective, this is a very attractive arrangement as the Bank
provides strong technical assistance as well as a `stamp of approval' which makes
leveraging further funding easier. Provided that the Bank identifies similar strong
municipal partners, this model can be replicated in other Projects, in or outside of Brazil.

63.     Lessons can also be learned from this Project as a pilot experience in municipal
lending for urban development and integrated urban water management Projects: (i)
municipalities are the primary actors in urban development: therefore, it is essential that
in these type of Projects a sense of priority and ownership is created among key actors in
the municipal administration (mayor, secretaries and senior staff); (ii) integrated urban
development Projects such as these enhance local governments' capacity to manage
complex interventions as well as strategic thinking on how cities must be (institutionally
and physically) shaped; (iii) complex urban development Projects can be managed
effectively by medium-sized municipalities with a reasonable institutional and
operational capacity; however, external support (by the Bank, consultants, etc.) is critical,
especially in key issues such as Project design, institutional strengthening, organizational
reengineering, resettlement, complex engineering tasks, and fiduciary issues; (iv) inter-
sectoral arrangements cannot work at the level of the Project or of the UGP alone; they
must already exist, or be created in the municipality as a whole.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners


(a)Borrower/implementing agencies


The borrower submitted their completion report in September 2009 (see annex 7
for a summary). The draft ICR was submitted to the counterparts for comments
on December 2nd, 2009. No written comments were received. Following the
decision to postpone the ICR submission to allow for the completion of the works,
the ICR team had various conversations with members from the Municipality and
COPASA in May and June 2010 and verbal agreement was reached on the final
numbers in the ICR reflecting also the entering into operation of the Waste Water
Treatment Plant in May 2010.


(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) at appraisal and closing
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)\
 MUNICIPAL POLICIES AND
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                  2.1                  0.65             32%
STRENGTHENING
 SOCIAL INCLUSION                       6.8                  7.2             106%
 MUNICIPAL
INFRASTRUCTURE AND
                                       34.7                82.05             236%
URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL
REHABILITATION
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                     3.0                  5.70            190%

            Total Baseline Cost              46.6               95.6               205%
Physical Contingencies
                                              1.5                   1.5
Price Contingencies
                                              0.9                0.9
             Total Project Costs             49.0               98.0
Front-end fee PPF                                                0
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.2                0.2                    .
     Total Financing Required                49.2               98.2               199%




(b) Financing
                                                                     Actual/Latest
                                                        Appraisal
                                                                       Estimate
                                           Type of      Estimate                   Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                                (2009)
                                         Cofinancing     (USD                        Appraisal
                                                                          (USD
                                                        millions)
                                                                       millions)
 Borrower                                              25.34         75.5          300
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       24.075        24.075       100
and Development




                                               25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


   1. Municipal Policies and Institutional Capacity Strengthening

   1.1. Governance and Planning

The Municipal Strategic Development Plan (PED) was developed through a participatory
methodology, while the PMB was already updating its Urban Master Plan. The PED was
evaluated as a sound document, and it includes a diagnostic of the municipality, its
weaknesses and strengths, and five potential scenarios with the respective actions that the
Municipality should promote; the scenarios consider, among others, policy alternatives
and associated costs, targets associated to fiscal performance, methodologies for
consensus-building. The previous municipal government made use of the Plan which
guided its action according to the scenarios which had been chosen. In contrast, the
present administration has chosen not to use the Plan and to adopt different perspectives.
The firm which elaborated it proposed an amendment to the contract in order to make
adjustments that fit in with the new political vision, but this was not accepted. In addition,
local private sector agents ­ such as FIAT and PETROBRÁS ­ which in the Plan are
meant to be important stakeholders for local development, and which had been involved
in its elaboration, have delayed their investments due to the global economic crisis, and
are presently negotiating new arrangements with the present administration.

   1.2. Local Service Provision

   a. Assessment of policies and management capacity

The assessment of policies and of the management capacity of the PMB was mainly
executed as part of the PED, as well as the impact of demands from the metropolitan
region on municipal services, identifying alternative models of service provision and
evaluating the efficiency of present services.       Its recommendations have been
implemented by the PMB:

   (i)     The structure of Secretariats of the PMB has been reorganized; specifically,
           the Secretariat of Environment was created (previously it was a department of
           the Secretariat of Public Works), as well as the Secretariat of Social
           Assistance - SEMAS (which previously was a department of the Secretariat of
           Planning). In turn, the Secretariat of Public Works became an extension of the
           Secretariat of Infrastructure.
   (ii)    A specific Bidding Committee was created, and its staff trained, for all public
           works in Betim ­ previously, the same bidding committee was dealing with all
           kinds of contracts, both large and small.

This new administrative structure has not been modified after the change of government.


                                             26
   b. Creation of an information system for institutional and public control

The system has been developed and made accessible to the public, using financial and
technical resources of the PMB only.

   c. Creation of a basic infrastructure cadastre


The PMB already had a geo-referenced cadastre of its infrastructure and equipment,
which has been strengthened and updated during the execution of the Project, with no
need for external contracting ­ the process was conducted by existing staff of the PMB.
In addition, SEMAS created a cadastre of its equipment and services, which did not exist,
following the new federal guidelines for Social Assistance; such a cadastre has not been
computerized yet, although a bidding process has been successfully completed, as the
present government did not authorize to start the contract yet.

   1.3. Environmental Management

   a. Environmental policies, management and regulation

Institutional analysis and strengthening of SEMEIA was conducted as part of the process
of organizational restructuring of the PMB, following the suggestions of PED. The
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was developed as part of the institutional
strengthening process, and its actions have been described already in the ICR main text,
in section 2.4 on Safeguards.

Environmental licensing ­ which is the responsibility of FEMA, a state-level body ­ has
been decentralised, as a department of FEMA was opened in Betim.

Under the coordination of SEMEIA, the TOR is being elaborated for consultancy
services aiming at systematizing existing environmental data and providing
recommendations on their use for municipal environmental management.

   b. Water resources management and water quality monitoring

Monitoring and management of waters is being coordinated by SEMEIA, with the
participation of COPASA and of the Civil Defense. COPASA is directly responsible for
collecting data and conducting physic-chemical and bacteriological analyses.

   c. Monitoring the quality of industrial effluent discharge into water resources bodies

Aterms of reference for an environmental cadastre had been prepared by the previous
government; this is under review by the present administration, in order to add an
economic cadastre. The process of monitoring industrial effluent discharge could be
simplified, and quickly made operational, as it is already known that 90% of such
discharge is concentrated in ten firms.


                                           27
   d. Environmental education program

The whole environmental education program was executed by the Secretariat of
Environment (Department of Environmental Development and Education), using its own
resources and staff. SEMAS, UGP, SAOSP, Housing Department and COPASA
participated in the program too, as well as the Secretariats of Education and of
Communication. Several activities were realized, among which door to door mobilization
and monitoring of selective garbage collection can be emphasized. Specifically under the
Project, the following actions have been executed:

(i) environmental training of employees of contracted construction firm Barbosa Mello;
(ii) school challenge on the Betim River;
(iii) door-to-door mobilization on selective garbage disposal and the problem of garbage
disposal in the rivers;
(iii) mobilization of the community promoting household linkages to the sewage trunk
system.

SECOM also prepared and executed a Social Communication Plan, with resources of the
PMB only. The plan included the production of informative publications, contacts with
media, diffusion of information on the Project in newspapers, radios and TVs.


   2. Social Inclusion

   2.1. Resettlement of families living in risk-prone areas

In order to execute drainage works, interceptors, and the rehabilitation of rivers banks
and green areas, resettlement of families was necessary. 557 families received
compensation, and 330 families were resettled from flood-prone areas to new housing
units in Conjunto Celso Pedrosa, whose construction was concluded in 2007.

When compensations would be too small in value (below R$ 10,000) to allow families to
purchase a new house, these were resettled in the Conjunto Celso Pedrosa. Even so, the
social team of the Project had to work hard in order to convince these families to accept a
new house in the Conjunto rather than financial compensation. Highest compensations
reached the value of R$ 20,000. Families who received compensation were monitored for
a short time and most of them moved to other cities.

Temporary rental subsidy was provided to families to be resettled or living in high risk
areas. Turn-over in temporary house rental was quite high.

New housing units in the Conjunto Celso Pedrosa are one-floor, two or three-room
houses; the size of three-room houses is 48 m2; land is available in individual plots for
limited expansion of the houses. All units are served with water, sewage and electricity,
as well as with solar energy panels for water heating.

                                            28
An area exists in Conjunto Celso Pedrosa where social equipment (such as a school)
should be built; however, it has not been constructed so far.

A methodology was developed and implemented for social support and follow-up of the
families that were resettled in the Conjunto. This methodology included: meetings with
the community at large for presentation of the Project; cadastre of families; meetings with
community groups following the works; meetings in CRAS and for the Bolsa Família
program; meetings with school directors; prioritization of unemployed adult members of
families to be resettled for hiring in works financed by the Project; vocational training
and programs for income generation; follow-up of families after resettlement.


   2.2. Support for physical improvements in poor communities

Approximately 650 families received "kit reboco" for house improvements, the results of
which are substantial, even visibly so. Because of its success, the PMB is preparing a
similar program for roofs.

   2.3. Strengthening municipal social policies and programs

This intervention was meant to strengthen the policies and programs of SEMAS. It was
not executed as part of the Bank Loan, as most of the activities it included were realized
by SEMAS itself, being requisites for its insertion in the new arrangement for Social
Assistance which has been promoted by the Federal Government. Specifically:

   -   SEMAS improved 6 CRAS (Centre of Reference for Social Assistance);
   -   SEMAS made an evaluation of its social services, and updated the cadastre of
       Bolsa Família.
   -   The only action which was supposed to be financed by the Project was the
       computerization of its cadastre of equipment. As mentioned above, such an
       information system, although successfully bidded, has not been contracted.
   -
   -
   It is worth mentioning a further action in the social area which has been promoted by
   the Project. The team for social follow-up and environmental education of the Project
   promoted the creation of a Social Support Network, including the sectors of health,
   education, social assistance, works and public services, environment, and of an
   association dealing with mothers, children and the old. Through the social assistants
   of the Project, specific social needs of families living in areas of intervention of the
   Project are detected, and families at risk are contacted by the relevant sector. In this
   way, (i) the families who used to work in the extraction of sand in the area where the
   Park of Matinha do Ingá should be created, were attended by SEMAS, and part of
   them have been inserted in the formal labour market; (ii) families resettled from the
   Av. São Paulo to the Sítio Poções neighbourhood have been attended by the CRAS
   Norte; (iii) people from different areas of the Project received vocational training

                                            29
from municipal programs; specifically, courses were given also by firms who
participated in works financed by the Project.


3. Municipal Infrastructure and Urban Environmental Rehabilitation

3.1. Implementing and expanding basic urban environmental infrastructure: (i) one
     500 l/s sewage treatment plant, (ii) 7,500 sewerage connections, (iii) 15 km of
     macro-drainage, (iv) 18 km of secondary roads improvement, (v) 5 open-air
     flood regularization basins.

(i)    The sewage treatment plant became operational in May 2010. The original
       deadline of December 2009 was not be met because of problems related to the
       type of soil and heavy rains that occurred during execution. It is financed
       mainly by the agreement between COPASA and PMB, as 98% of funds come
       from COPASA, 1.5% from the PMB, and 0.5% from the Bank Loan. The
       Central Sewage Treatment Plant has been designed with a secondary
       treatment level, with the following format: anaerobic reactor followed by
       activated conventional sludge and mechanic dehydratation of the latter. The
       plant has anefficiency higher than 90% in removing both DBO and SST. The
       final discharge will be to the Betim River. Not all interceptors have been
       linked to the sewage system so far but are scheduled to be by the end of 2010.
       As by-products, bio-gas will be produced and the sludge will be used for
       reforestation. The plant and the interceptors will serve 371,000 people,
       corresponding to 100% of the population of the Betim River basin and 80% of
       the population of Betim (the remaining 20% is already attended by other
       systems). In a possible second stage, the plant can be expanded to attend
       528,776 inhabitants, with a flow of 724,34 L/s.
(ii)   6500 individual sewage connections to trunk systems have been executed so
       far, out of 7500 which have been planned at appraisal. The target has not been
       fully achieved yet, as some families are still reluctant to renounce to their
       existing inadequate connections, being concerned with the costs of sewerage
       use to be paid to COPASA. For promoting the construction of linkages to the
       trunk system, negotiations have been made by the Project with those families
       who cannot afford to pay for such construction, to whom different options
       were offered, including payment by installment, or partial or total subsidy by
       COPASA. Besides that, the program for reducing the cases where the same
       system is used for both sewage and rainwater drainage ("caça-esgoto"
       program) has been concentrated in the basins of Betim River and Areias
       River, following the execution of the works of secondary sewage networks
       and interceptors. With regard to the latter, 17.5 km of interceptors have been
       executed. However, in order for the interceptors be fully operational, some
       segments which are already being executed must be concluded, such as the
       interceptor in front of the Shopping Centre, which will allow the linkage to the
       sewage treatment plant of approximately 50% of the River Areias basin. In



                                        30
        order to link the rest of the basin, further investments are necessary; these are
        already underway or have been planned for the next year.
(iii)   Macro-drainage and secondary roads: initially named "avenidas sanitárias",
        and then renamed "avenidas de integração", these works were meant to both
        improve drainage and to function as access roads. The outputs are the
        following: 23.8 km of avenidas de integração executed versus a target of 15
        km of macro-drainage and 18 km of secondary roads improvement. As the
        avenidas de integração are aligned with the river banks, they are aimed also at
        preventing new invasions on the latter.
(iv)    Flood regularization basins: in PAD, five of such basins had been planned;
        two have been executed (BD1 and BD-Imbiriçu) so far. The decrease in the
        number of flood regularization basins has been justified by a hydrological
        study by the Federal University of Minas Gerais, indicating that the basins
        Paulo Camilo and Via Expressa are no longer necessary, as BD1 and BD-
        Imbiriçu have been built with larger extension and capacity than planned,
        hence making the construction of the two other basins unnecessary. In
        contrast, the BD-Fayol has not been built so far for lack of funds; as these
        have been guaranteed by PAC, this basin will be constructed in the future.


3.2. Improving the protection of water resources by creating three urban parks
     (totalling 30 ha) and restoring riparian vegetation.

Three parks (Matinha do Ingá, Jardim Perla e Sítio dos Poções) have been created
with a total extension of approximately 20 ha, closed to access with fence and
environmentally restored (e.g. closing the extraction of sand). However, ­ The
bidding process is underway for the landscaping and will soon be available to the
public..




                                         31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic and financial analysis prepared at appraisal has been updated considering
the actual costs of the Project as well an index of adjustment at Project's closing. This
analysis does not take into account any final adjustments to the costs of the works or the
further exchange rate fluctuations which may affect the results marginally. The scenario
presented here uses an index of inflation (IGP-M) as factor for adjustment. Detailed
tables on the economic and financial analysis are in the Project files.

1st Scenario ­ Adjustment according to the IGP-M

   A) Economic analysis using the DAP(willingness-to-pay) methodology

   1. Updating costs of works considering (i) the actual value of contracts with the
      constructors Jalk and Barbosa Mello adjusted according to the IGP-M to
      December 31 2008, (ii) amendments to the contract of Barbosa Mello, and (iii)
      the exchange rate of USD (USD 1 = R$ 2.337) on December 31 2008.
   2. Updating of the DAP value in Reais using the IGP-M ­ period September 2003
      (when DAP was originally prepared) to December 2008, for all Project
      components. Conversion to dollar at the exchange rate of December 31 2008.
      Value of the correction in Reais: 43.53%
   3. Adoption of the same yearly maintenance cost (as a percentage of the investment)
      and correction of the benefit as a function of the variation in IGP-M ­ period
      September 2003 to December 2008.

                       Date                           sept/03            dec/08
        DAP                     Currency:           R$       US$      R$       US$
             Interceptor / Treatment               3,72      1,29    5,34      2,28
          Sewage network / Connections            45,13     15,60   64,78     27,72
                    Drainage                      15,67      5,42   22,49      9,62
                   Urban Parks                    21,44      7,41   30,77     13,17



   B) Economic analysis using the HDM methodology

           a. Updating costs of works considering (i) the actual value of contracts with
              the constructors Jalk and Barbosa Mello adjusted according to the IGP-M
              to December 31 2008, (ii) amendments to the contract of Barbosa Mello,
              and (iii) the exchange rate of USD (USD 1 = R$ 2.337) at December 31
              2008.

                                      Date           sept/03            dec/08
        DAP                      Currency:         R$       US$      R$       US$
              Interceptor / Treatment             3,72      1,29    6,43      2,75

                                             32
                 Sewage network / Connections          45,13    15,60    78,04     33,39
                          Drainage                     15,67     5,42    27,10     11,59
                         Urban Parks                   21,44     7,41    37,07     15,86



           Comparison of updated values with the values of PAD

                                     Adjusted according to IGP-M
Summary of Benefits and Costs ­ Net Present Value of flows (US$ 000)
                       Benefits        Investments          O&M          Net Benefits         EIRR
   Component
                    Original Updated Original Updated Original Updated Original Updated Original Updated
Sewage connections 5.867 10.654     967        3.240     69      231    4.840     7.183    175%   64%
Wastewater mains,   9.344 34.978 4.801        18.815     339    3.710   4.204    12.452    37%    25%
treatment plant
Integrated urban    27.202 56.446 18.141      53.510     948    1.981   8.113     955      20%    12%
drainage
Parks               3.836   5.670   835        2.545     169     344     2.832 2.781       79%    47%
Total NPV           51.202 107.748 28.157     78.109    2.595   6.267   20.450 23.372      28%    18%
(infrastructure
investments)
Total Program NPV 51.202 107.748 37.075       89.172    2.595   6.267   11.532 13.494      20%    15%
(including economic
costs of other
components)




                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
            Names                               Title                 Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Stefania Blotta Abakerli
                               Social Development Spec.              LCSSO Social Assesment
Baptista
                                                                             Economic and
Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio Senior Economist                       LCSPE
                                                                             Financial Analysis
Dean A. Cira                   Sr Urban Spec.                        EASVS   Urban Planning
Martin P. Gambrill             Senior Water Engineer                 LCSUW   Engineering
                                                                             TTL and
Paula Dias Pini                Senior Urban Development Specialist   LCSUW
                                                                             Resettlement
                                                                             Environmental
Juan D. Quintero               Sr Environmental Engr.                EASRE
                                                                             Assessment
Emilio H. Rodriguez            Consultant                            LCSPT
Maria Angelica Sotomayor                                                     Economic and
                               Senior Economist                      LCSUW
Araujo                                                                       Financial Analysis
Supervision
Joao Vicente Novaes Campos Financial Management Specialis            LCSFM   FM
Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira Infrastructure Specialist            LCSUW   Engineering
Lizmara Kirchner                Water & Sanitation Specialist        LCSUW   Engineering
Menahem Libhaber                Lead Sanitary Engineer               LCSUW   Engineering
Luis R. Prada Villalobos        Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT   Procurement
Anemarie Guth Proite            Procurement Specialist               LCSPT   Procurement
Tatiana Cristina O. de Abreu
                                Finance Analyst                      LOADM FM
Souza
                                                                           TTL and
Paula Dias Pini                Sr. Urban Specialist                  LCSUW Resettlement/Social
                                                                           issues/Urban planning
ICR
Bernice van Bronkhorst         Sr. Urban Specialist                  LCSUW TTL
Francesco Divillarosa          M&E Specialist                              Consultant
Marcus da Silva Ferreira       Engineer                                    Consultant



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                  8                       39.12

                                                  34
  FY04                          45   207.76
  FY05                           2    14.49
  FY06                                 0.00
  FY07                                 0.00
  FY08                                 0.00
                  Total:        55   261.37
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                 0.00
  FY04                                 0.00
  FY05                          21   112.76
  FY06                          25    74.74
  FY07                          19    97.72
  FY08                          17    81.04
  FY09                           6     0.00
                  Total:        88   366.26




                           35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No full beneficiary survey was conducted at Project completion. However, during the
preparation of the ICR, visits were made to the Conjunto Celso Pedrosa and local
residents were interviewed informally. The main insights are the following:
  9 Overall, residents are satisfied with the new houses and infrastructure, as compared
     to their previous arrangements; several houses are being expanded, but with very
     poor quality
  9 neighbors relationships have been maintained as far as possible in resettlement;
  9 the main complaints of residents refer to the fact that social equipment have not been
     built so far, and to the consequent long distance to schools and health units (2 ½ - 3
     ½ km), which, in turn, attend a very large area and are made subject to a heavy
     demand; transport to schools is provided free by the PMB for children younger than
     eleven only;
  9 in some cases, families have been resettled from areas as far as 6 km; these suffered
     from the loss of their local (informal) market;
  9 notwithstanding the long time between the initial cadastre of families and the
     resettlement ­ almost three years ­ no extra-families appeared to have been resettled;
     besides that, new invasions in flood-prone areas only happened on a very small scale
     (10 to 20 houses), and only where urbanization works have been interrupted along
     the river banks;
 9 one woman who lives on the border of the Conjunto reports frequent turn-over of
     families, which indicates that houses are being sold, at very low prices (between R$
     18,000 ­ 22,000 versus an estimated cost of construction and provision of
     infrastructure of R$ 45,000);
 9 violence has worsened in the Conjunto, especially in the last six months




                                            36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Draft ICR is with the borrower- no comments received by writing

Summary of the Final Report of the Borrower (translated to English)


                                       38
7.1. Development Objectives of the Project

The general objective of the Project was to improve the quality of life of the population
of Betim, by means of urban improvements and the environmental recover of the Betim
River basin, as well as strengthening the municipal policies, in order to enhance
management of public spaces and services.

The specific objectives of the Project were the following:

· Eliminating untreated wastewater thrown in the Betim river and its tributaries;
· Restoring degraded areas and preserving the natural conditions of waters within the
  urban area of Betim;
· Offering options for leisure and entertainment to the population of Betim;
· Improving the living conditions of the Project´s target population, especially with
  regard to sanitation and housing;
· Reducing the incidence of water-born diseases and the transmission of diseases
  transmitted by rats and insects;
· Contributing to improve the traffic;
· Incorporating new areas of urban expansion into the city;
· Strengthening municipal policies, through the development of important management
  tools such as the Development Master Plan, so that the municipality can manage more
  efficiently the provision of services.

7.2. Achievement of the Objectives

The evaluation is that the general objective of the Project was achieved, as the Project
interventions as a whole ­ in the Betim river basin, its rivers, in the sewage system, and
in instutional strengthening ­ led to a higher level of technical knowledge and of
coverage and operation of infrastructure, whose flexibility and efficiency largely
overcome the original situation at Project appraisal.

The specific objectives were satisfactorily achieved as well, by means of the outputs
discussed below.

· The development of important management tools: (i) the Municipal Master Plan, (ii)
  the Strategic Development Plan, (iii) an updated geo-referenced cadastre of municipal
  equipment which allows the Municipality to provide services more efficiently.
· The expansion and improvement in sanitation, garbage collection and disposal,
  drainage, as well as resettlements of families from risk-prone areas and the creation of
  urban parks.
· Other environmentally and socially relevant outputs, such as (i) an Environmental
  Management Plan, (ii) a Social Communication Plan, (iii) an Environmental Education
  Program, (iv) the control of industrial sources of pollution (its TOR is currently being
  prepared), (v) a program for the elimination of crossed linkages between rain drainage
  and sewage systems, (vi) a plan for the operation of the Varzea das Flores Dam for
  floods control (whose TOR is currently being prepared), (vii) the construction and

                                             39
  operation of basins for flood control, (viii) mitigatory measures and for environmental
  compensation (e.g. the transformation of a discharge area into the Alto das Flores
  urban park), (ix) the institutional strengthening of SEMEIA, (x) water quality
  monitoring, and (xi) technical assistance to the Committee of the Paraopeba River
  Basin.
· Other relevant outputs in the social area include: (i) housing improvements through
  the "kit reboco" program, (ii) the restructuring of CRAS and CREAS and
  strengthening of the social organization "Salão de Encontro", (iii) studies of coverage,
  targeting and impact of social programs, including the Bolsa Família program, and (iv)
  the systematization of data on equipment of SEMAS (computerization of these data
  into a system is still pending upon approval of the contract with the selected firm).

7.3. Factors that affected implementation

Long time for loan signature and changes in Project costs

The Project was prepared between 2001 and 2002, and the Loan was signed as well as
made effective in 2005. Costs of works were estimated according to works which had
been executed in 2000; and the total amount of the Loan was defined by Cofiex based on
the capacity of the Municipality to assume debts. Besides that, during the period between
Project preparation and effectiveness, the following changes occurred: (i) the devaluation
of the US Dollar versus the Real (from an exchange rate of USD 1 = BRL 2.75 at the
time of Project preparation to USD 1 = BRL 2.37 at the end of 2008); (ii) the increase in
civil construction costs (31% between 2001 and 2005); (iii) increased costs of sewage
interceptors, flood control basins, urban parks and avenidas de integração, when their
executive designs were prepared; and (iv) an increase in the extension of roads and
drainage works, resulting in costs increase also.

As a result of such changes, additional funds became necessary to implement the
activities and achieve the objectives of the Project. The Municipality of Betim (PMB) ­
whose fiscal performance improved progressively since the phase of Project preparation,
due to higher tax revenues (see figure below) ­ allocated additional R$ 55.9 million as
counterpart funds to the Project; at the same time, R$ 41.8 million were added to
counterpart funds by COPASA.




                                            40
            Yearly increase in net tax revenues of the Municipality of Betim

Disbursement

Disbursement was low until 2006, due to difficulties in raising the additional counterpart
funds as discussed above. However, since 2007 both the PMB and COPASA succeeded
in allocating additional funds, so that disbursement as a whole could be regularized. A
crucial factor which allowed the original deadlines of the Project to be attained was the
fact that several works that had been included as part of counterpart funds were executed
before the signature of the Loan Agreement.

Procurement

During the first year of Project implementation, the PMB experienced difficulties in
following the procurement rules of the Bank, due to the lack of experience of its
procurement staff in international financing. However, after a course provided by the
Bank and trainings by the contracted implementation management firm, the procurement
staff of the PMB succeeded in regularizing the pace of contracting of the Project.

Besides that, the PMB decided to realize a small number of large biddings for works: (i)
an ICB for the complementation of urban infrastructure (avenidas de integração); (ii) a
NCB for the construction of the Conjunto Celso Pedrosa; and (iii) an ICB for the
construction of the wastewater treatment plant (ETE Central).

Relationships between the PMB and COPASA

The agreement between the PMB and COPASA which was signed in December 2003 is
the key institutional and financial arrangement of the Project. Building upon the
historically good relations between the PMB and COPASA, this agreement established
that COPASA should pass to the PMB R$ 36 million for sanitation and complementary
(macro-drainage and roads) works. In 2004 this agreement was amended adding up to R$
80 million the total contribution of COPASA. Besides that, COPASA participated in the
supervision of both the elaboration of designs and the execution of works.

                                             41
7.4. Risks for the Project Development Objectives

Risks for the Project Development Objectives are considered as Moderate, due to the
following factors that can challenge the sectorial, institutional and operational outcomes
of the Project

Commitment of the Municipal Government is not sustained
Notwithstanding the change in municipal government after 2008 elections, the new
administration reaffirmed its commitment towards the Project. At the state level, the
involvement of COPASA will be maintained. This risk is Moderate.

Component 1 ­ Problems in the preparation and implementation of high-quality TORs
Highly qualified consultants contracted by the Project showed excellent results so far.
The risk of this trend being interrupted is considered as Moderate.

Component 2 ­ Delays affecting the resettlement timetable because of the inherent
complexity of this activity
The municipal staff was strengthened by means of highly qualified contracted
consultants, specialists in resettlement. Capacity of local staff was increased too. This
resulted in a highly satisfactory resettlement process, whose results are supposed to be
maintained (no risk).

Component 3 ­ Delays in procurement of works
Besides the qualification of the PMU, two bidding committees were created: (i) the
Permanent Bidding Committee, and (ii) the Special Evaluation Committee, to support, by
means of technical advice, the Permanent Bidding Committee. The only procurement for
works which was delayed was the bidding for the wastewater treatment plan, whose
construction deadline exceeds the closing date of the Project (risk: low).

7.5. Evaluation of the Bank and Borrower Performance

Performance of the Bank

During Project preparation, the Bank focused its technical advice to the PMB in highly
complex areas, such as the evaluation of impacts on the quality of water, economic
assessment, and resettlement (rating: satisfactory).

During Project implementation, the supervision by the Bank was concentrated on issues
related to urban infrastructure and resettlement, general control of procurement, of
financial management and follow-up of planned actions (rating: satisfactory).

Disbursement by the Bank was satisfactory too, considering that every year it was
performed within three weeks from the date of application.




                                           42
Performance of the Borrower

Project preparation was quite efficient ­ notwithstanding the lack of experience of the
PMB in international financing ­ as a short time was necessary between the beginning of
Project preparation and appraisal.

The supervision of Project implementation was executed by the PMU with the critical
support of the contracted implementation management firm. This had been contracted in
August 2005.

Project components were implemented from February 2006 to June 2009.

7.6. Lessons Learned

· As the area of intervention of the Project is just part of the metropolitan region, its
  isolated treatment can be a pragmatically valid option, but its long-term consequences
  need deeper assessment. In contrast, a wider territorial scope might represent an
  excessive burden for the Project. No easy answers exist for this trade-off, which ­
  nevertheless ­ needs to be critically approached.
· Integrated Projects like the Rio Betim Project present operational problems precisely
  because of their institutional and financial complexity ­ multiple executors and
  multiple sources of funding. In contrast, simplifying excessively the arrangement of the
  Project can lead to even higher risks of lack of commitment of those sectors who are
  not directly involved in the Project.
· Central coordination is imperative in Projects like Rio Betim Project. The
  effectiveness of coordination by the PMU must be obtained through a mix of hierarchy,
  technical knowledge and persuasion. The support of a management firm is critical.
  Targets of institutional strengthening must be ambitious in order to promote relevant
  changes. However, their achievement must be evaluated with some degree of
  flexibility, as it can be significantly influenced by the context, and as institutional
  development is usually a long-term process.
· O&M of infrastructure is as important as the investment for its construction. The
  adoption of state-of-the-art control technology can promote better O&M, as the origin
  of failures can be more easily detected, and gradually behavior in services operation
  can be enhanced.
· In poor urban areas, especially when the incidence of crime is high, the nature of the
  relation between state and society must be modified, aiming at reestablishing the
  presence of the public sector and the confidence of the population in the values of
  citizenship. This implies that the complexity of arrangements must be even higher,
  involving sectors with strong capillarity, such as health, education and public security,
  as well as the Judiciary Power.




                                            43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                  44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   A. Bank Staff Assessments

· World Bank (2004), Project Appraisal Document

· World Bank (2005), Loan Agreement Documents

                                    45
· World Bank (2007), Implementation Completion and Results Report ­
Guidelines

· World Bank (2009), Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) reports

· World Bank (to 2009), Aid Memoires

   B. Other

· Secretaria Municipal de Infra-estrutura/Prefeitura Municipal de Betim (2009),
  Relatorio Final, Projeto de Revitalizacao Urbana e Recuperacao Ambiental da
  Bacia do Rio Betim.

· Secretaria Municipal de Infra-estrutura/Prefeitura Municipal de Betim (to
  2008), Project Implementation Progress reports




MAP




                                       46
                                           R.B. DE            GUYANA
                                         VENEZUELA                                   French
                                                                       SURINAME      Guiana
                                                                                      (Fr.)                                        A T L A NT I C                                                       BRAZIL
              COLOMBIA                          Boa Vista
                                                                                       AMAPÁ
                                                                                                                                        O CE A N                                 INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL
                                                      RORAIMA                                                                                                                          PROJECT
                                                                                     Macapá

                                                                                                             Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                STATE CAPITALS
                                                     Manaus                                                              São Luís
                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                     Fortaleza
                                                                                                                                                             RIO GRANDE                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                       PA R Á                     MARANHÃO        Teresina                   DO NORTE
                           AMAZONAS                                                                                                           CEARÁ                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                   Natal
                                                                                                                                                                                                STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                        PARAÍBA         João
                                                                                                                                                                        Pessoa                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        PIAUÍ                  PERNA
                                                                                                                                                       MBUC
                                                Porto Velho                                                                                               O            Recife
                    ACRE
                                                                                                                                                    ALAGOAS
                           Rio Branco                                                                        Palma                                                   Maceió
                                            RONDÔNIA
                                                                                                 TOCANTINS                                                 Aracaju
                                                                         MATO                                                BAHIA                        SERGIPE
                                                                        GROSSO
                 PERU                                                                                                                                Salvador

                                                                                                           F.D.
                                                                            Cuiabá
                                                                                                BRASÍLIA
                                                                                                      Goiânia
                                            BOLIVIA                                      GOIÁS                        MINAS
                                                                                                                      GERAIS
                                                                       MATO GROSSO                                                       ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                        Belo
                                                                          DO SUL                              Betim     Horizonte        SANTO
            P A C IFIC                                                            Campo Grande
                                                                                                                                         Vitória
            OCEA N
                                                                                              SÃO PAULO
                             CHILE                                                                                                 RIO DE
                                                                 PARAGUAY                          São Paulo
                                                                                                                        Rio de
                                                                                                                                   JANEIRO

                                                                                      PARANÁ                            Janeiro
                                                                                                     Curitiba

                                                                                                                                                A T LAN TIC
                                                                                              STA CATARINA
                                BRAZIL                                                               Florianópolis                                  OC EAN
                                                                               RIO GRANDE
                                                  A R GE N TI N A
                                                  ARGENTINA                       DO SUL
                                                                                              Porto Alegre

                                                                                                                         0        200     400       600 Kilometers                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 37933
                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
JUNE 2010




                                                                       URUGUAY                                           0              200          400 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
