Dowumnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C i. P-2-3 _5l9
Report No. P-4269-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 19.9 MILLION (US$22.6 MILLION) CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 2, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -   Somali Shilling (So.Sh)
US$1.00            =   So.Sh 66.50 'Official rate,
May 1, 19b6)
US$1.00            =   So.Sh 83.60 (Market rate
September 1985, used for appraisal)
Note: There are also two other recognized exchange rates: a
commercial rate determined by the CSBS which is used for
levying import duties, for tourists and other smaller
transactions; and a free market rate determined by the
average of foreign exchange transactions between external
account holders in the CSBS. At May 1, 1986, these rates
were about So.Sh 85 and 150, respectively, to US$1.00.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)               0.62 mile (mi)
1 Sq. kilometer (km2)      =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 Hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 Metric ton (m ton)       =   2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
CSBS     =    Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
DANIDA   =    Danish International Development Agency
EDF      =    European Development Fund
GRT      =    Gross Registered Tonnage
GTZ      =    Duetsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MPW      =    Ministry of Public Works
MPMT     =    Ministry of Ports and Marine Transport
MLAT     =    Ministry of Land and Air Transport
NTA      =    National Transport Agency
MOA      =    Magistrate of Accounts
PIP      =    Public Investment Program
Ro-Ro    =    Roll on, Roll off
SFA           Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
SIDA     =    Swedish International Development Agency
SIDAM    =    Somali Institute of Development
Administration and Management
SJF      =    Special Joint Financing
SPA      =    Somali Ports Authority
SSAL     =    Somali Shipping Agency and Line
TEU      =    Twenty feet equivalent unit (of container)
UAS      =    Uniform Accounting System
USAID    =    United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLu1 USE ONLY
SOMALIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Somali Democratic Republic
Amount:       SDR 19.9 million (US$22.6 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:  Somali Ports Authority (SPA)
Terms:        Standard.
Relending
Terms:       The Government will relend the proceeds of the Credit to SPA
with an annual interest rate of 12 percent per annum over a
15 year repayment period, including five years' grace. SPA
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:
The Project's main objective is to assist SPA to meet the
changes in cargo handling brought about by new shipping
technology and to maximize the utilization of existing
facilities. To this end the Project would: (i) upgrade
existing facilities to handle containers and roll-on,
roll-off traffic; (ii) rectify the subsidence of the
breakwater in Mogadishu; (iii) construct container freight
stations; (iv) procure cargo handling and other equipment
and pallets; (v) construct and equip workshops for the
proper maintenance of equipment; (vi) construct a Port
Training School; and (vii) provide technical assistance,
training, and training equipment.
Project Benefits and Risks:
The maia benefits will be a reduction in ship waiting time
and improved port performance. The improvement in
productivity will allow SPA to defer heavy investments in
additional berths until the year 2010. The main risks are
that the modest growth in traffic as forecast or the increase
in productivity targetted for the Project will not
materialize. These risks have been taken into account in the
sensitivity analysis.
Thu document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs                               Local      Foreign    Total
(USs Millions)
Equipment                                      0.01       5.54       5.55
Civil Works                                    0.91       4.07       4.98
Rectification of Breakwater                    0.27       2.67       2.94
Training and Technical Assistance              0.02       1.55       1.57
Consulting Services                             _         1.44       1.44
Total Base Cost                             1.21      15.27      16.48
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                              0.14         1.80     1.94
(b)  Price                                 0.50         5.48     5.98
Total Costs                                 1.85       22.55    24.40
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                       -        22.6     22.6
Somali Ports Authority                         1.8          -        1.8
Total                                       1.8        22.6     24.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ Million)
IDA FY          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual          0.74   2.96   4.23   4.48   3.83   2.88   2.19   1.24
Cumulative      0.74   3.70   7.93  12.41  16.24  19.12  21.37  22.55
Economic Rate of Return: 32 percent
Maps: IBRD 19505
rBRD 19481
IBRD 19482
IBRD 19483



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PORT AND RECO(kNDTION OF! THE P1usiDisNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 19.9 million
(US$22.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Port
Moderanzation Project.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy entitled: "SomAlia - Towards Economic
Recovery and Growth- (Report No. 5584-SO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in August 1985.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is large and sparsely populated.  It occupies most of the
northeast "horn" of Africa, a location of some strategic significance. Its
varied topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains
and plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and uncertain rainfall.
Its population of about 5.3 million is unevenly distributed over a land
area of nearly 638,000 sq km of semi-desert. There is as yet no census,
but there is evidence of heavy migration to the capital, Mogadishu.
Population growth in recent years has been about 3 percent (excluding
refugee inflows) which win result in long-term pressure on the fragile
resource base. Only about 13 percent of the land is suitable for
cultivation, but with water the main constraint, only a small fraction (8.5
percent) of this potentially arable land is cultivated. The country has
only two rivers of any consequence. The waters of the Shebelli reach the
sea only in exceptional years, being used for irrigation, albeit
inefficiently. The Government proposes to control the Juba through
construction of a large multi-purpose dam at Bardhere, a project currently
under study by the Bank.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
About 50 percent of the population are nomads and semi-nomads who depend on
livestock for their livelihood. Livestock production accounts for about 35
percent of GDP and provided, until recently, over 80 percent of export
earnings. Virtually all livestock exports pass through the country's three
main ports: Mogadishu, Berbera, and Kismayo. Crop production generates
about 8 percent of GDP.
5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas and
the production of sugar, sorghum, and maize for the domestic market.
Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors is limited by the small
size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and shortages of capital
and entrepreneurial experience. The existence of several minerals has been
confirmed, but their exploration is still at an early stage.



- 2 -
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in onshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. Investigations for natural gas, under an IDA
credit, have proved disappointing. In the absence of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development,
whose progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and
water resources, and improvements in animal health.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $260 in 1984. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 20 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
50 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 45 years; an infant
mortality rate as high as 142 per thousand population; primary and
secondary enrolment ratios of 30 percent and 11 percent, respectively; and
a ratio of nearly 16,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of 'scientific socialism" whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing.
9.        In the early 1970s Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health, where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.       During the 1970s the Somali economy  experienced stagnation in
production and a decline in per capita income. Only the services sector
grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year and the growth in
government services, at an annual rate of about 7 percent, was particularly
striking. Beginning in 1981, the economy witnessed a reversal of the past
trend, with real GDP in 1981-82 growing on average by 6.4 percent per year
notwithstanding some decline in the services sector.
11.       Over 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the Gulf area,
which has led to severe depletion of Somalia's already small stock of
qualified and skilled manpower. The savings of these emigrants are



potentially an important resource for the economy, but despite major
adjustments to the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants'
savings is remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted in widened deficits
in both the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill
associated with the Governme t's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid
declined. This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financing. With
further deterioration in the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's
recourse to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of
GDP). This, in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60
percent in 1980.
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete,
but it seems that the country had a reasonably comfortable overall balance
of payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The stagnation in
exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a widening of both the
current and overall balance of payments deficits. The current account
deficit during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared to $110 million
in the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which rose steadily in
the 1970s to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15 million at the end
of December 1980, and have since dwindled to nearly zero.
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the near zero level of
domestic savings have rendered Somalia entirely dependent upon external
asaistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a successful effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. After 1977, the sources of foreign
assistance shifted from the centrally planned economies (except for the
People's Republic of China, which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions and OECD countries, several of
which have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
According to OECD data, Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period
1980-1982 averaged nearly $400 million per year, equivalent to some $75 per
capita per year.
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1.4 billion at end 1984. The structure and terms of
borrowing have also hardened. The debt service ratio in terms of
obligations rose from 7 percent in 1979 to nearly 50 percent in 1983 and is
projected at about 100 percent in 1986. The country also has accumulated
debt service arrears. The problem of arrears has not been fully resolved
by the debt rescheduling at the Paris Club in March 1985. IMF and World
Bank staff have encouraged the Government to seek further debt relief where
possible on concessional terms.



-4-
Policy Changes
16.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action and
embarked on a course of moving towards a more market-oriented economy.
Beginning in early 1981, the Government successfully implemented two
successive stabilization programs supported by IMF standby arrangements.
The measures taken under these programs included adjustment of the exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and significant liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Under the first standby program, a dual exchange
rate ws introduced, producer prices for agricultural crops were increased,
and banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program
also involved a substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking
system and increased interest rates.
17.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. The dual exchange rate wes unified on July 1, 1982,
the Somali shilling was again devalued, interest rates were raised, and
fiscal and monetary expansion was restricted. In January 1983, a bonus
scheme was introduced providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign
exchange terms of inward remittances and capital inflows by Somali
nationals. In mid-1983, a more flexible exchange rate system was
Introduced whereby the Somali shilling was pegged to the SDR adjusted by
the relative rates of inflation between Somalia and the five countries in
the SDR basket.
18.       The Government derided in 1983 to abandon its policy of
guaranteed employment to high school leavers. The Government is in the
process of determining which public enterprises should be phased out of
operation, which privatized, and which retained in the public sector.
Another step to liberalize the economy was the de facto elimination of the
Government monopoly on grain purchases.
19.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83 had
a positive impact on the economy. Reductions were effected in the rate of
growth of the money supply, in Government recourse to the banking system,
and in the rate of inflation. There was also some increase in commodity
production and exports. These measures represented the first stage in the
formulation and implementation of a policy agenda directed at restoring
financial equilibrium, rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity, and establishing the
foundations for long-term growth.
20.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia. It prepared a Medium Term
Recovery Program (MTRP) for the Consultative Group meeting, consisting of
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring the balance of
payments and public finances and at rationalizing the pricing and incentive
structure; and (ii) a resource-constrained Public Investment Program (PIP)
for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this recovery program
represented a major accomplishment.



21.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial policy
measures taken by the Government. They welcomed in particular the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program. These adjustments included postponing some new
projects pending results of new studies, rephasing the implementation of
ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority schemes such as the
rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region. It was recognized at
the meeting that further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly
concessional terms and that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief
also on concessional terms.
22.       Following the Consultative Group Meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,
and agreement was reached with the Bank on terms of reference and timetable
for a study of interim water solutions, financed under the first IDA
Technical Assistance Credit. A USAID financed Civil Service Study has been
reviewed by the Government and arrangements for follow-up are being made.
23.       The progress in financial stabilization and economic recovery
during 1981-83 suffered a major setback in 1984 due to the ban on Somali
cattle imports in the traditional market, the drought of 1983 as well as
the Government's failure to make further policy reforms. Exports
plummeted, inflation reached a record high and debt service arrears
increased further in 1984.
Recent Economic Developments
24.      Faced with mounting external and internal imbalances in 1984, the
Government embarked in early 1985 on a comprehensive economic and financial
program supported by a new IMF Stand-by Arrangement for SDR 22.1 million
and compensating financing facility of SDR 32.6 million in a total amount
equivalent to SDR 54.7 million. The program was a bold and ambitious
undertaking aimed at stabilizing the economy and raising the rate of
economic growth by fostering a more market-oriented economy.
25.      During the first three quarters of 1985, the Government adhered
closely to the agreed terms of the program by dismantling all price
controls, adopting more liberal marketing policies, removing all
restrictions with respect to foreign trade, undertaking a major devaluation
of the official exchange rate, introducing a freely floating exchange rate
for most private transactions, providing export incentives through
increased acceptance of the free exchange market, and pursuing a tight
monetary and fiscal policy. These measures combined with favorable weather
conditions led to increased agricultural production, a reduced inflation
rate, and the expansion of livestock and banana exports.
26.      This performance, however was overshadowed by a substantial and
growing deficit in the official foreign exchange budget which stemmed from
some slippages in the implementation of program measures, delays in the



- 6 -
release of some previously agreed external assistance to finance the
balance of payments gap for 1985, and shortfalls in the level of foreign
exchange receipts, particularly from workers' remittances which shrank
because of the more difficult employment conditions in the Gulf States.
The acute shortage of foreign exchange resulted in substantial shortfalls
from the target level of imports and the emergence of new external payment
arrears, including to the IMF. These arrears, in turn, led to the
inability of Somalia to draw on all resources negotiated under the stand-by
arrangement and to reduced drawings on loans from various international
organizations and governments, thereby compounding the balance of payments
financing problems and causing a halt to many development projects.
The Consultative Group Meeting of November, 1985
27.      At the second Consultative Group (CG) meeting, held in Paris on
November 5 and 6, 1985, the Government presented to the donor community its
"National Development Strategy and Programme" containing the three-year
(1986-88) public investment program (PIP). Bank Staff reviewed the
proposed PIP and, in view of limitations of implementation capacity, the
urgency of need to confine investments to high priority projects and
Somalia's balance of payments and overall growth prospects, recommended a
core  PIP of around $600 million over the three-year period (compared with
the Government's proposed PIP of $685 million). This was also endorsed by
donors who commended the Government for the adjustment measures it had
taken and strongly supported the Government's development strategy that
emphasized public investment focussed on rehabilitation of existing
capacity, and economic policy reform to improve efficiency and promote the
private sector.
28.      It was further stressed at the CG meeting that the success of the
Government to sustain and strengthen the implementation of the adjustment
and reform program and therefore to enhance the prospect for attaining a
viable balance of payments position in the medium-term, would continue to
depend closely on the type, level, and timeliness of donor support.
29.      In this regard, and in order to raise resources needed to finance
the projected balance of payments gap for 1986, the Bank requested donor
assistance in amount of $426 million to be disbursed in that year, divided
between projects ($160 million), food support ($45 million), petroleum
assistance ($20 million), other commodity aid ($50 million), cash aid ($30
million) and debt relief ($121 million).  With the exception of shortfalls
in aid pledged in the form of petroleum and cash, donors responded
favorably in providing assistance in all other respects -- indeed, the
targets for project and food assistance were exceeded.
January 1986 Agreements with IMF
30.      At the time of the CG meeting, the 1985 stand-by arrangement with
the Fund was still suspended, but understandings were reached between the
Fund staff and the Somali authorities on policy measures needed to be
instituted by authorities to improve Somalia's precarious balance of



- 7 -
payments situation. This was followed by a Fund mission (with Bank staff
participation) to Somalia during January 5-12, 1986 to discuss with the
authorities comprehensive adjustment measures that could permit completion
of the review of the stand-by arrangements. The mission found that despite
some slippages in the implementation of the agreed stand-by program that
had occurred because of the acute shortage of foreign exchange,
developments under the program had shown an important degree of success in
various areas. The new price and marketing policies have had a positive
impact on agricultural production. The increase in production is estimated
to have resulted in at least four percent increase in real GDP, while the
better supply conditions together with the more cautious fiscal and
monetary policy pursued by the Government has led the rate of inflation to
decline to about 30 percent, compared to 82 percent in 1984. The pricing
policies have had a particularly favorable impact on exports, which are
estimated to have increased by about 78 percent over the depressed 1984
level. Especially notable is the almost doubling of livestock exports,
despite the continued ban of Somali cattle exports to the traditional
market. On the fiscal policy side, although revenue collections have
fallen considerably below the target established in the program for 1985,
in part because imports fell 24 percent below the initial estimate, the
Government has made every effort to restrain expenditure, so that the
overall deficit for 1985 is presently estimated at 3.4 percent of GDP,
compared to a target under the stand-by arrangement of 2.2 percent. Given
the difficulties encountered, this outcome reflects considerable effort on
the part of Government to meet the established objectives. The suspension
of the Fund program was lifted on April 23, 1986, after the arrears to the
Fund had been paid.
31.      The Government of Somalia intends to strengthen the program
further in order to improve the success of the adjustment effort. It has
agreed inter alia (i) to implement the gradual exchange rate unification
policy in order to ensure complete unification by the end of 1986, (ii) to
unify the commercial rate with the free market rate and to levy import
duties on the basis of this unified rate rather than the commercial rate
presently used, providing increased restraint on imports and additional
revenue for the budget, (iii) to raise the interest rates to bring deposit
rates to the expected inflation rate for 1986, as an attempt to mobilize
domestic resources, and (iv) to increase petroleum prices monthly in order
to reach full import parity in April 1986 for gasoline and June 1986 for
diesel, and, in line with the objective to liberalize the economy,
authorize the private sector to import and distribute petroleum products.
Gasoline prices achieved full import parity in April 1986, and in May
diesel prices had achieved about 80 percent of full import parity.These and
other new measures are being considered in the context of proposed IDA and
and SFA/SJF credits for agricultural sector adjustment.
32.      The current exchange system is already providing considerable
incentives for exports, which are projected to increase by about 20 percent
in 1986. Remittances from Somali workers abroad are also significant when
consideration is given to the difficult labor conditions in the Gulf
States. However, in the short-term, it is not feasible to foresee



- 8 -
increases in export earnings of the magnitude necessary to close the
projected balance of payments gap for 1986, and for the next few years. At
the same time, the reduction in imports which has occurred since 1981 has
meant that further significant reductions in import volumes are likely to
have a very negative impact on economic activity and growth prospects.
Consequently, for the next few years Somalia must rely on special donor
assistance for achieving the objectives of its economic adjustment and
reform program and a sustainable balance of payments situation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
33.        Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$251 million,
consisting of 29 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Fourteen projects
are under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has
been for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. An agricultural inputs program and a livestock
health service project were approved in FY85. An IDA credit, supplemented
by the SFA and the SJF to total $70 million for agricultural sector
adjustment is to be considered for approval in June 1986. The IFC
investments in Scmalia are a US$375,000 loan for a molasses terminal for
the Juba Sugar Project and Sw. Fr. 1,550,000 for a polypropylene bag
project.
34.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Somalia
has been mixed. Some projects have suffered from over-ambitious design,
and co-financing arrangements have caused some difficulties. Progress of
the North West Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase I has been
good and the main production targets estimated at appraisal have been met
or exceeded. Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been more
successful than in the agricultural sector. Some IDA-financed projects
have experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management problems
have impeded effective preparation and implementation of projects.
35.       Somalia's disbursements performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY85 disbursement rate was 33.5
percent, as compared to 21.9 percent for Eastern and Southern Africa and
22.0 percent Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA Strategy
36.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, Improve pricing
administration and marketing systems, and to increase production and
exports. We aim to support further use of existing capacity end to help
lay the foundations for longer term growth. Issues in public enterprise
reform are expected to become an increasingly important component of our
policy dialogue, and we intend to support Government in its stated policy
of disposing of unviable public enterprises, and its stimulating the
private sector.



- 9 -
37.       We are giving particular attention to aid coordination and
management issues, and have undertaken an assessment of technical
assistance to Somalia jointly with the UNDP. An energy assessment has been
completed, as has a review of population, health and nutrition issues. A
collaborative review with the Government and donors of major issues in the
agricultural sector has been made with support from an SPPF. We are
cooperating with the Government in the preparation and review of
periodically updated public investment and expenditure programs, at both
the global and, increasingly, at the sector level. The Advisory Committee
for Juba Valley Development established by the Consultative Group at its
October 1983 meeting provides an important forum for review and
collaboration on issues affecting the development of Somalia's major water
resource. The most recent meeting of its Technical Committee, in which the
Bank played an active part, was in January 1986.
38.       In IDA's lending work, it Is planned to emphasize productive
investments and rehabilitation programs. An irrigation rehabilitation
project is being prepared to help increase productivity and farmer incomes
in the Shebelli Valley. Most projects have been cofinanced with a number
of other donors, and this is expected to continue in the future. For
example, an IDA commodity import program is being cofinanced by a grant
from Federal Republic of Germany, and IDA administers additional commodity
assistance on behalf of Italy. The economic and sector work program
strives to support the macroeconomic reform process, and to provide
analytical inputs for the work of the Consultative Group for Somalia.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
39.       IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid
flows to Somalia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about
the same level during the next several years. IDA obligations represent
about 12 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to
December 31, 1983. Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small
proportion of Somalia's total debt service obligations. In 1984, payments
to IDA were estimated at only about one percent of total debt service
payments for that year. This trend is expected to continue in the future.
Part III - The Transport System
General
40.       Somalia's transport infrastructure is limited, consisting of some
21,600 km of roads, three principal ports and four airports with paved
runways. There are no railways, pipelines or internal waterways, and
coastal shipping, once important, is now negligible. Roads are by far the
most important means of modern transport.



- 10 -
Transport Policy
41.       The Government of Somalia recognizes the vital role that adequate
transport facilities and services play In the development of the nation's
economy. Its objectives in transport are to ensure a regular supply of
fuel, spare parts and vehicles, to provide reliable transport services and
to Improve road moaintenance to reduce transport costs and protect its
assets. The role of the transport sector will be to maximize the provision
of transport services within the Government's financial, and in particular
foreign exchange constraints, by: (i) reducing costly reconstruction of the
paved road network through improved maintenance; (ii) achieving more
efficient use of road vehicles through improved maintenance and load
factors (probably through greater private sector involvement); (iii)
maintaining the foreign exchange earning capacity of the major ports; (iv)
improving the efficiency of port operations; and (v) reducing transport
costs in the distribution of goods through promoting and expanding coastal
shipping.
Organization
42.       The four ministries concerned with the transport sector are:  (i)
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) which, through its Civil Engineering
Department, is responsible for highway maintenance and for planning and
construction of highways, ports and airports: (ii) the Ministry of Land
and Air Transport which is responsible for road transport regulations
including vehicle registration and control, and for civil aviation through
its Civil Aviation Department; (iii) the Ministry of Ports and Marine
Transport which, through the Somali Ports Authority (SPA), is responsible
for uarine transport; and (iv) the Ministry of Interior which is
responsible for highway traffic control. Coordination is provided by the
State Planning Commission.
Highways
43.       Of the total road network 3,000 km are paved, 600 km are
gravelled and the rest are earth roads and tracks. The amount of gravel
and paved roads has increased significantly since 1976 from 1,800 km to
3,600 km in 1985. The coverage of the network, despite its density being
below the Eastern African average, is broadly adequate for the country's
present needs, though access to many areas remains very difficult. The
main problem, however, is the unsatisfactory standard and condition of the
roads. Despite considerable road upgrading in recent years, 85 percent of
the network is substandard, resulting in high vehicle operating costs.
Road construction and maintenance is relatively costly, due to longer
distances to carry water and crushed stone material for construction, and
in the case of gravel roads, the surface deterioration is faster than
normal in certain parts of the country, due to the harsh winds and
extremely dry conditions.
44.       All public roads in the country are suffering from lack of proper
maintenance. This is due to inadequate organization, shortages of skilled
and semi-skilled maintenance staff to carry out routine or periodic



- 11 -
maintenance, and the lack of adequate road maintenance equipment combined
with the fact that available resources are often diverted to other
activities. Funding of road maintenance operations falls far below what is
required and the capacity of the Civil Engineering Department (CED) is such
that even the small amounts belng allocated to road maintenance are seldom
fully utilized. Technical assistance and training programs for the Civil
Engineering Department of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) have been
financed through the Bank's Third and Fourth Highway Projects. The impact
of this assistance on improving the organization and execution of road
maintenance has been less than could have been expected. Under the Fourth
Highway Project, the Bank financed a road maintenance study whlch
recommended certain changes that should enable government to improve the
quality of road maintenance in general. The Bank also recently initiated
donor meetings in the country to seek better coordination of external
assistance in the road maintenance sector in Somalia.
Road Transport Industry
45.       Available data on fleet composition, age and condition indicate
that there were about 15,600 privately owned vehicles along with about
3,000 Government owned civilian vehicles in 1980 when the first systematic
data collection was made. Of the total vehicular fleet of 18,600, about 25
percent were medium to heavy trucks including buses, 40 percent pick-ups
and vans and the balance (35 percent) passenger cars including taxis. With
no rail service in the country, road vehicles carry most freight, with
animal portage in remote areas, and movement of livestock to market on the
hoof.
46.       The road transport industry is dominated by the private sector
which owns about 4,000 trucks (light and heavy) and handles over 75 percent
of the demand for the internal movement of goods. The rest of the regular
demand is met by the National Transport Agency (NTA) with its fleet of
about 290 trucks. NTA has incurred losses since its inception in 1978 and
is dependent on Government subsidies for fleet expansion and replacement.
Since an alternative transport system does not exist, it is imperative that
the growth of the road transport industry be fostered. However, the poor
road conditions, shortages of spare parts and of fuel, and seasonality of
demand for freight transport have rendeted the profitability of the
industry low. Furthermore, due to the lack of foreign exchange,
replacement of the trucking fleet has been slow. Most recently imported
trucks have either been for food aid transport or for aid financed
development projects. The average age of the vehicle fleet is estimated to
be 8 to 10 years.
Civil Aviation
47.       The air transport system in Somalia serves ten scattered regional
centers with Mogadishu as the focal point. Only the airports at Mogadishu,
Berbera, Kismayo and Hargeisa have paved runways and a scheduled passenger
service. Civil aviation has had an insignificant part of the Public Sector
Investment Programs (PIP) planned through 1988, though there has been a



- 12 -
recent bilateral proposal for improvements at Mogadishu airport. Somali
Airlines, established in 1964, operates one Fokker F27 aircraft and two
Cessnas on its domestic routes and two Boeing 707 aircraft on its
international routes which connect Mogadishu with Rome, Frankfurt, Cairo,
Nairobi, Djibouti, and various points on the Arabian Peninsula. Somali
Airlines is an autonomous parastatal under the department of Civil Aviation
of the Ministry of Land and Air Transport. Technical and management
assistance is provided by Lufthansa. A few foreign airlines link Somalia
with other African countries and Europe.
Ports
48.       Three major ports (with sheltered deep-water facilities) handle
practically all of Somalia's ocean transport. They are: (i) Mogadishu
which Imports much of the country's general cargo, and exports bananas;
(ii) Berbera which exports mostly livestock; and (iii) Kismayo which
exports bananas, livestock and seafood. Merca, a lighterage port which has
exported bananas in past years, has been virtually inactive since 1978 as a
result of the diversion of the banana traffic to Mogadishu. Most of
Somalia's international trade is handled by foreign vessels, supplemented
by vessels from the state-owned Somali Shipping Agency and Line which was
established in 1974. Transport by coastal shipping within Somalia is
limited despite the long coastline. Soon, however, a cement plant, now
under construction in Berbera, will send about 75,000 tons of its annual
output by ship to Mogadishu. Similarly, petroleum products from the
refinery near Mogadishu wilU be transported by a small tanker to Berbera
and Kismayo. Current development of commercial fishing is also expected to
stimulate some growth of coastal shipping because fish are to be
transported from a number of small ports to a few processing and
distributing centers, particularly Mogadishu and Berbera.
49.       The Somali Ports Authority (SPA) which is responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the country's ports was
created in 1962. Planning for the expansion and development of the ports
as well as the execution of the ports' infrastructural developments is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works while provision for the
financing of these projects is incorporated in the Government's Ceutralised
Capital Investment Budgets. Completed projects are handed over to SPA
ownership for the conduct of port operations. SPA falls under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Ports and Marine Transport. Although there
are certain restrictions imposed by the Government (primarily pertaining to
employment and transfers of staff, salaries and terms and conditions of
service, financial management and the distribution of operating surpluses)
SPA has sufficient powers to discharge its responsibilities except in the
financial area including its ability to obtain foreign exchange.
50.       SPA is facing a shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower
because of the exodus in large numbers of educated Somalis to the
neighbouring oil producing countries. Although the manpower drain has
halted because of the drop in oil earnings in the neighbouring countries,
it is unlikely that the public sector will be able to attract back into



- 13 -
service those who lef t for higher salaries. This exodus hbs resulted in
numerous positions in the organization being either unfilled or fliled with
inexperienced personnel. Out of a total regular employment of 802, only 24
form the managerial and professional group. The result is that effective
supervision is lacking and this is reflected in the day to day operations
at the ports. Cargo is handled and stored haphazardly and there are
frequent disputes over quantities, and condition of the cargo. SPA
management is weak in such areas as planning, information systems and
accounting and financial management. The project will inject new
techniques and practices in controlling and directing SPA's activities,
through training for all levels of SPA, as well as placement of operational
experts in key functions.
51.       In overcoming manpower and institutional constraints attention
should not be focussed only at the ports. Operations of peripheral port
organizations such as customs, shipping agents and forwarding agents and
trade practices and documentation which inhibit the development of trade
and the distribution of cargo out of the port will have to be improved,
up-dated and made compatible with current international shipping, trading
and transport practices and requirements. The shipping agency is a case in
point. Shipping agency work is being carried out in the country solely by
the Somali Shipping Agency and Line (SSAL). This monopolistic position
breeds certain inefficiencies which could be overcome if shipping agency is
open to competition. Various recommendations to improve the efficiency of
shipping agency work are being studied by the Government through a high
level committee. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government
will submit to IDA for review and approval a plan of action including a
timetable for implementation for opening up shipping agency work to private
interests which may include, but not be limited to, joint ventures of
foreign and local interests.
52.       All cargo operations, except for the delivery and receipt of
cargo at storage areas, are undertaken by SPA at all three ports using
daily labour from labour co-operatives. Cargo handling is labour
intensive. Labour productivity is low as a result of the lack of
mechanical handling equipment and the shortage of skilled cargo handlers.
The standard of maintenance or port facilities and equipment is poor and
workshop facilities are inadequate.
53.       Total import and export traffic through SPA ports fluctuated
considerably during the period 1978 to 1984, but, with an upward average
growth of 3.5 percent per annum. Total traffic was 1.1 million tons in
1984. Dry cargo throughput (i.e. excluding petroleum) increased at an
average annual growth rate of 3.2 percent with imports growing at 7 percent
per annum and exports declining at 8 percent per annum. The rapid import
growth reflects the significant volume of food aid imports and the
aid-assisted infrastructure development program. The precipitous decline
of dry cargo exports, (which constitute only 20 percent of dry cargo
traffic), was led by a major decline in the export of bananas (largely due
to the impact of Government price controls and drought) and livestock (due
to the impact of the drought and a ban on Somali livestock). As for



- 14 -
petroleum products, the total throughput has fluctuated around 200,000 tons
depending on the foreign exchange availability and commodity aid from oil
exporting countries. Of the total throughput of SPA ports, on average, 72
percent of the port traffic passes through the port of Mogadishu with 22
percent and 6 percent passing through the ports of Berbera and Kismaya
respectively. This composition reflects the relative importance of the
capital city as the main economic and population center of the country.
Past Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
54.       The World Bank group has been extensively involved in the
development of the transport sector in Somalia through the provision of IDA
credits for four highway and four port projects. The first involvement,
consisting of an initial credit (74-SO) approved in 1964 and a
supplementary credit (123-SO) in 1968 which totalled US$8.5 million, was
used along with co-financing funds primarily to construct the 216 km
Afgoi-Baidoa Road and to organize and improve the Civil Engineering
Department in NPW. The road construction was completed successfully in
1971 although a dispute developed between the Government and the contractor
which went to arbitration and was only recently settled. Notwithstanding
this problem, the project has had beneficial effects on the area served by
the road and on the nation generally. An economic re-evaluation in 1978 by
Bank staff in connection with a project completion audit confirmed the
soundness of the project.
55.       The Second Highway Project, financed by a US$9.6 million IDA
credit (295-SO) in 1972 and by funds from the African Development Bank, was
concerned largely with construction of the 158 km Hargeisa-Berbera Road.
Completed in 1975, the road has greatly facilitated the movement of
livestock from Hargeisa to the port of Berbera. A Bank staff economic
re-evaluation of the project in 1978 estimated a 36 percent economic
return. A Third Highway project provided a US$7.0 million IDA credit
(699-SO) in 1977 primarily to assist in extending the above road 132 km
westward from Hargeisa to Borama and Tug Wajale. Construction began in
January 1978. Due to hostilities in the area, the original contract was
terminated; a new reduced contract was awarded and 70 km. from Hargeisa to
Nabadid were completed in January 1985, 4-1/2 years later than the original
estimate. The project was cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Social and
Economic Development, the Islamic Development Bank and the African
Development Bank. A Bank staff economic re-evaluation of the project
(December 1985) showed 11% as compared to 24% estimated at appraisal. The
main reasons for the reduced ERR were (i) an 82% increase in per km
construction cost; and (ii) lower than expected traffic due to the drought
(lower livestock traffic) and lower economic activity in the area. The
training and technical assistance program was unsuccessful in achieving its
targets due mainly to: (a) no financial incentive for the local
counterpart staff; (b) transfer of staff; and (c) certain cases of
unsatisfactory performance by the consulting firms. A Fourth Highway
Project, financed by IDA (US$23 million), the Arab Fund (US$16.3 million)
and Government (US$4.2 million), was signed in 1983. The major civil works
component involving rehabilitation of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed



- 15 -
in October 1985, although reduced in scope due to the suspension of the
loan from the Arab Furd following the Government's inability to meet debt
service obligations on other outstanding loans. The technical assistance
component and the urgent maintenance component are continuing, and the
project closing date is September 1987.
56.       Port project financing began in 1964 with a technical assistance
grant of US$311,000 followed in 1969 by a credit (55-SO) of US$550,000 for
engineering and accounting consultancy services. Although a major
Mogadishu Port Project was first identified in 1964 it took nine years to
put the project together because of lack of donor funds and political
changes in the country. In 1973, these preparations resulted in a US$12.9
million IDA credit (359-SO) which, together with an EDF grant of US$12.5
million, financed the construction of the sheltered deep-water harbor of
Mogadishu, consisting of a breakwater, two general cargo berths, a
livestock berth and a banana berth, sheds and other facilities. In 1975,
during execution of this project, a third IDA credit (586-SO) for
US$5.2 million was approved for an additional general cargo berth and
corresponding extension of the breakwater. The original Mogadishu Port
Project and its extension (Cr. 586-SO) were completed in 1977, about six
months behind schedule. The physical execution of the project was plagued
with disputes arising from numerous claims advanced by the contractor.
These claims were eventually settled without resort to arbitration. The
breakwater, however, experienced subsidence problems. A Bank staff
economic re-evaluation in 1979 indicated an economic return of 17 percent
which is slightly higher than that estimated during reappraisal in
connection with the project extension. During execution of the project it
became evident that there were fundamental weaknesses in SPA such as the
scarcity of skilled staff and the poor use made of them, and that, to
overcome these deficiencies, substantial additional efforts were required
in future projects. The Fourth Port Project, approved by IDA in July 1978
for a USS5.5 million credit, consisted of construction of a tanker pier and
related facilities for handling crude oil tankers and small products
tankers. Bids were received on November 21, 1979. However, the lowest bid
was substantially higher than the appraisal estimate, and a decision was
made to extend the banana berth and construct a ro-ro ramp instead. The
project was completed in July 1983. A project Completion Report prepared
in December 1985 showed that: (i) ERR was re-evaluated at 34 percent
compared to 21 percent estimated at appraisal; and (ii) financially, SPA
showed much better results than were projected, enabling SPA to pay large
dividends to the Government.
Bank Group Strategy in the Ports Subsector
57.       Assistance provided to the Somali Ports Authority (SPA) thus far,
including the four port projects financed by the Bank, has concentrated
predominantly on infrastructural development at the three major ports of
Mogadishu, Berbera and Kismayo. Limited assistance in cargo handling
equipment was provided from time to time by various sources, and technical
assistance, including training, was provided on an ad hoc basis.



- 16 -
Part IV - The Project
58.       The Project was identified in May 1984 and appraised in
September 1985. A report entitled "Somalia: Staff Appraisal Report - Port
Modernization Project," No.6097 dated April 30, 1986 is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington on April 15-20, 1986.
The Somali delegation was led by Mr. Ahmed Hagi Ali Adani,General Manager
of SPA.
Project Objectives and Description
59.       The Project is a continuation of IDA's long involvement in the
development of Somalia's ports, particularly of Mogadishu. Its main
objective is to enable SPA to introduce modern port management and
operations through a phased mechanization program as well as comprehensive
training for all levels of port staff. It is based on the Somali Ports
Master Plan Study initiated under the Fourth Port Project with financing
from the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). The study,
finished in 1985, reviewed the infrastructure requirements of the three
major ports for the next 20 years and recommended a phased mechanization
program along with a comprehensive training and technical assistance
program. It is the first of its kind to provide a coordinated and
comprenhensive modernization program for SPA.  It will help improve cargo
handling capacity and performance at the three major ports of Mogadishu,
Berbera and Kismayo by introducing appropriate systems and procedures in
cargo handling and port management to meet the current needs of cargo
handling operations.  The phased mechanization program will enable SPA to
handle increasing volume and types (e.g. containers) of cargo without undue
congestion or large investments for additional berths; the technical
assistance and training will enable SPA to maximize the use of the new
equipment to improve its operational efficiency. The Project also provides
operational experts for SPA. This is a new endeavor in Somalia and is
aimed at the transfer of modern port management and operations expertise to
SPA in a short span of time.
60.       The Project consists of:
(a)  Procurement of cargo handling, office, training, and
workshop equipment, pallets, refurbishing of old equipment
and equipment for the dry-docking of tugs;
(b)  Port improvement (civil) works:
(i) Paving of the container yard at Mogadishu;
(ii) Provision of fenders for wharves at Mogadishu;



- 17 -
(iii) Construction of container freight stations at Mogadishu
and Berbera;
(iv) Construction of a ro-ro ramp at Mogadishu;
(v) Construction of workshops and stores at Mogadishu
and Kismayo; and
(vi) Construction of the port training school at Mogadishu.
(c) Rectification of breakwater subsidence at Mogadishu;
(d) Training and technical assistance for SPA;
(e) Consultant services for:
(i) supervision, including assistance in equipment
procurement, of (a), (b) and (c); and
(ii) a study of transport development including the role
of coastal shipping and minor ports.
Cargo Handling, Office Training, and Workshop Equipment
61.       Containers are increasingly being handled by roll-on/roll-off
C"ro-ro") facilities, whereby they can be moved straight from the hold to
the quay through special doors without having to be lowered over the side
by cranes or ship's gear. The provision of the equipment recommended for
the Project will allow SPA to cope with the form in which cargo is
increasingly being handled (containers, ro-ro, pre-palletised unit loads)
but will also result in the reduction in the general cargo gang size by 33
percent (from 30 men to 21 men). This will enable SPA to reduce the
engagement of temporary workers from the labor cooperatives. SPA will
reduce the gang composition by January 1987. The project will provide SPA
with cargo handling equipment to cater for only part of the traffic. The
rest of the traffic will be handled by private sector interests which will
provide their own equipment, personnel and supervisors. As a condition for
credit effectiveness, SPA will enter into arrangements satisfactory to IDA
whereby selected major international shipping lines may undertake
container/ro-ro operations within a defined area set aside for this purpose
in the port of Mogadishu. Government has confirmed that specific areas
nave been assigned to two private sector interests to undertake
container/ro-ro operations at the port of Mogadishu and that negotiations
between SPA and such interests were in progress. In order to realize the
benefits of the project, SPA has set performance targets which will improve
its cargo handling efficiency by: (i) 65 percent for general cargo; (ii) 45
percent for bagged cargo, and (iii) 50 percent for containers. In
addition, targets for cargo handling equipment availability have been
set at 75 percent, and shipwaiting time at one day within three years of
the delivery of the new equipment. These targets are realistic.



- 18 -
Port Improvement and Civil Works
62.       Ports throughout the world have no choice but to become equipped
to handle containers and pre-palletised loads which are rapidly becoming
the dominant means of handling dry cargo. In view of the complete lack of
basic facilities for container handling in all three ports, the Project
provides for the paving of a container yard (31,400 m2) at Mogadishu;
construction of container freight stations at Mogadishu (6750 m2) and
Berbera (1260 m2); construction of a ro-ro ramp at Berth 4, Mogadishu;
construction of workshops and stores at Mogadishu (1060 m2) and Kismayo
(310 m2) and provision of fenders for the wharves at Mogadishu. In
addition, a port training school will be constructed at Mogadishu.
Rectification of Breakwater Subsidence at Mogadishu
63.       The breakwater at Mogadishu Port was constructed during 1975 and
1976 under the Second Port Project with financing from EDF, and since then
some 68 separate instances of subsidence have occurred over the 770. length
of the breakwater adjacent to the storage area behind the quay.
Subsidence was first observed during the construction period in 1975 and
despite repairs and changes in the design, the subsidence persisted.
Consultants who undertook a study on the causes of the subsidence between
September 1981 and January 1983 pointed out that a collapse of the filter
layers is unpredictable and recommended two alternative solutions for early
implementation: (i) drive an interlocking steel sheet-pile through the
core at an appropriate distance from the concrete superstructure and with
improved ventilation to reduce the build-up of entrapped air pressure; or
(ii) install an adequate protective filter of synthetic filter cloth for
the length of the breakwater. Due to shortage of funds, the Governmant of
Somalia/SPA have not yet been able to execute the remedial works. The
steel sheet-pile alternative is considered to be the most practical and
economical solution and will be adopted for the Project.
Training and Technical Assistance
64.       The transformation of port operations from lighterage to
alongside berth has not been followed by appropriate and systematic changes
in cargo handling systems and procedures. The provision of 126 man months
of operational experts in key positions will enable SPA to introduce proper
systems and procedures in port operation, maintenance of equipment and
improved financial management. The Project will also provide for 36 man
months of training experts whose main task will be to train and develop
local instructors. A new port training school will be built under the
Project. Arrangements will also be made for training of Somali port
personnel at: (i) Bandari College in Mombasa; (ii) the Vocational Training
Institute at Mogadishu which was developed with the assistance of GTZ; and
(iii) the Somali Institute for Development, Administration and Management
(SIDAM). To ensure that the training effort started by the Project will be
sustained, SPA will establish and thereafter maintain a Training Fund by
setting aside a proportion of its revenue each year (by April 1 of each



- 19 -
year) to finance the annual training budget equivalent to 0.5 percent of
its previous years gross revenue in 1987, 1.0 percent for 1988, and 1.5
percent for 1989 and thereafter. Establishment of such a fund will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Consultant Services
65.       Consultants will be engaged for the purpose of supervising port
improvement (civil) works and rectification of breakwater subsidence, as
well as equipment procurement. Consultants will also be engaged to
undertake a study on future transport development which will examine the
transport network and distribution pattern of the country, the role of
coastal shipping and the minor ports and the institutional and legal
framework relating to international trade, shipping and transportation with
a view to instituting appropriate changes and reforms. The terms of
reference for the study were discussed and agreed with Government during
negotiations.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
66.       The total cost of the Project, including contingency allowances,
is estimated at US$24.4 million net of taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies to cover unforeseen quantity increases are calculated at 10
percent of base costs for all items except the rectification of the
breakwater subsidence where a 20 percent provision has been made. Price
contingencies to provide for anticipated cost increases over the
implementation period are based on price increases of 7.2 percent in 1986,
6.8 percent each in 1987 and 1988, 7 percent in 1989, 7.1 percent in 1990
and 4 percent in 1991 through 1994. The international rates have also been
used for local costs on the assumption that the difference between domestic
and international price inflation will be offset by adjustments in the
foreign exchange rate. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$22.6 million.
67.       The proposed IDA credit will finance the entire foreign exchange
component of the Project. The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the
IDA credit to SPA, with an annual interest rate of 12 percent, 15 years
repayment including five years grace.. SPA will bear the foreign exchange
risk. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and SPA, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Local costs of the project, estimated at US$1.8 million, will be met by
SPA.
Implementation and Procurement
68.       Implementation of the civil works component of the Project will
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works assisted by SPA which
has set up a Project Planning Unit for the purpose. Procurement of goods
and services, other than civil works, will be the responsibility of SPA
aided by consultants. The implementation period for the project is
estimated at 8 years based on past experience with Bank/IDA financed
projects in the port subsector.



- 20 -
69.       The new cargo handling and workshop equipment will be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines with separate contracts for each type or group of similar types
of equipment. Refurbishing of old equipment and dry-docking of tugs will
be procured following limited international bidding procedures. Port
improvement (civil) works and the rectification of breakwater subsidence
will be procured under unit price contracts with separate contracts for
each following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines with eligible domestic bidders being awarded a price preference
of 7.5 percent. Consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. Additionally, SPA has agreed that during the project
implementation period, no other capital expenditure beyond the equivalent
of US$500,000 per year will be undertaken without the concurrence of IDA.
SPA will submit quarterly progress reports to IDA and, not later than six
months after the project closing date, a project completion report, in a
form satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement
70.       All requests for disbursement will be fully documented.  Proceeds
of the IDA funds are to be disbursed against the various categories as
follows:
(i) Cargo handling, office, training and workshop equipment: 100
percent of foreign expenditures;
(ii) Refurbishing of old equipment and dry-docking of tugs: 100
percent of foreign expenditures;
(iii) Port improvement (civil) works: 82 percent of total
expenditures;
(iv) Rectification of breakwater subsidence: 90 percent of total
expenditures; and
(v) Consultancy services: 100 percent of foreign expenditures.
Financial Structure and Performance
71.       The financial performance of SPA for the period 1979 to 1984
appears satisfactory, although achieved largely at the cost of significant
inefficiencies in port operations. The working ratio was broadly
maintained at a satisfactory level between 1979 and 1983 and improved
substantially in 1984 as a result of the combined effect of a tariff
increase implemented in 1983 and the recovery of cargo throughput from the
depressed levels of 1983. SPA's liquidity remained good throughout the
period with the current ratio improving from 1.5 in 1979 to 1.9 in 1984
despite cumulative remittances of So.Sh 455 millions in corporate taxes and
dividends to the Government out of cumulative cash generation of So.Sh 619
million between 1979 and 1984. This apparently satisfactory performance,
however, masks the serious deterioration in SPA's financial performance in
real terms over the period. The apparently good financial performance
together witb inadequate accounting capabilities within SPA inhibited the



- 21 -
revision of tariffs in line with domestic inflation over the period.
Tariffs have been revised only three times between 1977 and early 1985 1/
and have only partially offset underlying increases in operating and
capital costs. By 1985, shipside tariffs 2/, payable wholly in US
dollars, had declined by 46 percent in dollar terms on the 1977 levels (an
Increase of only 158 percent in So.Sh terms compared to cumulative domestic
inflation of about 900 percent over the period). Shore handling charges
payable in domestic currency increased by only 60 percent over the period.
Only stevedoring charges, payable partly in domestic currency, have been
largely maintained in US dollar terms and even this represents a
significant erosion in real terms. Against this background, the real
return on net fixed assets declined from around 16 percent in 1979 to zero
in 1984 3/ as compared to the nominal return in 1984 of 48 percent.
Respectable working ratios were achieved largely at the cost of severe
compression in real wages and salaries with attendant adverse consequences
for labour productivity and morale.
72.       Moreover, despite the significant erosion in shore handling
charges, SPA has had to devote a significant and increasing proportion of
its free cash flow to financing the indebtedness of other state agencies
and civil service departments to it on account of shore handling services.
As a result, debtors as a proportion of turnover increased from 41 percent
in 1979 to 62 percent in each of the years 1980, 1981 and 1982 and declined
thereafter to 53 percent in 1983 and further to 42 percent in 1984, largely
because the December 1982 tariff increases heavily favoured prompt payment
by vessel owners and their agents. Finally, despite its status as one of
the country's major foreign exchange earners, SPA has experienced
increasing difficulties in acquiring foreign currency to meet its routine
capital expenditure and spares requirements because of the country's severe
foreign exchange shortage and the Government's strict rationing of
available foreign exchange. This has severely affected the serviceability
of equipment and led to concommitant declines in overall port productivity.
However, since timely and assured access to foreign exchange will be
particularly important under increased capital intensity of port
operations, Government has confirmed that SPA will open and maintain until
the completion of the project an external foreign currency account in which
it will deposit a sufficient proportion of its foreign currency revenues to
meet its requirements for spare parts and other foreign currency expenses.
Establishment by SPA of an external account will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
73.     The projections for the period 1985 to 1995 indicate a material
improvement in SPA's working performance. The working ratio improves from
1/   In 1977 when the tariff structure was established; in December 1982;
and in January 1985.
2/   Comparisons are based on Mogadishu port tariffs; however, tariff
increases have been based on proportionate increases which are uniform
for the 3 major ports.
3/   Based on the revaluation of fixed assets undertaken in December 1984
as part of the Master Plan Study.



- 22 -
an estimated 38 percent in 1985 to an average of about 17 percent p.a.
between 1990 and 1995. As a result, cash generation is strong with
cumulative cash generated amounting to So.Sh 14,785 million over the
projection period 1985 to 1995. The projections are also based on
assumption that from 1986, debtors at year-end will represent 17 percent
of turnover. Currently, outstanding indebtedness of Government departments
and parastatals to SPA has been running at 42 percent of cash turnovers. A
plan for the phased reduction of such overdue debt was reviewed during
negotiations and confirmation of such plan will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Debt service coverage is also satisfactory over the
projection period which Includes the first year after full Project
implementation. To safeguard this position, agreement has been reached
with SPA that no additional debt will be contracted if this will lead to a
debt service cover of less than four. SPA has agreed to set its tariffs to
achieve a rate of return of 5 percent per annum on its net fixed assets in
use from 1989, and draw up a three year plan to implement a phased
structural tariff increase program by March 31, 1987. Port tariffs will be
reviewed by SPA and the Government semi-annually from 1989 and adjusted as
necessary to meet the financial objectives.
Accounts and Audit
74.       SPA will submit annual audited accounts to IDA within 9 months of
the close of its financial year for the financial years 1987 and 1988 and
within seven months after the end of its financial year thereafter. To
enable SPA to meet these deadlines, agreement has been reached with the
Ministry of Finance that SPA will be permitted to fully implement the more
detailed Uniform Accounting System required to be adopted by all
Government-owned enterprises on a phased basis. The annual accounts are
audited by the Magistrate of Accounts. This is acceptable to IDA.
Justification
75.       The need for some degree of mechanization is a response to the
changing form in which cargo is being shipped and handled
(containerization and ro-ro vessels) and also to the need to improve the
cargo handling rate for conventional cargo. Containerization and ro-ro
unit loads have increased in Somalia in recent years. Apart from the
physical benefits derived from improved alongside operations, the larger
longer-term benefit to SPA is the institutional development to equip SPA to
cope with the more sophisticated port operations and management systems
which come with progressive mechanization. A phased mechanization program
with a parallel training program for all levels of port staff, as presented
in this Project, will allow SPA to mechanize more port operations and will
provide it with the capacity to handle greater voluces of traffic as well
as cope with new forms of cargo handling brought about by advances in
shipping technology.  In analyzing the net economic benefits of the
operational improvements, investments relating to container/ro-ro operation
have been distinguished from those relating to general/bagged cargo
operations. The costs of training and technical assistance were
proportionately allocated to each of the investment packages. Economic
analysis of the breakwater rectification works on the other hand was not
carried out because the benefits (i.e., the replacement cost of the
breakwater - estimated at US$38.63 million) far outweigh the investment



- 23 -
required to rectify the problem (US$3.52 million including physical
contingency).   7he overall economic rate of return for the project
(excluding breakwater rectification works) is 32 percent with various
individual investments ranging from about 21 percent to 46 percent. When
the sensitivity of the various investment packages was tested, it was found
that a 50 percent Increase in cost and zero traffic growth reduced the
economic rate of return to a range of 10 percent to 21 percent.
Project Risks
76.       One risk is that the even modest growth in traffic forecast will
not materialize. This, however, has been taken into consideration through
the  no traffic growth  scenario in the sensitivity analysis.  The second
risk is a cost increase. Although the possibility of a cost increase
exists, the probability of costs substantially exceeding the estimates is
not likely in this project. All three ports have had major construction
works in recent periods and have good cost data, and these form the basis
upon which the costs of civil works under the project are estimated. The
third risk is that the increase in productivity targetted for the project
as a result of the investments in cargo handling equipment and
institutional development will not materialize even at the modest rate
projected. This possibility is being minimized by formulating the project
to provide a comprehensive training program with heavy reliance on courses
and materials developed by institutions with proven track records in
training (e.g. UNCTAD, SIDAM and the GTZ sponsored Industrial Vocational
Training Center in Mogadishu).
Part V - Recommendation
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Attachments
June 2, 1986
Washington, D.C.                                  A. W. Clausen, President



l;
i3



- 25 -
Annex I
nLL.LLL                                             fir x  o'f 7
2336?                    tlO T   cmn IIT IMlATU )
1lt  .T  a      W  135  AlKCOA                   ow am
am  cu          14m. u)
TUTAL                               S3.?7      C37.7       627.1
AfGRCULTURAL                      m2.          234,7       199.7
W   -  win (on)                         ..          ..        250.0              alum                     auuz.
now  cm-- l Wm u Ia  wST
(KLUMO U Of oLL MbUSVALaNT)         11.0        43.0        63.0               eLI                      561.5
NEWSan m urn iunas
PUInAlOM,-NfAISA  (maci.e)    2050.0          >LO 3062.0o.
01316 NohfIAIW  CS - TOTAL)         17.3        23.1        32.3               20.1                      32.u
macane uarcru 
POPWATIU iX RA& 2000 C*eLL)                                6.5
STATIDE*T POIUATIU CULL)                                  21.0
PUoLATOU  KNOW=                                            1.9                 .
P0PULTIOU 033525
Pit Iq. a.                         3.L         I.          3.0               33.2                     65.a
PwR fa. M. AGtR. MU                3.2        I 1.1       16.5              112.3                    126.
POPULATION Au BTECIUZ (3)
0-14 1U                           44.7       '7.5        A.e                4C.0                      A5.e
15-64 13                          52.0        30.5        52.5               50.6                     51.3
CS no *A313                        2.?         1.3         LU                 2.9                       2.7
rOUeTtOIw cROWN 3A*1 CS)
TOTAL                                          3.5         3.0                2.6                       2.9
ISiS                               A.9         6.3          .6 C.               J.1
COOK 13D 3AT& (PER THOM)            50.2        50.1         W.O               07.2                     '7.0
co   DRAT3 RATZ (M  THOU)           20.         26.8        20.3               17.6                     15.0
=00  3W108 tn  *T12 3.2                         3.2         3.2                3.3                       s.2
P4301. PLANNINGu
ACCPSORY. ANNA  (TNOU)              .
nIn  (I 30 ARRID VO1)              ..          ..          2.0                3.3                      a..
INDI OF F00D PR. MR CAPITA
t1969-71-100)                       97.0       100.0        60.0               83.3                      U2.9
P   CSOA   UPPLY OP
CALCUlI (2 Cs or 3   0iQUST)      7L.0       71.0         94.0               $7.7                     95.5
vinnua (Sm    ra DAY)             07.0        61.0        68.0               ii.,                     55.4
or 50  AMIAL Ago POLS            47.0        40.0        38.0 /t      10.7                           2I.5
C31t8 CAmS 1-4) WAIN AU             30.9        25.1        30.0               23.1                     10.6
-3T
Lln SUIT. AT SRS1  MASS)            35.0        37.2        AA.5               47.6                     52.0
In,Ar INW. RATM (PU TROS)          175.0       156.5       142.0              119.5                    106.6
ACIM TO SAM AATt (RIOP)
TOTAL                               ..         15.0       33.0 /d            27.1                      42.L
UA                                 ..         17.0        50  7;r            63.5                     67.5
RomUL                              ..         10.0        21.3               19.3                     35.6
ACCS TO KICRITA DISOAL
(t OW CPOPULATKON)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                26.5                      28.9
UAW                                ..          ..          ..                65.4                     57.7
RUL.                               ..          ..          ..                20.1                      20.7
FOHOIATIW PM PTICIUI             36570.0    26230.0    15630.0 ft           27901.7                   11791.7
PM. PRE  OMI5NG PERIOD             0610.0     4570.0      2550.0             3303.4                   2459.0
prOW. I NsPrxTAL a
TOTA                             690.0       710.0       000.0 kt          1273.6                     l61.1
133A                             140.0       300.0         ..               426.2                     30.6
RURAL                            5040.0     7900.0         ..              329.5                     4371.9
AmuiaSz    PS HOSPTAL SO            ..          ..          ..                 ..                      27.2
0=00
AWlS! 523Z 0F IIOUSAIOL
TOTAL                              ..          ..
mU                                 ..          ..          .                   ..
KR AL                              ..          ..          5.5/.
AV2UCC No. or MIUoUs/lm
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                 ..                         .
m          ~..                        ..          .                   ..
RUR                                 ..         ...
nucuc or mase unit tier:.
ToTAL                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
RAL                                ..          ..           .                  ..



- 26 -
Annex I
T A h L s  3f                                      Page  2  of  7
SOMALIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHKET
SOIIALIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WIGHTED AvWRAGeS) /a
DnsT                     (MOST RCFA1T StAIA) A
RECENT         LUW ENCOHC AFRICA         RIDDLE IN1OME
196dt       wt7U   ESTIRIATA         SOUtH OF bANANA      AnIUCA S. UF SAHARA
EDUIATION
ADJUSTED ENNOLUIENT RATIOS
PRtlrARY:  TOTAL                   9.0        11.0       JU.U Id            67.d                     95.7
MALE                   13.u        17.0       38.0 7             77.6                     10W.O
FIIIAL .                5.0         5.U       z1.o 7d-           54.9                     o3.2
SICONDARY: TOTAL                   I.U        5.0        11.0 Id            13.5                     17.3
MALE                    2.0         o.U       1.0 71r           17.9                      Z5.0
FEMALE                  ..          2.0        6.0 Id             9.1                     14.6
VOCATIONAL (2 UP SECONDARf)         .6.4        3.1        17.h Id            13.2                      5.S
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                           29.0       33.0        33.0 Id            44.9                     41.1
SECONDARY                        20.0        24.0         2l.0 __           27.4                     25.5
COllSUlPTIO
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP          1.1        2.0         ..                 3.8                     Z0.8
RADIO RF.CSIVERS/THOUSASD PoP       Q.q        14.4        Z5.9              55.8                     107..
TV RECFIVERSlTHOUSAND P0P            ..         ..          ..                 2.6                     20.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") Cl RCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            0.8         1.4         ..                 5.0                     18.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANECAPITA       0.6         1.4         ..                 0.5                      0.4
LABOR FoRCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         1007.0     1331.0      1815.0
FEKALe (PERCENT)                 29.4        29.o        28.0               34.2                     36.2
AGRtCULTURE (PERCENT)            88.0        H5.0        82.0 Id            77.5                     54.5
iNDuSTRY (PERCENT)                4.0         6.0         6.0 7d            9.7                      16.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCETr)
TOTAL                             41.1       38.5        35.7               39.3                     36.8
hALE                              58.7       55.2        52.3               50.9                     47.1
FEMLE                             23.9       22.0        2u.6               28.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DSPENDENCY RATIO            1.2        1.3         1.3                1.3                      1.3
InwqE DISYRmUTDO
PEk.-T OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
HIGNEST ZO OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LIUEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOuSEHOLDS           ..
POUNRX  TACT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOMe
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        150.0 Ie           165.5                    5YO.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        110.0 7'           95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCXAE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..         65.0 /a           113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..          ..         50.0 7             67.6                    201.1
ESTIMATED POP. b-LIN ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                              ..         ..         40.0 /a            36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..         70.0 7            61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
tNOT APPLICABLE
/a  The group average* for each ndic-ator are population-eighted arithmetic mans. Ceverqe of camatrie
aong the indicator, depends an availability of data and ie not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" beten
1969 and 1971; and data for Moast Recent Estiete" betwasn 1981 and 1983.
Ic  1977: /d 1980; /e 1978.
JUNE. 1915



- 27 -
Annex I
aSi 3 of 7
DUINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Now Alkul she data am drwn (n nwmt pulny judhd h mass sulsorntau've an rUmble. it ould Mo be naoad that they lmey  i l inmunIly
ompeabl. hen at die lack at o aIdmd ddaiian an concgpseR aN by dent gountnu in callnag th dais Tle dat au nesls. ssd is
d       oide,.o A plude. i*ige treads d  b_raeren c tatm mqaor difatm  bmn  meOuntn
The u*nu,tsttti (I IbC gamecoumny, pup at ti sujel comsry an ill counsuy pm   uhaneashgha  erezP  am  sha ite countbsry
rnefc u dle _ceus fr Nih Inrm Oi1 Espomwa' sup wht -dMd Income dnk Abus and Midl Es I1 rshe_ bsaueotsraenr
_Iassltural edlsi.l to sh et.c group dau the asmps an populeaon waghod anthmac mam far mau indator *md dsho ally when injonty
a sfhe counies ins croMup au dau (or thkt mnrasor. Slince she cowms oreausitn among gik uredian depends on se avallahiNy odea and Is nue uniomLs
ensun mwiuas he ismrcnd in rNutng avemaoneo e iscator  aothrt    s esga arce nly useful in canpng she *uetfean dicaniac5fit a Inn amiw
she country    rucem groups.
AREA (thound sq.km. I                                          Crude girh lae t pe etknseudD-Numiber of live births in th yer
hed-Totua surface arma compnung land ara and inland waten;     per thousnd of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      CMe Death Rae (per thwasdi-Number of death in the yer 
AgEil     imkno-Estinam  at agricultural arA usd temporarily or  per thousnd of mid-year populsaon; 1960. 1970. and 1981 data
pa      ty rrops Lpaatureu. market and kitch    rdens or to  G        e     ssR   e- rgumb   otda               a woa
le fallow. 1960.1970 nd 1912 dta.                              will bear in her normal reproducive period if  e epeiencs
prement agepecific ertility rtes: usually five-year averg  ending
GNP PER CAPffA (USS).-NP per capita estimus at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prni   caculated by same converion method - World       Family Platsala-AeNpmv, Amel  r_hamduj-Annual num-
lusA Atlas (191143 basis): 983 dea.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devic  under auspic of national
LNEGY CONSlUMYTON PER CAPA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial prmary energy (coal and lignite.     Fam*PlAwmi-Vssrs (par*n sifmrA inven)-The pencen-
peaoum    ural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal alec-    tag of married womn  of chilkd-bering agw who ar practicing or
ticigy) in kilogrm  of oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. nd  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1912 dau                                                       of child-bearing ag are gnally women agd 15-9. although for
some countries contractive usag  is meamured for other age
POPULATON AND VITAL sTATISncs                                 groups.
Ta,u ftpanle . Mid- Yaw (thisawaaea-As of July 1;1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTUMON
and 1913 data.
1moitf Fo         *e WarPr Capit  1 -1- I -OlInde of per
psIa.  dyukad    t efurcid of rrbat  Rareo of urana to total   capita  u  production of all food commoditai  Production
pbui;of damiamng definition  16 u 970a and 1983 daue   mxduda animl fead and   d for agriculture. Food commodiias
abiityof ataamog cunties196. 170.and191 daa.include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcnane instd of sugani
-_ubdm pn adm                                                  which are edible and contan nutrients leg. collee and tea we
- puksil in yew 2000-The projection of popuhltion for 2000.    excluded) they compie cereal root cropL pul  oi seeds.
made for each economy spartely. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits nutL sugarane and sugar bets. lietock, and
total populaion by age and sex. feratlity rates mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
in     oa  mirion in the bae year 1910. thes pazmms            on nutnal avep  producer pnce weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
ware projected at five-year intervals on the basis of eneralized  9192 data
aumpom   until the population becam  sttioaory                 P  CaM Sap$y of CalM. ,ereaC  of raqilmis.ni-C omput-
S'ltvpei puiari-ls one in which age- and sx-specific mor-      ed from calorie equivalent oAnet food supplie available in country
tality rae have not chaned over a long perio  while age-specic  per capit per day. Available supplie comprise domestic produc-
fetility rams have smultanously remamed at replment level      lion, imports less exports and change  in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In uch a population. the birth rate is  exdude animul feed, seeds for use in ariculture. quantitin used in
constat and equal to the deab rae the age structure is also    food procesinsg and losses in distribuion  Requiremnts wre
consnL and the growth rate is mo. The stauonay population      estimated by FAO baed on physiological needs for normal acti'ity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charerisi  of  and health considering environmnental temperature. body weights.
the populato  in the vear 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replcement level.                                      wasteat housebold level: 1961.1970 and 1982 data.
Pbparon Momsrwum-ls the tendency for population growth to      Ar Capm Sppy of Porei. (sras per Aeyi-Proiein content of
continue beyond the tane that replacment-level fertility has been  per capit re supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that iL even after the net reproduction rate ha rached  as above. Requiments for all countus establisbed bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowancest of 60 grms of toul protein per
a rato of the ulimate uaonry population to the populaton in    day and 20 pAis of animal ad pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the yer r. gv  the asumption       fertility remains at replace.  should be anmal protein. Thae standards.are lower than those of
mnt level from year t onward 1985 data.                        75 grams of toul protein and 23 grms of animal protn as an
A,e.. DEniMy                                                   average for the world, proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer t100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.                PAr Capit      h eNM   Surpply bam Ahimd and hPLfee-Protein suppl)
Per .qknt. agnaahral id-Computed as above for agricultural     of rood derived from aninmsh and pulses in grams perday; 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data
Papelttl  Age Swtra   (Parerverij-Cbildren (0-14 yeas). work-  Ckid (ae 1-4) DOeat Rate (per rhoaaadm-Number of deaths of
inae(15-64yea) and recred t65 yearsand over) as perentage      children aged 1-4 yea  per thousand chldren in the sane age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 d                 gproup in a given year. For most developing countrines data deived
*    Papufrio. C-owkh Rate fpa nrw-rral---Annuai growth rates of  fronm ife tabes 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-10. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
_bpaioi GCrt Rare (percemrj-ha--Annual growth rats             Life Ercrtary of ih (yeari-Number of years a neborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 28 -
Anrnex I
Page 4 of 7
as the me of of it binh we  to stay the sn- throughout iu lilf  R$Al,tnr Ratio *priwy. and aeedasry-Toal students en-
1964 1970 and 1913 data.                                     ro  id in pnary and sconday  vels divided by number of
.'lw Mmndty Rat (per thm.adi-Number or infanu who de          teche rn the coeponding laveL
befo rocino g on y.r or ae per thouusnd ive births in a given
yer, 190.1970 d  1983 dat.                                    CONSU.PTION
Am  t o* SI         (pev fw   qf ml I  i-eA    Wk.  aid        Ae  Cms (per shamd pepalladew-Passrng   can com-
nreJ-Numxbr of people tot!a  tenta    rur l) with resnable    prim motor can  ating les than eight pesns: excludes ambul-
acces t   rsf water supply (;clude tretd surface waten or     ances. hears and militry vehicles.
unotated but uncontaminated wster such as thu from protected  RegSo Rftwm   (er ptheusmudpapaisele-All typs at receiven
boeolebs sprin sd saniary weds) es pecnta  of their rpec-     for radio broadcast to genad public per thousand of population:
tive popultion. In an urban are a public fountain or stadpoK  exclude un-lk eud receivers in countno and in yen when
lod not more than 200 mc.ers from a houn may be conddetd     ristration of radio st wu In effec dau for recent years may
as bgny within rsonablk  ar  of tht hour  In rural area       not be comparable sice most countries abolished lieing.
rmsonable acce would imply that ts housewif or members of te
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportonae pet of the day  rVhedvw f  er tkwaudpephultim -TV reevers for broadcast
in felctin th faily's water rns                              to gaI pubic per thousand populauin excludes unlice     TV
acem  . Earm D_pmd fpovmt of                                  rnvers o in cuntries and in r when epstrmaon of TV ses was
_  mrue-Number of pople (totaL urban, and rural) serve by     in
cen disposal as pecentage of their respaive pouNeper Ch'eluum (per .hossondpepubslows--Sbows the aver-
Ecta diposl may include the colbecion and disposaL with or    4ae rcuiation of "daily general intmet newspapesn defined as a
without treatmtet. of human excret and waste-water by water-  PIOdiOi publicaion devoted prinarily to tcordlg generl news.
borne systes or dte use of pit privies and simr instalaions.  It is consierod to be daily ifit apper at las four times a weeL
ft ea Ier P*Spsao-Spulation divided by number of prc-        Clu_ Ann_a A trvedwe pe Ca4t jer Yam-Basd on the
tising physcian qualified from a medical school at univenity kvel.    number of ickets sold during tha year. induding admisson to
_hdu Pr NwLr  'uu-_Population divided by number of           drive-in cimm  and mobile unitL
practing male and female graduae nures asstuant nunes
practal nunses and nurng auiies.                              L ABOR FORCE
_i I . Pr  _~*   ._a,iW   wing _,  ,__Fbuato   , w   ,eb  ,1w (tho                      -Economnicallyiv ctv pens.n in-
Ppia   wbpe and Hsu   divided by their rspwatve  number of   duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tosptal, uban, andrurl) divubidedaby pvtheir respectandve   studnts, etc.. covering population of all ages Definitions in
hosptal eds availble i pemsd Hpivat ga   u          e        various countie are no comparable 1960. ,970 an  1983 data.
p_ymanentky staffed by at least one physicia. Establishments prov-  Fe (ei      JFae labor fame as percentage of total labor
ding principaly cusodial cse are not included. Rual hospital  foae
hooe  inue heat and mdical cente not permanentl stffed       Agvesawe (perew)-Labor force in farming. fosry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistat nur  midwife. era.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor form 1960. 1970 and 1980
wh offer ipatient accomm odatio  nd provide a limitd range   dataL
of medical facbifes.                                         hsbsrv (peraw-Labor force in minn  consuction. manu-
_Adds,a  P- HoW"ia  Bad-Total number of admisons to or       factoing and electicity, water nd ps as percentage of total lIbor
discuhrges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force 1960. 1970 and 1980 datL
Plidpas-  ate (,p--Wei.eJ-a     -wk. a dfamk-Participation
HOUSISNG                                                     or activity rats are computed as totaL mnae. and femal labor force
Apo,e Siu qf Uym if (pens per Aoow_ld)-sata, uewe,           as percentag  of total male and femak populion of all ag
bduwd-A housholdconst aofuSpofindiualshoshare                rspevey; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dat. These are baed on lLOas
ving quarn  and tbeir main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates recting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may noc be included in the bousehold for statistical purpose  long tiam  trend. A few emtes are Grom naio  o
Ararge- Naib_ of Pm= pa R0 nwel, mhew, ad r_ to              Etmmd Dqpendmecy Rlen-ltatio of population under IS. and
Avage member of persons per roam in all urban and rual       65 and over to the working age populaion (those aed 15-64).
occupied convenional dwelngs respectively. Dwellin exdude
non-permnent structres and unoccupied par.                   INCOME DISTUIDLTION
tParaPe of D-efq wih Elecriry-ral. whbvu  d rral-             Powwow of rotal Diosabk Icom  (both i c   and kiadi-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in living quartr as percen-  Aanuwng to percentile groups of households ranked by total house.
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings mpectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ssed Ewfi-n Radar                                          The folowig estimates are very approxim    measurs of poverty
Avww  sdoo - toeaL. mk  aWd fe rak-Gross tmL   le and    klvs and should be interpreed with conidrmble caution.
fmale enrolnment of al age at the prmnary levd as percentages of  EsaWed AhsIr Poer ty Inom Lev  f USS pr c&pwja-w4=
resPive pnmary schoolge populadons Whilc many countries       -d 'waS-Absolute povery income lvd is that income level
consider pemary shool age to be 6-11 yea  othes do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essntial
differe    in country pracices in the ags and dumion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflcted in hc ratios given. For sante counties with univenrs  EsdxAed RdvariPery Awa.. Leved f 05 per capfai-heu
educationL gross enroUllment may excea 100 peret since some   _d   w-Rumal relative povery income level is on-third of
pupis are below or above the countrym s standard primary-school  averape per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                          derived from the runal kveld with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondar school - roraa mal and feaile-Computed as above:    living in urban arms.
secondary edution requir  at last four years of approved p-   Esed Popastion &Belw Abwlt Poeewry lCDmr LWv  per-
mary inosucto  provides gneral vocationaL or te     training  cewrJ--rm mud rusE- Percent of population (urbn and rual
insuction for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses we enerally xcluded.
Vocadona Enoimii (pecer of ecadory-Vocational insutu-                   Compartive Analysis and Data Division
nons include technical mdusnaL or odher programs which operate       Economic Analysis and Projection Department
independently or as departments of secondary insttutions.                             June 1985



Annex I
- 29 -                              Page 5-of 7
SOMALIA COUNTRY DATA
Economic Indicators
GMP Per Capita - US$266 (1982) 1/
Annual Rate of Growth of GDP
Gross National. Product in 1982 1/                                     at Constant Factor Cost (%)
(Fiscal Years)
USS Nin.           X                    1977-80       1981       1982
GDP at Market Prices            1339.1          100.0                     -3.0       4.4       8.5
Icvestment                      267.5            20.0
Reaource Balance               -292.6            21.9
Export of Goods and NFS          152.4           11.4
Import of Goods and NFS         484.2            36.2
Output in FY1982
Value Added
US$ lln.        %
Agriculture                         595.4        49.9
Industry                            133.4        11.2
Services                           462.8         38.9
1249.6       100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984
(M i lIi o n   So. Sh.)             (Rev. Est.)
Total Revenue                         1526       1421       2263        2760       4075       3971
Current Expenditure                   1573       1670       2295        2750       4470       7965
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)         -47       -249        -32          10       -395      -3994
Other Expenditures                    1684       1462        1425       2616       2097       3299
Overall Deficit                       1731       1771       1457        2626       2492       7293
1/ Based on preliminary estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by EA2NE.



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
- 30 -
BATACZ OF PAYMS
1979     1980 i     1981       1982    1983       19R4
(MLl10on US MblMars)           (PrelLm. Actual)
erchmndiae Exports (f.o.b.)          106       133        114        137     100        58
MLrchandise Imports (c.i.f.)1/      -394      -461      -422       -484    -450       -408
Trade Balance                       -288     -328        -308       -347    -350      -350
Non-factor services                  -12        -8        -1          9        4       -43
and factor inoome, net
Private transfers, net                36        57        64         11       19        62
Current AccoDmt Balance             -264      -279      -245       -327    -327       -331
Direct Inuestment                      -         -         -          -        -         -
Official Grant AMd                    58       143        150        157     148       177
Private, net                           4         -         -          -        -         -
Offical, net                          84        87         79        123     100        46
be of Phnd Credit                      -         4         30        34       44        -4
Errors andi OissioCts                 19        21          3         3      -14        10
Overall Balance                      -99       -24         17       -10      -49      -102
RAE OF E2i:
Fruu 1973 to June 30, 1981 -  US$1.00 - So.Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981-Jbue 30, 1982 - A dual exhwiane rate with:
-US$1.00 - 6.295 (for essential hiorts)
US$1.00 = 12.59 (all other foreign transaCtiCgB)
July 1, 1982-Oct. 22, 1983 - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 15.227
Oct. 23, 1983-Sept. 14, 1984 - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 17.55
Sept. 15, 1984-c. 31, 1984 - US$1.00 - SD.Sh. 26.00
Ji. 1, 19852/ - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 36.00
1/ The inqrt data for 1979-1981 include Frano Vahta lnpqorts.
2/ Rate for abwset all private transactions is determined in a free foreign exchane market.



- 31 -                                      Annex I
MM,________AND__PRI__                                                                         Page 7 of 7
Dec.       Dec.       DBc.       Dec.      Dac.         Dec.
1979       1980       1981       1982      1983        1984
(M i I I i o n   Sb. h.)
BDok Cinals on Gbverrurent (net)     1,231      1,902      2,250      2,100     1,805       4,378
BaRk Ca   on Private Sector
ard PVibIic Enterpriees            1,726      1,977      2,296      2,924     3,456       5,238
txwty SApply                         2,335      2,783      3,674      4,108     4,309       6,933
(P1raaitage of Irdxc Anbmers)
General Price Indiex (1977-100)       136.2      217.1      313.4      384.2     524.0      1,007.0
hAuwal  reatge Chiange In
General Price Index                  23.8       59.4       44.4       22.6      36.4         92.0
Bark Chal  an Private Sector
and tabUic Enterpriss                22.9       14.6       16.1       27.3       18.2       21.5
Mbney 94pply (m1)                      35.1       19.2       32.0       11.8       4.9        60.9
.:3NADISE EISM
Averawe 1977-79          1980                 1981                   1982
US$W n      %        US$ Mln    Z        US$ mln     %         USsNon      2
IAvestock                       71.2    74.5        101.6   76.2         98.0    85.8          106.0    80.9
Banna                            9.8     10.3         8.1    6.1          6.0      5.3          14.0     13.7
Meat and Meat Products           2.1      2.2         1.0    0.7          0.3      0.3           0.2      0.1
Hides and Skins                  5.8      6.0         6.6    5.0          2.0       1.7         4.0       3.1
Fish and Fish Products           1.5      1.6         0.3    0.2          1.0      0.8          2.5       1.9
Others                           5.2      5.4        15.6   11.7          6.9      6.1          4.3      3.3
Total                           95.6   100.0        133.3  100.0        114.0   100.0          131.0    100.0
EU3ERL DEET                               US$ Nmn.
Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1983)1/             1,503.9
(of ubich disbursed)                    1,149.1
nEE   SERVICE RAT% 2
nibUc Debt, 1983 (estiur)
(after debt relief)                        17.2
IMA IEWlDIN (Mhrch 31, 1985)
OCtstandirg and Disbuwsed                   164.5
tUklsbursed                                  71.1
Cntstaxrg inc.  mdUsbuirsed                 235.6
1/ Ew9bdes mdisbursed c      -nuats from East Ehropean coumtries, totaLlirg US$154 mLlJIon, whidh are
not expected to be disbursed any further.



- 32 -
Annex II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986)
No.         Year    Borrower   Project                        Ir  Undisbursed
(US Million)
less cancellations
Sixteen Credits have been fully disbursed                    100.32
635-S0      1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture         10.0     0.05
905-SO      1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension          10.5     1.40
906-so      1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands              8.0     0.93
972-S0      1979    Somalia    Bay Agrictlture                12.0     5.84
1043-SO     1980    Somalia    Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                     6.0     0.01
1105-S0     1981    Somalia    Fourth Education               10.2     3.39
1236-SO     1982    Sonalia    Second Hog. Water Supply       15.0     1.79
1324-SO     1983    Somalia    Fourth Highway                23.0      3.88
1464-So     1984    Somalia    Afgoy Gas Delineation          18.0     7.51
1465-S0     1984    Somalia    Fisheries Explo. Prom.         13.5     9.04
1538-So     1985    Somalia    NW Region Agric. Dev.          10.61/  11.26
1612-SO     1985    Somalia    Agricultural Input
Program                      10.0     3.06
1647-SO     1986    Somalia    Livestock Health Services      4.3      4.30
Total                                   251.42   52.46
of which has been repaid           2.64
TOTAL now held by IDA            248.78
TOTAL Undisbursed                         52.46
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal      Obligor
Year
Outstanding
Loan          Equity    Total
1981        Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.         0.159            _       0.159
1985        Polypropylene Bag Co.            0.605            -       0.605
Total now held by IFC            0.764            -       0.764
1/ Original US amount.



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOIKALIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  18 months
(b)  Project Prepared by           : IDA staff and consultants
(c)  Identification mission        : May 1984
(d)  Appraisal mission             : September 1985
(e)  Negotiations                  : April 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1, 1986.
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:  None
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) SPA will establish a Training Fund to be financed by annual
appropriations on a graduated scale of percentages of SPA's
annual revenues (para. 64);
(b) SPA will open an external foreign currency account in which
it will deposit a sufficient proportion of its foreign
currency revenues to meet its requirement for spare parts
and other foreign currency expenses (para. 72);
(c) SPA will enter into arrangements satisfactory to IDA whereby
selected major international shipping lines say undertake
contadiner/ro-ro operations within a defined area set aside
for this purpose in the port of Mogadishu (para. 61);
(d) The Government will submit to IDA for review and approval a
plan of action for Improving the efficiency of SSAL
including allowing private individuals and companies
including joint ventures of foreign and local interests to
engage in shipping agency work (para. 51); and
(e) Government will provide detailed plans for the settlement of
overdue debts to SPA by other Government agencies (para.
73).



- 34 -
Annex III
rage Z oT 2
Other Conditions
(f) SPA will set its tariffs to achieve a rate of return of 5
percent per annum from 1989 on its net fixed assets in use
as annually revalued (para 73);
(g) SPA will provide plans for the phased implementation of
structural tariff increases between July 1986 and December
1988 by March 31, 1987 (para 73);
(h) Port tariffs will be reviewed semi-annually from 1989 and
adjusted as necessary to meet financial objectives
(para 73);
(i) During the project implementation period, no other capital
expenditure beyond the equivalent of US$500,000 is to be
undertaken by SPA without the concurrence of IDA (para 69);
(j) DurSng the project implementation period, no additional debt
is to be contracted by SPA if such debt will lead to the
overall debt service ratio falling below four times (para.
73);
(k) Not later than July 1, 1987 SPA will submit to IDA for
review and coments its proposals for standardizing the gang
composition for the handling of conventional cargo and
thereafter implement such proposals taking into account
IDA's coments and the availability of equipment to be
procured under the project (para 61);
(1) By April 1 of each fiscal year, SPA will deposit into the
Training Fund a proportion of its gross revenue of the
previous fiscal year on the agreed scale (para. 64);
(i)  SPA will mintain until the completion of the project, a
special account in a commercial bank outside Somalia and
shall deposit therein an amount in US dollars sufficient to
meet its annual needs for spare parts and equipment (para.
72);
(n) Government will implement the plan of action approved by IDA
to improve shipping agency work (para. 51);
(o)  SPA will undertake to achieve the performance targets agreed
upon (para 61); and
(p) SPA will forward audited financial accounts to IDA no later
than nine months from the end of each financial year in 1987
and 1988 and no later than seven months from such year end
in subsequent years (para 74),



- 35 -
Annex IV
Procurement Methods and Costs
(US$ million)
Total
Project Element                               ICB     LCB    Other   Cost
1. Cargo handling, office, training,         6.78    -        -         6.78
and workshop equipment                   (6.78)                    (6.78)
2. Refurbishing of old equipment                      0.10    -         0.10
(0.10)           (0.10)
3. Dry-docking of tugs                                0.72    -         0.72
(0.72)           (0.72)
4. Port improvement (civil) works             7.32                      7.32
(5.99)                    (5.99)
5. Rectification of breakwater                5.26                      5.26
subsidence                            (4.78)                     (4.78)
6.  Consultant services                                       4.20      4.20
_____  _ -(4.18)   (4.18)
Total                               19.36    0.82    4.20    24.38
(17.55)  (0.82)  (4.18)  (22.55)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.



IBRD 19505
-    PEOPtES D CRATC
f?   *         'JIBOUTK)       REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-l2- X~~DJ I BOUTI 
;     ,4J;GJi                                            
B  d  J.1r
SOMALIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Add BIS
4:,_                ) /, PROJECT ,OTm                                              Lot Sr
GRAV,,.UE,- NYN'_ SUEU   SOufcS
TW Wuo; X g BerX <bwo 
4.    MA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ORTS~~~~Grb                                                                 BileOl
S o M A L I AES
PORT  MODERNIZATIONR-SELDS
PROJECT B                                                                         g A.
-  PROJECT KJORTS                                                                                                                   V
BITUMNOUS SIOFACED ROADhIS                                            A
GRAVELIEANTH SUR FACED OADS.                                                     *I    
4r  AJOR  oorTS                                                                 
DOMESTIC AIRFIELDS                                                  v                      
INtERllATKYWAL AIRFIELDS                               QVt                                              L   
DISTRICr BOUNDARIES                             ,                           
__REGIDh. IliilDARlf S jrJ  .,.
-*   NTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES                     9         ,                   
ln _._-.,  .        !i./ElBur
(                                        or)i  Bur Akobao ..W
t  -   -,  O          Dinsar                          *  Bl 
!   2\ ^ >  t x       o                                                        ---  fl~~~~~~~~~ SAUDI ARABIAI
4--
KILOMETERSmw   o  l             ~      \ OMAN
-  ^Sa                                                              ..  %  ^ '  /Blle SUOAN_J    -  /
_IB \A% g"         Ot.F 6
j  ,   _                                                                 o       s,,  E T H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIBOUPTI A. r   
bKOlbio  ^. D-. . d  =                                                               \                   / /    .
\s Y~~~ _.___'r___S___5__._____a 
.U Ubm    B' eE                                                                                                        ,.e'  ,f'1',ANUAR    1986
tiGANMANAR    198



SO M A L I A
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT OF MOGADISHU
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
%%%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  FACILITIES
,- -  -                  PROPOSED DEVE.OPML
-,                      --- PIPELINES FOR OIL PRS
/r~~~~~~~~~~                          PRPOE DVLOM
PIPELINES FOR OIL PRC~~~~~~~~



I GUARD MOUSE                    IA NASHING AREA
2 I T WEIGC.  BRIDGE             '5 OFFICE
3  0 T WEIGH  sBRIDGE            16 SUBSTATION
sE<_                             4j'            \      I *f                             . FIRE STATICN                    '7 'OILETS
-I..G   _                                                                     S=; <   ff  5. POLICE BUILDINC-  *. SHCwERS
6 CFFI:ES                        '9  ELECTRIICAL   ASIN
:JSTC'MS                      :r, OCAM  2.CPCPTlC-4E
B ;ADMINISTRAT:CNi               :1  riRE P'J-05
OFFILC .%MI                     2 -P.wERE RECEIVER
' . CANTEEN                       23 i.ENTCC            SPAN
1t  SERvICE STATICN               :4 R: RC  'AP
':  IE"ICLE ;Epkq I-cp            :5 AiPC;;' :.:.STCs NAREP.OUSE
/         7J3 INSPECCN            :e  ANNEX Z=''CES
KAN
---'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE   WORI/S X
4EXlTlC MARSHALLING YARD/ 
OLE,       i A N".LS   - 
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~7
iW-//0                                                                  100          200  FEEr
0         25          50 METERS
-    --.  _      _ .-__ - ; -  -t  _-J           1
JAN UA RY 19836



MLNWH.D   -IoLAM.W    .
/     CONTMNER YARD                              EXTEN F
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE1014 STATIO
I IrI '/             ~                                    I
;             ,/"~/ //\   ,
riEPERAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~SC  ETR
/Z   4w^,<\               0     50    100    150 FEET          X                            _
\   /                >    '      O     ~    ~~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25  SDbMETERS /_F
|    >'s                                         /                                _ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



IBRD 1946-
S O M A L I A
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT OF BERBERA
:                                                   / A-, RA
N. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAZ 19EEE=-6
t                            -'""'-'I3LJW
/                                                              \~~~
j ,. o<S\/
-                t - - - - - S s   eW l   - --/
IPr---h-<w\
/  I*_ _ *~xs
I                     PRPOE DEVELOPMENT< 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY18



MOLASSES TANK                                         /
CONTAINER YARD
cc                                ~~~~~~~~~~~NEW   f
OF Rh
TRAN                           ~~~~~~~RCO-RO RAMP
MAINTENANCE
- .t   j\ - -i -            t
TRANSIT ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ TANI  SHEO                                 WATER
\-S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I I Ii \                  fO  II I ir 
_NEAC 4t_o W09KSHOP~ .~f
-OG'MN S -@ - -- ,~ |e- - _o



S O M A L I A
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT OF KISMAYO
.I EXISTING FACILITIES
3J PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
O      S       10   FEET
a    1   2    1   .    5  ME TE RS
FRO1NT
TAT EDP PIE R
~M   -9.5      
'. _'
_ BLDG
I  I Id   -1I  IF                       
BLDG    SCALE HOUSE                       ~~~~~~~~~~ACCESS  CAUSEWAY
I IIi    I f Ii  -I II                                                           lil
JANUARY 1996



