OFFICIAL
DOC 1EUM  NTS,
CREDIT NUMBER 1723 SO
Proje2t Agreement
(Port Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOMALI PORTS AUTHORITY
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1723 SO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               6LfQ Y  "      , 198%~, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SOMALI PORTS AUTHORITY (SPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SPA
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SPA, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to SPA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SPA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPA declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environ-
mental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SPA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. SPA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. SPA shall carry out the Project in such a
manner as to achieve the performance targets set forth in, and
substantially in accordance with the provisions of, Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) SPA shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Pro'ject, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by SPA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPA
Section 3.01. SPA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial


﻿-3-
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. SPA shall, at all times, operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. SPA shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) SPA shall establish and thereafter main-
tain a Training Fund which shall be used to finance its training
activities.
(b) By April 1 of each fiscal year, SPA shall deposit into
the Training Fund a proportion of SPA's gross annual revenues of
the previous fiscal year. The proportion to be deposited shall
not be less than the equivalent of: (i) 0.5% in 1987; (ii) 1% in
1988; and (iii) 1.5% in 1989 and in each fiscal year thereafter.
Section 3.05. SPA shall: (a) not later than July 1, 1987,
submit to the Association for review and comments its proposals
for standardizing gang composition of conventional cargo; and
(b) thereafter implement such proposals taking into account the
Association's comments and the availability of equipment to be
procured under the Project.
Section 3.06. SPA shall submit to the Association Quarterly
Progress Reports containing, inter alia, information on construc-
tion of each item of civil works, acquisition of cargo handling,
office, training and workshop equipment, refurbishing of existing
equipment, technical assistance, training program, detailed
project expenditures and any other information the Association
may require to monitor project implementation.
Section 3.07. In order to assist SPA in carrying out
Part C.1 of the Project, SPA shall employ operational experts in
key positions. The employment of such experts shall be in
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) SPA shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and no later
than seven months after the end of each fiscal
year after 1989: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for'such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements,
as well as the audit thereof, and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, SPA shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal f7im the Credit


﻿-5-
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are inclnded in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SPA shall:
(i) at the beginning of each fiscal year, undertake in
consultation with the Association, a revaluation
of its fixed assets in operation on the basis of
replacement cost; and
(ii) take all such measures (including but not limited
to adjustments of the structure or levels of its
tariffs) as shall be required to generate revenues
sufficient to yield an annual rate of return of
not less than five percent (5%) of the average
current net value of its fixed assets in operation
from fiscal year 1989.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
SPA's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of SPA's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The   term  "net  operating  income" means    total
operating revenues less total operating expenses,
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.


﻿-6-
(iv) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admin-
istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depre-
ciation acceptable to the Association, but exclud-
ing interest and other charges on debt.
(v) The average current gross value of SPA's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
half of the sum of the gross value of SPA's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of SPA's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of SPA's fixed
assets in operation less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfacto-ry to the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.03. SPA shall, on the basis of a plan of action
approved pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement, open and thereafter maintain until the completion of
the Project, a special account in a commercial bank outside
Somalia and shall deposit therein an amount in dollars sufficient
to meet SPA's annual needs for spare parts and equipment. There-
after SPA shall, at intervals to be agreed between SPA and the
Borrower, deposit into the account such amounts as shall be
required for spare parts and equipment for the following year.
Section 4.04. SPA shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1987,
submit to the Association for approval a plan of action for
implementing by December 31, 1988, structural tariff increases of
such a magnitude as to achieve the 5% rate of return pursuant to
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (b) implement such plan of
action after obtaining the Association's approval.
Section 4.05. SPA shall, with effect from its 1989 fiscal
year, carry out a semiannual review of its tariff structure and
levels and shall adjust such tariffs whenever necessary to
achieve the rate of return pursuant to Section 4.02 of this
AgreemOnt.


﻿-7-
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SPA shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of
SPA for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ending prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least four times the estimated maximum debt service requirements
of SPA for any succeeding fiz al year on all debt of SPA,
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SPA
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The   term  "net revenues" means     the  difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of
SPA's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which    such   revenues   relate    and   net
non-operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including   administration,   adequate   main-
tenance, taxes and payments in lieu of _axes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term    "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and


﻿-8-
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable flr   the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.07. From the date hereof until the completion of
the Project, SPA shall not undertake any new capital investment
in the ports of Mogadishu, Berbera and Kismayo, beyond those
included in the Project estimated to cost in the aggregate in any
given fiscal year more than the equivalent of five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000), without the prior concurrence of the
Association; such concurrence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.


﻿-9-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SPA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
- such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,.D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI).
For SPA:
Somali Ports Authority
P.O. Box 935
Mogadishu
Telex:
61150 SOMSHIP


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SPA, may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of SPA or such other person or persons as the
General Manager of SPA shall designate in writing, and SPA shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
SOMALI PORTS AUTHORITY
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b) Contracts for equipment and civil works shall be
grouped together to the maximum extent practicable for the pur-
poses of inviting bids, and such grouping of items shall be
subject to the approval of the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, SPA may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
The refurbishing of old equipment and docking of tugs may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers/
contractors eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (a) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 12 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contracts required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
Annex 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contracts.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph. 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SPA in carrying out the Project, SPA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank ii August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Performance Targets
1.   Labor Productivity (tons per gang hour):1/
Mogadishu/Berbera          Kismayo
Current*/Target      Current*/Target
General Cargo                 6       10         5.3       8
Bagged Cargo                 11       16         9        13
Bananas                      11       16         9        13
Container (TEU)          6.5/3.3**    10         3.3       6.5
Ro-Ro (unit loads)       6.5/3.3**    12         -         6.5
The performance shall be 80% of the agreed targets 1 year
after delivery of cargo-handling equipment provided under the
Project, 90% after 2 years and 100% after 3 years.
2.   Cargo Handling Equipment Availability: 75%.
3.   Average Annual Ship Waiting Time: 2 days, 2 years after
delivery of cargo-handling equipment provided for under the
project; 1 day, 3 years after such procurement.
Based on current average performance level.
Berbera.
1/   To determine productivity per berth per day, each berth will
be assumed to work an average of 16 hours (two shifts);
vessels loading/discharging bananas, general and bagged
cargo work an average of 2.5 gangs per shift and container
and Ro-Ro vessels are assumed to average 2 working points
per shift.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


