Page  1
Afghanistan 
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic 
Preparedness and Response Project  
Environmental Management Plan 
Prepared by: The Islamic Government of Afghanistan (GOA): 
Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL) and Ministry 
of Public Health (MOPH)  
(July 27, 2007) 
E1457 
Page  2
Executive Summary 
The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is embarking upon the Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project.  The project is funded by the World 
Bank (WB).  In l
ine with the national legislative requirement and WB’s safeguard policies, an 
environmental management plan (EMP) of the AI project has been developed.  This 
document presents this EMP. 
Background 
Since 2003, highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) caused by the H5N1 subtype has been 
spreading at an alarming rate, from East Asia to Central Asia, and now to the Middle East, 
Europe, Africa, and South Asia.  In addition to its impact on animal health, with millions of 
domestic poultry having died or been destroyed worldwide, H5N1 has been causing severe 
human disease.   
Afghanistan has some of the poorest social, economic and health indicators in the world with 
high susceptibility to communicable diseases.  Inadequate facilities and capacities to detect, 
control, contain and mitigate an outbreak of communicable disease have made this country 
highly vulnerable to diseases such as avian influenza. 
In March 2006, an inter-sectoral Task Force prepared the Afghanistan National Avian 
Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (ANIPPRP).  
Subsequently, the Government of Afghanistan requested the World Bank to finance the Plan.  
The ANIPPRP was later supplemented with an Operational Plan, which formed the basis for 
the World Bank appraisal for the present project.  
The Project   
The overall objective of the Project is to minimize the threat posed by HPAI to humans in 
Afghanistan by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry, and 
preparing for, controlling, and responding to possible human infections, especially an 
influenza epidemic and related emergencies.  This objective will be achieved through three 
types of interventions: (i) prevention; (ii) preparedness and planning; and (iii) response and 
containment. 
The project will finance activities under four components: Animal Health; Human Health, 
Communications and Public Awareness; and Institutional Coordination and Project 
Management. 
The Animal Health component will support a national program to develop and implement 
HPAI prevention, containment, control, and eradication activities in the livestock sector of 
Afghanistan creating an effective system for improved bird health surveillance, diagnostic 
analysis and disease control in accordance with FAO/OIE standards. 
The Human Health component will support a national program of activities to prevent, detect, 
respond to and mitigate the impact of human illness caused by avian or pandemic influenza.  
Component activities will involve emergency and long-term developments to address priority 
gaps in disease surveillance, control and treatment.  It would also contribute to MOPH’s 
Page  3
o
ngoing program for re-establishing public health capacity that was destroyed during 
decades of conflict.  
Under the coordination of the communications specialist based at the AI Secretariat, and 
with the advise and technical assistance of the Communications Task-Team (including 
donors, and NGOs), the communications component will finance baseline research, design, 
test and implementation of a comprehensive and integrated communications strategy.  
The last component will support the institutional coordination and management of the 
Project. 
Environmental Management Plan 
The present EMP has been developed in response to the regulatory requirements in the 
country, defined by the recently promulgated environmental protection act, as well as the WB 
Operational Policies.  
The overall objective of the EMP is to improve the environmental performance of the project, 
and to ensure that the proposed activities do not cause an unacceptable level of 
environmental impacts or public health risks. 
The EMP 
reviews the national regulatory and WB’s safeguard policies relevant to the project.  
It identifies and assesses the potential environmental impacts and public health risks that 
may be caused by the project, and also recommends mitigation and monitoring measures to 
reduce if not completely eliminate these impacts.  The document also determines the training 
and capacity building needs with regard to the environmental management of the project.  In 
addition, the EMP defines the implementation mechanism, and assigns roles and 
responsibilities, for the mitigation measures, monitoring requirements and environmental 
trainings during the project execution.  Finally, the EMP specifies the communication and 
documentation protocol for the environmental management of the project.   
The present EMP has been developed in a consultative and participative manner, thus 
making it relevant to the local conditions and existing capacities within the implementing 
ministries.  If adequately implemented, this Plan will not only enhance the environmental 
performance of the project, but will also help in mainstreaming the environmental 
management within the implementing ministries.  
 
Page  4
Acronyms 
ADB Asian 
Development 
Bank 
AH Animal 
health 
A
HID Animal 
and 
human 
influenza 
disease 
AI Avian 
influenza 
AIRP Avian 
Influenza 
Response 
Project 
 
APHI 
Afghanistan Public Health Institute  
ANIPPRP 
National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and 
Response Plan  
AVA 
Afghan Veterinary Association  
CCU Command 
and 
Control 
Unit 
 
CDC Center 
for 
Disease 
Control 
DEWS 
Disease Early Warning System  
DFID 
Department for International Development  
EA Environmental 
Assessment 
 
EFP Environmental 
Focal 
Point 
EIA 
Environmental Impact Assessment  
EMP Environmental 
Management 
Plan 
ERT 
Emergency Response Team 
EU European 
Union 
EWMS 
Environmental and Waste Management Specialist  
FAO Food 
and 
Agriculture 
Organization 
 
FIDIC 
International Federation of Consulting Engineers 
GDPP 
General Department for Policy and Planning  
GoA Government 
of 
Afghanistan 
 
GPAI 
Global Program for Avian Influenza 
GPS Global 
positioning 
system 
HH Human 
health 
HLP 
Horticulture and Livestock Project  
HPAI 
Highly pathogenic avian influenza 
IST Implementation 
Support 
Team 
 
Page  5
M
AIL 
Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock 
M
OC Ministry 
of 
Commerce 
 
MOF Ministry 
of 
Finance 
 
MOI Ministry 
of 
Interior 
MOPH Ministry 
of 
Public 
Health 
MORRD 
Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development  
M&E 
Monitoring and evaluation  
NAIC 
National Avian Influenza Committee  
NAIS 
National Avian Influenza Secretariat  
NEPA National 
Environmental 
Protection 
Agency 
NERC 
National Emergency Response Committee 
OIE 
World Organization for Animal Health / International Office of 
Epizootics 
OP Operational 
Policy 
 
OSHA 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration   
PAIC Provincial 
Avian 
Influenza 
Committee 
POM Project 
Operational 
Manual 
 
PPD 
Planning and Policy Department  
PPE Personal 
protective 
equipment 
 
SVD State 
Veterinary 
Department 
 
ToR Terms 
of 
reference 
 
ToT Training 
of 
trainers 
UNEP United 
Nations 
Environment 
Program 
UNICEF 
UN International Children and Education Fund  
USAID 
United States Agency for International Development  
USDA 
United States Department of Agriculture  
VFU 
Veterinary Field Units  
WB World 
Bank 
WHO 
World Health Organization  
Page  6
Contents 
Executive Summary........................................................................................ii 
Acronyms....................................................................................................... iv 
1
Introduction
..........................................................................................1-1
 
1.1
Background
...........................................................................................1-1
 
1.2
Project Operational Manual
.................................................................1-2
 
1.3
EMP Objectives
....................................................................................1-2
 
1.4
Methodology
.........................................................................................1-3
 
1.5
EMP Components
.................................................................................1-3
 
2
Regulatory Review
...............................................................................2-1
 
2.1
National Legislation
.............................................................................2-1
 
2.3
WB Safeguard Policies
........................................................................2-3
 
3
Project Description
..............................................................................3-1
 
3.1
Project Development Objective
..........................................................3-1
 
3.2
Project Components
............................................................................3-1
 
3.3
Implementation
.....................................................................................3-6
 
4
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation
.............................4-1
 
4.1
Environmental Screening
....................................................................4-1
 
4.2
Environmental Impacts
........................................................................4-1
 
4.3
Mitigation Measures
.............................................................................4-4
 
4.4
Residual Environmental Impacts
........................................................4-7
 
5
Institutional and Implementation Mechanism
..................................5-1
 
5.1
Institutional Arrangements
..................................................................5-1
 
5.2
Implementation Arrangements
...........................................................5-3
 
5.3
Legal and Contractual Arrangements
................................................5-5
 
6
Environmental Monitoring
..................................................................6-1
 
6.1
Objective
...............................................................................................6-1
 
6.2
Environmental Monitoring Framework
..............................................6-1
 
6.3
Monitoring Indicators
...........................................................................6-2
 
7
Environmental Trainings and Awareness Raising
..........................7-1
 
7.1
Objectives
.............................................................................................7-1
 
7.2
Type of Environmental Trainings
.......................................................7-1
 
7.3
Training Need Identification and Module Development
...................7-1
 
Page  7
7
.4
I
nitial Trainings
.
....................................................................................7-2
 
7.5
Subsequent Trainings
..........................................................................7-2
 
7.6
Environmental Awareness Raising
....................................................7-2
 
8
Communication and Documentation
................................................8-1
 
8.1
Objectives
.............................................................................................8-1
 
8.2
Communication
....................................................................................8-1
 
8.3
Documentation
.....................................................................................8-2
 
9
Environmental Management Cost
.....................................................9-1
 
Page  8
List of Attachments 
Attachment 
2.1:  Wetlands in Afghanistan
..............................................2-6
 
Attachment 
4.1:  Screening Matrix (Un-mitigated)
..................................4-8
 
Attachment 
4.2:  Comparison of Disposal Methods for Animal Wastes 
Generated from Avian Influenza Outbreaks 
.....................4-9
 
Attachment 
4.3:  Mitigation and Monitoring Plan 
.................................4-15
 
Attachment 
4.4:  Residual Impacts
.........................................................4-21
 
Attachment 
5.1:  Roles and Responsibilities
..........................................5-6
 
Attachment 
5.2:  ToR for International Environmental and Waste 
Management Consultant
......................................................5-9
 
Attachment 
5.3:  ToR for Environmental Focal Point (Animal Health)
5-11
 
Attachment 
5.4:  ToR for Environmental Focal Point (Human Health)
...5-
12
 
Attachment 
5.5:  Implementation Schedule
...........................................5-13
 
Page  9
Introduction 
The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is embarking upon the Avian Influenza Control and 
H
uman Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project (Avian Influenza 
–
AI project for 
short).  The project is funded by the World Bank (WB).  In line with the national legislative 
requirement and WB’s safeguard policies, an environmental management plan (EMP) of the 
AI project has been developed.  This document presents this EMP. 
Background 
Outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) caused by the H5N1 subtype of 
influenza “A” were first recognized in Hong Kong in 1997.  Since late 2003, this subtype has 
been spreading at an alarming rate, from East Asia to Central Asia, and now to the Middle 
East, Europe, Africa, and South Asia.  In addition to its impact on animal health, with millions 
of domestic poultry having died or been destroyed worldwide, H5N1 has been causing 
severe human disease.  Of the known 258 humans with confirmed HPAI as of November 
2006, most (154) have died.  The rapidly expanding area in which HPAI has been discovered 
and the escalating number of human infections have raised concerns worldwide over the 
possible evolution of the next influenza pandemic and its disastrous consequences.
1
As a result of a quarter-century of devastating civil strife and half a decade of serious 
drought, Afghanistan has some of the poorest social, economic and health indicators in the 
world with high susceptibility to communicable diseases.  Inadequate facilities and capacities 
to detect, control, contain and mitigate an outbreak of communicable disease have made this 
country highly vulnerable.  Twenty-six confirmed cases of H5N1 virus in sampled chicken in 
four provinces have been reported since testing started in March 2006.  The virus – which 
was first diagnosed in the province of Nangahar - appeared to be spreading fast, with 
infection occurring in five new provinces in close succession (Kabul, Laghman, Logar, 
Parwan and Kapisa).  However, since bird migration stopped in May, there have been no 
further outbreaks of animal and human influenza disease (AHID) in Afghanistan.  Bird 
migration will normally restart by October and preparedness will be particularly important 
during the following six months. 
In March 2006, an inter-sectoral Task Force prepared a National Avian Influenza and 
Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (ANIPPRP) formally endorsed by the 
Government of Afghanistan (GoA).
2
After preparing the plan, the Government requested the 
World Bank assistance to finance the Plan.  The ANIPPRP provides a strong basis on which 
to detect and combat possible outbreaks, and outlines the institutional mechanisms for doing 
so.  The plan is candid about what capacity and resource constraints exist.  The ANIPPRP 
1
Avian influenza (also called avian flu or bird flu) refers to a group of different influenza viruses that primarily 
affect birds.  An influenza pandemic happens when a new subtype emerges that has not previously 
circulated in humans.  If H5N1 adapts into a strain that is contagious among humans, it will no longer be a 
bird virus but a human influenza virus. 
2
A
National Avian Influenza Committee (NAIC) was established as soon as the Minister MAI confirmed the 
existence HPAI (H5N1).  Membership of NAIC includes MAI, Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), Ministry of 
Commerce (MOC), Ministry of Finance (MOF, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP), 
representatives of concerned donors and implementing organizations such as FAO, USAID, USDA, EU, 
ADB, WB, WHO and UNICEF.  
Page  10
w
as later supplemented with an Operational Plan, which formed the basis for the World Bank 
appraisal. 
Under the Plan the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL) adopted a policy of 
slaughtering birds in the vicinity of all proven outbreaks of H5N1 and payment of 
compensation to farmers concerned.  This policy was initiated under the FAO supported 
Avian Influenza Response Project (AIRP) and, as a result of the 26 diagnosed cases, about 
thirty thousand birds were slaughtered.  Since then, eight regional emergency centers have 
been established for handling AI (Kabul, Nangahar, Kandahar, Herat, Bamayan, Balkh 
Kunduz and Ghazni).  Intensive training has been provided to provincial veterinary directors 
and training courses on AI awareness have been organized for 285 veterinarians.  Initial 
supplies of equipment, protective clothing and flu detector antigen have been distributed and 
a
surveillance program has been initiated based on 2 percent monthly sampling of poultry 
flocks in each regional center. 
Project Operational Manual 
The Project Operational Manual (POM) has been developed in order to provide detailed 
procedures and guidelines for the implementation of the AI project.  The POM describes the 
implementation arrangements, and defines roles and responsibilities of the implementing 
agencies.   
The present EMP is one of the annexures of the POM. 
EMP Objectives 
The overall objective of the EMP is to improve the environmental performance of the project, 
and to ensure that the proposed activities do not cause an unacceptable level of 
environmental impacts or public health risks.  Specifically, the EMP will perform the following 
functions: 
„\03
Meet the requirements as given in the national environmental law as well as the WB 
safeguard policies. 
„\03
Facilitate the implementation of the environmental mitigation measures (discussed later 
in the document). 
„\03
Define implementation and organizational arrangements, as well as roles and 
responsibilities of various members of the project team with regard to environmental 
management. 
„\03
Define the environmental monitoring mechanism and identify monitoring parameters in 
order to: 
X\03
Ensure the complete implementation of all mitigation measures, and 
X\03
Ensure the effectiveness of the mitigation measures. 
„\03
Identify environmental training requirements at various levels. 
„\03
Define the communication and reporting protocols for environmental management. 
Page  11
T
he EMP will also help in mainstreaming the environmental management in the routine 
activities, and capacity building of the personnel, in the implementing ministries (MOPH and 
MAIL).  
Methodology 
A
generic EMP existed at the project development and appraisal stage.  Before the initiation 
of the project activities, and simultaneous to the development of the POM, the present EMP 
was developed.  An effort was made to make the EMP relevant to the local conditions and 
existing capacities within the implementing ministries.  The specific activities carried out while 
developing the present EMP are briefly described below. 
Review of the project details:
 
Various components of the Afghanistan AI project were 
studied, in addition to other background material. 
Discussions with project personnel:
 
Discussions were held at the WB project team (task 
team) as well as the team developing the POM, in order to understand the project context, 
implementation plans.  Similar discussions were held with relevant officials within MAIL and 
MOPH, in order to understand their expected role in the project, and the existing 
environmental management capacity and capability.   
Separate meetings were held with MAIL and MOPH in order to identify the possible 
environmental focal points for the AI project.  
One of the objectives of these meetings was to determine the environmental training needs 
of various project personnel. 
Meeting with NEPA:
 
A
meeting was held with the NEPA officials, in order to apprise them 
of the proposed project activities and the process of developing the present EMP. 
Meeting with UNEP:
 
A
meeting was held with UNEP in Kabul, in order to understand their 
possible role in developing the EMP, and during the project execution.   
Field visits:
 
Short field visits were carried out to the areas where AI outbreaks occurred in 
the past.  These included two communities within Kabul (Shah Shaheed and Dasht Berchie), 
and a community near Mahmood Raqi (Kapisa province).  The objectives of these visits were 
to see the type of communities affected, carcass disposal sites, awareness level of the 
communities, and status of the compensation payment.   
EMP compilation:
 
With the help of information and data collected during the above steps, 
the present EMP was compiled.  The EMP structure, discussed in the following section, 
follows the WB safeguard policies as well as the internally acceptable ‘industry’ practice.  
EMP Components 
The present EMP has the following components: 
Regulatory Review (Section 2):
 
It provides brief description and their applicability of the 
relevant national environmental legislation, as well as the WB safeguard polices.  
Page  12
Project Description (Section 3)
:
This section provides brief description of the Afghanistan 
AI project.  
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation (Section 4)
:
The environmental and 
public health risks that the proposed project may pose are discussed in this section, along 
with the associated mitigation measures.  
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements (Section 5)
:
This section defines the 
institutional arrangements, roles and responsibility, and implantation procedures for the 
environmental management of the AI project.  
Environmental Monitoring (Section 6)
:
This section provides the environmental monitoring 
framework. 
Environmental Trainings (Section 7)
:
The environmental training plan is provided in this 
section.  The plan identifies the type of trainings, training contents, trainers and trainees, and 
training schedule. 
Communications and Documentation (Section 8)
:
The communication, documentation 
and reporting protocol is provided in this section. 
Environmental Management Budget (Section 9)
:
Finally, the cost of environmental 
management is discussed at the end of the document. 
Page  13
Regulatory Review 
This section provides an overview of the Afghanistan’s environmental legislation, and their 
relevance to the AI project.  Also provided in this section is a summary of the WB safeguard 
policies and their compliance/triggering status for the project.  
National Legislation 
The environmental law in Afghanistan has recently been enforced, through the official 
gazette No. 912, dated 25 January 2007, after being approved by the Parliament.  “This Act 
has been promulgated to give effect to Article 15 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic 
of Afghanistan, and provide for management of issues relating to rehabilitation of the 
environment and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, living organisms 
and non-living organisms.” 
3
The Act is divided in nine chapters, listed below: 
1. General 
Provisions 
2. Functions 
and 
Powers 
3. 
Management of Activities affecting the Environment 
4. Integrated 
Pollution 
Control 
5. 
Environmental Considerations Relevant to Water Resource Conservation and 
Management 
6. 
Biodiversity and Natural Resource Conservation and Management 
7. 
Environmental Information, Education and Training and Research 
8. Compliance 
and 
Enforcement 
9. Miscellaneous 
Orders. 
The salient provisions of the Act relevant to the AI project are briefly discussed below. 
Institutions:
 
The Act defines the functions and powers of the National Environmental 
Protection Agency (NEPA), which is the prime environmental regulatory and approval 
authority in the country.  Through the Act, the Committee fro Environmental Coordination has 
been established, in order to promote integration and coordination of environmental issues 
and the fundamental principles set out in the Act.  The Committee will be composed of the 
representatives of all relevant ministries, national institutions, Provincial Councils, District 
Councils, Village Councils and civil society organizations.  In addition, the National 
Environmental Advisory Council has also been established, in order to advise the NEPA on 
regulatory, environmental and financial matters.  The Act also calls for establishment of the 
Sub-national Environmental Advisory Councils in every province, in order to make 
recommendations regarding environmental and financial matters.   
Environmental Management:
 
Under the Act, the proponents of any project, plan, policy or 
activity must submit to NEPA a Preliminary Environmental Assessment, in order to allow 
3
Article 1 of the Environmental Law (unofficial English translation). 
Page  14
N
EPA to determine the associated potential adverse effects and possible impacts.  After 
reviewing the preliminary assessment, NEPA can either authorize - with or without conditions 
–
the project, plan, policy or activity, provided that the potential adverse effects of the 
proposed activities on the environment are unlikely to be significant.  Otherwise, NEPA may 
require the proponents to submit a detailed environmental impact statement
4
including a 
comprehensive mitigation plan for its review and approval.   
The present EMP will be submitted to NEPA in pursuance with this provision of the Act.  
Pollution Control:
 
The Act defines the requirement and procedure for obtaining the 
pollution control license for any facility which discharges any pollutant into the environment, if 
the discharge causes or likely to cause significant adverse effect on the environment or 
public health.  Similarly the Act describes similar requirements and procedures for hazardous 
waste management license.   
During the operationalization of the EMP (discussed later in the document) this aspect will be 
discussed with NEPA, particularly with reference to requirement of the pollution control 
license for the hospitals and laboratories supported by the AI project.  
Biodiversity and Natural Resources Conservation/Management:
 
The Act identifies the 
need to develop the national biodiversity strategy.  The Act also establishes the national 
protected areas system, under which NEPA will develop comprehensive plan for the national 
protected areas.  Subsequently, the protected areas will be selected and delineated in 
consultation with the relevant ministries and local communities.   
During the EMP operationalization, this aspect will also be discussed with NEPA, with regard 
to its implication on the AI project (ie, the project activities in an area which will in future be 
included in any protected area).
 
Other National Regulations and Policies under 
Development  
The national environmental legislation has been promulgated, however several regulations, 
guidelines and policies are still needed, in order to provide detailed procedures for complying 
with the law.  The following documents are in the process of development: 
„\03
Interim Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations 
„\03
Environmental Impact Assessment Policy 
„\03
Administrative Guidelines for EIA 
„\03
Protected Areas Regulation.    
All of the above regulations, guidelines and policies are likely to be relevant to the AI project.  
During the EMP operationalization, their relevance to the project will need to be discussed 
with NEPA, particularly if by then these instruments are finalized and officially notified.  
4
Synonymous to Environmental Impact Assessment 
(EIA) 
or Environmental and Social Assessment
 (ESA)
.
Page  15
WB Safeguard Policies 
The project has also been analyzed against the WB safeguard policies: OP 4.01 
(environmental assessment), OP 4.04 (natural habitat), OP 4.36 (forestry), OP 4.09 (pest 
management), OP 4.11 (cultural property), OP 4.10 (indigenous people), OP 4.12 
(involuntary resettlement), OP 4.37 (safety of dams), OP 7.50 (projects in international 
waters), and OP 7.60 (projects in disputed areas).  These policies and their applicability for 
the AI project are briefly introduced below.   
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) 
The World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank 
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus to 
improve decision making.  The OP defines the EA process and various types of the EA 
instruments.   
The Bank classifies the proposed project into one of four categories, depending on the type, 
location, sensitivity, and scale of the project and the nature and magnitude of its potential 
environmental impacts.  
(a)
 Category A
:
A
proposed project is classified as 
Category A
 if it is likely to have significant 
adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented.  For a 
Category A
 project, the borrower is responsible for preparing a report, normally an EIA (or a 
suitably comprehensive regional or sectoral EA). 
(b)
 Category B
:
A
proposed project is classified as 
Category B
 if its potential adverse 
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas
—including 
wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats—are less adverse than those of 
Category A
 projects.  These impacts are site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and 
in most cases mitigatory measures can be designed more readily than for 
Category A
 
projects.  The scope of EA for a 
Category B
 project may vary from project to project, but it is 
narrower than that of 
Category A
 EA.  
(c)
 Category C
:
A
proposed project is classified as 
Category C
 if it is likely to have minimal or 
no adverse environmental impacts.  Beyond screening, no further EA action is required for a 
Category C
 project.  
(d)
 Category FI
:
A
proposed project is classified as 
Category FI
 if it involves investment of 
Bank funds through a financial intermediary, in subprojects that may result in adverse 
environmental impacts. 
Compliance Status:
 
The AI project is categorized as Category B.  The proposed activities 
are expected to generate no or limited adverse environmental effects, since most activities 
are designed to support preventive measures.  The Project will, generally, have positive 
environmental and social impacts as investments in facilities, equipment, laboratories, and 
training will improve the effectiveness and safety of existing avian influenza handling and 
testing procedures.  
The generic EMP that existed at the project appraisal stage, and the present adapted and 
expanded EMP, have been developed in response to this OP. 
Page  16
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) 
Involuntary resettlement under development projects, if unmitigated, often gives rise to 
severe economic, social, and environmental risks.  OP 4.12 provides safeguards to address 
and mitigate these impoverishment risks.  
C
ompliance Status:
 
This OP is not triggered, since involuntary resettlement or land/asset 
acquisition is not included in the AI project.  The hospitals/clinics supported under the project 
will be rehabilitated on the existing premises, thus avoiding any land take.  The carcass 
burial will be carried out at state land as far as possible, or at the community land with the full 
consent of the concerned community, and transfer of land will not take place.   
Natural Habitat (OP 4.04) 
The conservation of natural habitats, like other measures that protect and enhance the 
environment, is essential for long-term sustainable development.  Through this OP, the Bank 
therefore supports the protection, maintenance, and rehabilitation of natural habitats and 
their functions.   
Compliance Status:
 
This OP is not triggered, since the project activities are unlikely to 
change the natural habitat.  The activities that may have any interaction with the natural 
habitat/wildlife are the surveillance, catching, culling or disposal of wild birds, particularly 
near the wet lands (see 
Attachment 2.1
 for the known wetland in the country).  To mitigate 
the potential adverse impacts, these activities will be carried out in coordination and 
consultation with the relevant departments (NEPA and Forestry Department in MAIL); the 
surveillance and culling carcass activities will be carried out in a manner to have no 
significant impact, if at all, on the natural habitat/wild life of the area; and disposal sites will 
be selected in a manner that the wetlands are not adversely impacted.   
Forestry (OP 4.36) 
The objective of this Poli
cy is to assist the WB’s borrowers to harness the potential of forests 
to reduce poverty in a sustainable manner, integrate forests effectively into sustainable 
economic development, and protect the vital local and global environmental services and 
values of forests. 
Compliance Status:
 
This OP is not triggered, since the project activities are unlikely to 
affect the forest resources.  Most of the carcass burial during the project is likely to be near 
the community, outside any forests.  In case of culling of the wild birds, it is however possible 
that the burial site is inside the forest.  However, such activities will be carried out in 
coordination with the concerned departments, and maximum care will be employed in site 
selection and restoration after the burial.   
Pest Management (4.09) 
Through this OP, the WB supports a strategy that promotes the use of biological or 
environmental control methods and reduces reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. 
Compliance Status:
 
The project does not support procurement or usage of any pesticides.  
Hence this OP is not triggered.  
Page  17
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37) 
The Policy seeks to ensure that appropriate measures are taken and sufficient resources 
provided for the safety of dams the WB finances.   
Compliance Status:
 
The project does not involve any work related to dams.  Hence this OP 
is not triggered.  
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50) 
This OP defines the procedure to be followed for projects the WB finances that are located 
on any water body that forms a boundary between, or flows through two or more states.   
Compliance Status:
 
This OP is not relevant to the project, since the project activities do not 
involve any work related to the international waters.    
Indigenous People (OP 4.10) 
This OP defines the process to be followed if the project affects the indigenous people.  The 
policy requires that the proponents will develop an Indigenous People Development Plan and 
get it approved by the Bank, if such groups are identified during the project implementation. 
Compliance Status:
 
No indigenous people - with a social and cultural identity distinct from 
the dominant society that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process 
–
are known to exist in the areas where different project components would be 
located.  Therefore this OP is not triggered.  However if such groups are identified during the 
project implementation, the proponents will develop an Indigenous People Development 
Plan, in compliance with the OP and get it approved by the Bank. 
Cultural Property (OP 4.11) 
The World Bank’s general policy regarding cultural properties is to assist in their 
preservation, and to seek to avoid their elimination.  Under this OP, the Bank normally 
declines to finance projects that will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, 
and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as to prevent such damage.  
Compliance Status:
 
No project activities are likely to affect or damage the cultural property.  
During the selection of the carcass disposal sites, it will be ensured that there exist no 
archeological, cultural, historical or religious remains/artifacts at or in the immediate vicinity 
(this aspect will be included in the guidelines for the burial site selection).  In case of 
discovery of such sites of archeological, cultural, historical or religious significance during the 
excavation for the burial pits, the work will be stopped (burial will be carried out at any 
alternate location), and the concerned department will be notified about the discovery. 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60) 
In accordance with this Policy, the Bank may proceed with a project in a disputed area if the 
governments concerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute, the project 
proposed for country A should go forward without prejudice to the claims of country B.  
Compliance Status:
 
No project activities will be carried out in any disputed territory, hence 
this OP is not triggered.   
Page  18
A
ttachment 0.1:  Wetlands in Afghanistan 
Afghanistan is an arid country and the few wetlands that do exist are therefore of great 
significance to biodiversity.  Wetlands provide habitat for many migrating water birds.  
Wetlands are also teeming with numerous species of aquatic plants and invertebrates, fish, 
a
nd amphibians.  Artificial lakes are generally not as ecologically valuable as natural lakes 
because of fluctuating water levels and because natural plant and animal assemblages have 
not had time to develop.  Nevertheless, they can provide important habitat for some species.   
The table below lists the Afghan wetlands that are known or suspected to be important for 
biodiversity.  Examination of an Afghanistan map suggests that there are other wetlands that 
could be investigated for ecological significance.   
 
Wetland Name 
Wetland Type 
Location 
Province 
Source 
Hamun-i-Puzak 
Natural lake and 
marsh 
31
°
29' 44" N;  
61° 42' 55" E  
Farah Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981), Scott 
1995 
Hamune Saburi 
Natural lake and 
marsh 
31° 31' 24" N;  
61° 17' 23" E 
Farah K. 
Habibi 
(pers. 
com. 2006) 
Arghandab 
Reservoir 
Artificial lake 
31º 51' 21" N, 
65º 53' 45" E 
Kandahar Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981) 
Kajaki Reservoir 
Artificial lake 
32° 19' 59" N, 
65° 11' 07" E 
Helmand Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981) 
Ab-i-Estada Natural 
saline 
lake 
32° 28' 53" N, 
67° 54' 36" E 
Ghazni Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Dashte Nawar 
Seasonal saline 
lake 
33° 38' 00" N;  
67° 43' 05" E  
Ghazni Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Sardeh 
Reservoir 
Artificial lake 
33° 29' 37" N;  
68° 28' 22" E 
Ghazni Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981) 
Qargha Lake 
Artificial lake 
34° 33' 18" N;  
69° 01' 59" E 
Kabul Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981) 
Kol-i-Hashmat 
Khan 
Natural lake and 
reed swamp 
34° 29' 29" N;  
69° 12' 13" E 
Kabul Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Darunta Lake 
Artificial lake 
34° 29' 31" N;  
70° 21' 34" E 
Nagarhar Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Sarobi Lake 
Artificial lake 
34° 23' 55" N;  
69° 41' 33" E 
Kapisa Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Page  19
Wetland Name 
Wetland Type 
Location 
Province 
Source 
Darqad Swamp 
woodlands on 
Amu Darya 
37° 26' 39" N; 
69° 32' E 
Takhar Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Imam Sahib  
Swamp 
woodlands on 
Amu Darya 
37° 12' 22" N ; 
68° 44' 46" E    
Kunduz Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Band-i-Amir 
Six natural lakes 
34° 52' 40" N; 
67° 16' 51" E 
Bamiyan Sayer 
and 
Van 
der 
Zon (1981); Scott 
1995 
Dagh-i-Tondi 
Intermittent lake 
32° 27' 41" N;  
60° 56' 49" E 
Farah K. 
Habibi 
(pers. 
comm.) 
Kowl-i-
Namaksar 
Salt lake 
34° 04' 11" N; 
60° 39' 56" E 
Herat K. 
Habibi 
(pers. 
comm.) 
Gawde Zereh 
Seasonal lake 
29° 43' 44" N; 
61° 42' 41" E 
Nimroz K. 
Habibi 
(pers. 
comm.) 
Zor Kol 
High mountain 
lake 
37° 25' 54" N; 
73° 43' 04" E 
Badakhshan Scott 
(1995) 
Chaqmaqtin High 
Mountain 
lake 
37° 13' 48" N;  
74° 10' 29" E 
Badakhshan Scott 
(1995) 
Ay Khanum 
River, Marshy 
reedbeds, small 
ponds, and 
grassy 
meadows 
37° 12' 17" N; 
69° 26' 35" E  
Darqad Khan 
(2005) 
Weghnon High 
mountain 
lake 
36° 01' 45" N; 
74° 00' 45" E 
Takhar Khan 
(2005) 
Page  20
Project Description 
This section provides a simplified version of the project description (the complete description 
is available in other project document including Project Operational Manual. 
Project Development Objective 
The overall objective of the Project is to minimize the threat posed by HPAI to humans in 
Afghanistan by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry, and 
preparing for, controlling, and responding to possible human infections, especially an 
influenza epidemic and related emergencies.  Though the objective is specific to HPAI, the 
interventions are expected to contribute to the control of other zoonotic diseases and other 
types of infectious diseases, in terms of building overall response capacity.  
This objective will be achieved through three types of interventions: (i) prevention; 
(ii) preparedness and planning; and (iii) response and containment.  If these types of 
interventions achieve their goals, the proposed project will reduce the burden of disease in 
animal and the consequent economic losses.  It will also lower the risk of human infection 
and the loss of productivity attributable to human infections in Afghanistan.  Finally, it would 
limit the risk of HPAI in other countries.  
At the end of the project it is expected that (i) the capacity of the agencies involved in AI 
containment, control and mitigation will have significantly improved; (ii) the threat to human 
health in the high risks provinces of Afghanistan will have been substantially reduced; and 
(iii) the general public will be aware and will have adopted AI related human, animal health 
and environmental safeguards. 
Project Components 
The project will finance activities under four components:  
„\03
Animal Health  
„\03
Human Health,  
„\03
Communications and Public Awareness, and  
„\03
Institutional Coordination and Project Management. 
These components are discussed below. 
Animal Health  
Under the responsibility of the Animal and Plant Health Department of the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Irrigation, this component will support a national program to develop and 
implement HPAI prevention, containment, control, and eradication activities in the livestock 
sector of Afghanistan creating an effective system for improved bird health surveillance, 
diagnostic analysis and disease control in accordance with FAO/OIE standards. 
The key elements of this component are described below. 
Page  21
A.1.  Strengthening HPAI Control and Outbreak Containment Capacity 
A.1.a.
 
In support of efforts to control and contain the avian influenza emergency situations, 
the Project will support eight regional ERTs.  Each Team will be composed of four 
veterinarians, who will be equipped with all necessary material to carry out field investigation 
and culling operations.  The provisional list of minimum required equipment is as follows: 
rapid tests, personal protection equipment sets (PPEs), disinfectants, sprayers, motorized 
mist blowers, autopsy kits, culling bags, CO
2
cylinders, GPS, cell phones, maps, laboratory 
equipment for samples collection, storage (refrigerators and freezers) and sample 
transportation (liquid nitrogen tanks and cool boxes).  
ERTs in five ‘at-risk’ zones will be recruited within the first month of project effectiveness. 
The remaining ERTs in the rest of the zones shall be recruited no later than the 5
th
 month 
after project effectiveness.  The Project Coordinator (PC), Animal Health Coordinator and the 
Zone Coordinator with the assistance of the Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA) shall 
recruit the ERTs. In addition to the hired members of the ERTs, some staff of the PDA, in 
particular the district veterinarians shall also be part of the ERTs.   
A.1.b
.
Training for the ERTs.  Teams will be provided with technical operation manuals on 
samples collection, storage and transportation, outbreaks investigation, methods for culling 
and disposal of carcasses.  
A.1.c
.
Field simulation exercises will be organized for ERTs to check if emergency 
procedures could be duly implemented. 
A.1.d.
 
Procurement of vaccine for emergency and regular vaccination programs in the 
commercial and semi-commercial sector. It is estimated that a maximum of 6,000,000 doses 
of vaccines shall be necessary for the duration of the project life.  
A.1.e.  
Establishment and implementation of procedures to monitor the efficacy of the 
vaccine and to establish a monitoring program in commercial vaccinated flocks in order to be 
able to detect early incursions of the virus. 
A.1.f.
 
The project will procure a number of station wagons, pick ups, motor bicycles and 
truck in order to carry out timely and effectively above mentioned activities in the country. 
A.2. Human Safety Assurance 
A.2.a.
 
Extensive training activities will be carried out by ERTs for field veterinarians, field 
staff and farm workers on recognition of avian influenza and procedures of self-protection in 
case of handling suspected birds.  Training will include the procedures of activation of the 
ERTs. Each ERT will carry out three training sessions per year in order to cover the relevant 
satellite provinces. 
A.2.b.
 
Provision of PPEs for the ERTs, trainees, and State Veterinary Department (SVD) 
staff.  The Project will procure 10,000 (ten thousand) units composed of coveralls, boots, 
head-covers, masks, goggles and gloves. 
Page  22
A.3.  Strengthening HPAI clinical and laboratory diagnosis and 
surveillance for rapid and effective outbreak detection and containment 
capacity 
A.3.a.
 
Training and review the regulatory and legislation framework and development of 
guidelines for compensation scheme. 
A.3.b.
 
Improvement of information system is an essential component of the surveillance 
system, which will be enhanced through the procurement of different items aimed at 
improving the capacity of the State Veterinary Department to rationalize information collected 
through surveillance system.  Training will also be provided on the implementation of an 
ad-
hoc
 information system. 
A.3.c.
 
In order to strengthen disease surveillance capacity, training and preparation of 
guidelines and manuals will be provided for investigating diseases in the sub-component 
identified (rural, commercial and semi-commercial sectors, live bird markets and wetlands).  
A.3.d.
 
Field veterinarians involved in surveillance activities in wetlands will undertake a 
training course on sample collection and recognition of wild bird species, which are relevant 
to AI epidemiology. 
A.3.e.
 
The Central Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory in Kabul will be provided with laboratory 
equipment, reagents and consumables in support of surveillance activities.  Laboratory staff 
involved in diagnosis will undertake refreshing training courses on laboratory techniques. 
A4. Improving Bio-Security in Poultry Production 
Bio-security is perhaps the cheapest and most effective means of disease control available. 
No disease prevention program will work without it.  Bio-security is a concept for prevention 
of disease entry/escape that must be practiced by all farmers, cooperatives, abattoirs, 
transporters and retailers.  Lack of bio-security measures increases the risk of introducing 
disease or infection into the production unit, market, or any commercial operation.  Farm 
management practices and marketing systems influence the probability of poultry being 
challenged (and becoming infected) with HPAI. 
FAO, as part of its contract, will conduct studies to assess current levels of bio-security and 
impact assessments, preparation of manuals in bio-secure poultry production and marketing 
systems in backyard and semi-commercial systems.  The guidelines and relevant manuals 
would address bio-security issues from production to retailing.  The guidelines and manuals 
will be direct inputs to the WB-funded Horticulture and Livestock Project (HLP), which has a 
poultry production component.   
A.5. Compensation facilities 
The project will establish a compensation fund for farmers in order to reimburse them from 
the loss of domestic poultry due to HPAI.  
A.6. Technical Assistance – International Consultants 
International consultants will be recruited to provide technical expertise to national staff 
throughout the project. 
Page  23
A.7. Waste Management and Sanitation 
This sub-component will include the preparation of a national plan, standard guidelines and 
an operational manual for HPAI-related waste management, as well as equipment and 
supplies to support healthy and environmentally friendly disposal of culled animals, 
laboratory waste disposal and decontamination.  
Human Health  
Under the direction of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), this component will support a 
national program of activities to prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate the impact of human 
illness caused by avian or pandemic influenza.  Component activities will involve emergency 
and long-term developments to address priority gaps in disease surveillance, control and 
treatment.  It would also contribute to MOPH’s ongoing program for re-establishing public 
health capacity that was destroyed during decades of conflict.  
The key elements of this component are described below. 
B.1. Program Planning and Coordination  
B.1.a.
 
Recruitment of HH Coordinator and Command and Control Unit (CCU) Director. 
B.1.b.
 
Development of protocols and guidelines.  The AI guidelines have already been 
prepared by the World Health Organization (WHO) in English and translated in Dari; a team 
is working to translate this document in Pashto.  The USAID AI-related funds have been 
used to develop and translate these guidelines. 
B.1.c.
 
Training (surveillance personnel, Emergency Response Teams, health care workers, 
simulation exercises).  The Afghan Public Health Institute (APHI) has developed a detailed 
training plan for the training of relevant stakeholders involved in the control and management 
of the Avian Influenza cases and outbreaks.  Seventeen surveillance personnel from the 
Disease Early Warning System (DEWS) in eight regions of the country have been trained. 
The training was for one week and the issues which were covered were orientation to AI 
surveillance, AI case investigation and management, which were conducted by WHO and 
APHI.  These activities were financed through the USAID/WHO AI-related funding.  The 
DEWS officers have established 6-7 sentinel sites in each of the eight provinces and plan to 
train the DEWS focal points in subsequent priority provinces.  
B.2. Strengthening Disease Surveillance  
B.2.a.
 
MOPH Surveillance Unit will be established.  Activities involved include recruitment of 
staff- surveillance director and IT coordinator, procurement of communication equipment, 
furniture, computers, establishment of flue sentinel sites and procurement of pick ups. 
Eight regional flue sites have already been established in the eight regional centers, which 
include Kabul, Nangarhar, Paktia, Kandahar, Herat, Balkh, Badakhshan and Bamyan 
provinces.  At least 5-6 sentinel sites in each of these provinces have been established and 
partially equipped by WHO.  The project funds will be used to fully equip these sites and 
finance the recruitment of an AI coordinator.  
B.2.b.
 
National and Provincial Emergency Response Teams (ERT).  In order to build a 
sustainable structure for preparedness and response to the suspected AI outbreaks in the 
Page  24
c
ountry, APHI has trained 11 Emergency Response Teams (ERT) in the high risk provinces 
in the country.  Each team consists of the CDC focal point, a Lab technician and a 
veterinarian.  The teams are coordinated at the regional level by the DEWS regional officers.  
All ERTs have been equipped with PPE kits, thermometers, forms and other necessary 
equipment to conduct case investigations.  
The APHI/MOPH plans to train 5-10 National ERTs in the country as back up and support to 
the Provincial ERTs, with the aim to strengthen the national emergency response system in 
the country.  In addition, at least 23 other ERTs will be trained for 23 remaining provinces as 
part of the project activities.  APHI will need the support of its international partners to 
expand the curriculum for training and further technical assistance will also be necessary to 
train trainers and support regional training activities.  Therefore, a more elaborate training 
manual and guidelines need to be prepared and relevant training should be provided to the 
ERTs.  
B.3. Health Care System Capacity 
B.3.a.
 National and regional referral centers.  MOPH has designated 8 hospitals to have 
isolation wards for suspected AI case management.  These wards are located in the 8 
hospitals in 7 provinces of the country, namely Kabul (Indra Ghandi and Infectious Disease 
Hospitals), Nangarhar, Kandahar, Balkh, Badakhshan, Bamyan and Herat. 
The following activities are envisaged under the health care system capacity improvement: 
„\03
Renovation of the two selected hospitals in Kabul with enhanced bio-security measures 
(installation of ventilation equipment, incinerators and partitioning patient rooms), using 
the CDC fund.   
„\03
The two hospitals in Balkh and Herat provinces only require renovation since the 
buildings are relatively less damaged.  The allocated project financing shall be utilized to 
renovate these wards with enhanced bio-security enhanced. 
„\03
Substantial rehabilitation and furnishing is necessary for the selected hospitals in the 
remaining five provinces as the hospital buildings have been severely damaged.  
B.3.b.
 
Establishment of a warehousing capacity for project.  Warehouse capacity is nearly 
non-existent in the APHI and very limited elsewhere in the MOPH.  The central MOPH 
warehouse will be renovated as part of this component.  
B.3.c.
 
Procurement of PPE kits, antiviral and antimicrobial medications, seasonal flu 
vaccines and Rapid Diagnostic kits. 
B.3.d.
 
Surge mechanism, pandemic case management, social distancing.  Two separate 
workshops will be conducted and an international facilitator will be invited/hired to facilitate 
this process. Participants will be invited from different sectors, ministries, NGOs and UN 
organizations.  
Communication and Public Awareness 
Under the coordination of the communications specialist based at the AI Secretariat, and 
with the advise and technical assistance of the Communications Task-Team (including 
donors, and NGOs), the communications component will finance baseline research, design, 
test and implementation of a comprehensive and integrated communications strategy, to:  
Page  25
„\03
e
levate public awareness and promote behavior-change among at-risk and vulnerable 
populations, to control the spread of the virus;  
„\03
p
rovide visibility to the multi-sectoral response, and generate a sense of transparency 
and trust;  
„\03
maintain high-level political engagement during the different pandemic phases; and  
„\03
build upon the available communications infrastructure of various ministries and 
stakeholders, to foster an "enabling environment," where the community at large 
understands the possible threat, adopts preventive behaviors, supports programmatic 
activities, contributes with the reporting, social monitoring and self-reliance mechanisms.   
Implementation Support   
This component will support the institutional coordination and management of the Project. 
There will be no formal Project Implementation Unit, but staff within the MAI and MOHP 
would be assigned to a core support team to handle key functions including financial 
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, as well as 
compliance with the agreed environmental management framework.  The central 
coordination of the project will be in the Planning and Policy Department (PPD) of the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation.  Provisions under this component will include goods, 
services and operating expenditures for coordinating/managing project implementation.  
Implementation 
Partnership Arrangements  
In March 2006 as soon as the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation confirmed the existence of 
HPAI in the country, an inter-sectoral task force was established to prepare a National Avian 
Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (NAIPPRP).  The task force included 
representatives form Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL), Ministry of 
Public Health (MOPH), Ministry of Commerce (MOC), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and 
National Agency for Environmental Protection (NEPA), representatives of concerned donors 
and implementing organizations such as FAO, USAID, USDA, EU, ADB, WB, WHO and 
UNICEF.  The preparedness plan has now been finalized and it provides the basis for the 
present AI project.   
Institutional Arrangements 
Institutional arrangements are already in place and organized at central and field levels. 
They are consistent with GPAI standards in other countries. 
Central Level 
The main coordination entity for AI policies, strategy and action plans is the National AI 
Committee (NAIC) established in March 2006 under an inter-ministerial Cabinet level 
National Emergency Response Committee (NERC).  While the purpose of the NERC is to 
address country-wide coordination for any emergency, the NAIC focuses specifically on AI 
control and mitigation in the event of a major outbreak.  Headed by the Minster of 
Agriculture, the NAIC includes the Ministries of Public Health (MOPH), Rural Rehabilitation 
Page  26
a
nd Development (MRRD), Interior (MOI), and Commerce (MOC), as well as the National 
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). 
The NAIC is advised by a Technical Committee chaired by the Director of Veterinary 
Services of MAI which provides overall technical knowledge and shares data and information 
on AI.  The Technical Committee is composed by representative of the technical department 
of the interested government agencies.  WHO, UNICEF, FAO, US Department of Health and 
Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (HHS/CDC), several non-
governmental organizations, World Bank, European Commission, DFID and USAID are also 
participating members.  
By the same token a Financial Committee chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance advises 
NAIC on financial and budget issues related to AI activities, including annual budget 
allocations, coordinates and alignment of donor resources, and cash flow projections. 
Field Level 
Provincial AI Committees (PAICs) chaired by the Provincial Governor, coordinate and 
manage AI activities in the respective provinces.  Members of the PAIC include provincial 
representatives of MAI (Veterinary Services Division), Department of Public Health, 
Municipality, the Police Department, the border police (where relevant), MRRD and NEPA. 
The technical members of the PAIC will ensure that implementation of the various 
components of the project are in accordance with the stipulated standards, norms, rules and 
regulations 
–
not only technical but also social and cultural.  The implementation at field level 
will be the responsibility of the provincial and district level public health staff and veterinary 
staff with assistance from the staff of WHO, FAO, UNICEF, other multi- or bi-lateral support 
agencies, Veterinary Field Units (VFU), Afghan Veterinary Association (AVA) and local 
NGOs.  
Implementation Arrangements 
Overall and ultimate responsibility for project execution, successful implementation, 
accountability and outcomes will be with a newly established National Influenza Secretariat 
(NAIS), hosted in the General Department for Policy and Planning of the MAIL and 
integrated with an Implementation Support Team (IST) financed by the project and 
composed of locally and internationally recruited specialists.  
The IST will include an overall Project Coordinator, an Animal Health Coordinator, a Human 
Health Coordinator, a Communications Coordinator, a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, 
a
GIS specialist, two Financial Management Specialists, two Procurement Specialists, and 
one Safeguard specialist.  Most of the IST will be physically located in the General 
Department for Policy and Planning (GDPP) of the MAI, while the Human Health 
Coordinator, Procurement Specialist, and Financial Management Specialist under the 
Human Health component will be based in the Directorate of Afghan Public Health Institute 
(APHI) of the MOPH. In addition, the NAIS will include limited supported staff.  
The Project Coordinator will be nationally recruited and will report to the NAIS through the 
Director General of Livestock Services. The coordinators for each component will report to 
the NAIS through the Project Coordinator. 
Page  27
A
ctivities under the Animal Health Component will be organized and supervised by an 
Animal Health Coordinator, who for technical functions of the project will work in 
collaboration with the Director of the Animal and Plant Health Department, MAI.  Under the 
responsibility of the Animal Health Coordinator, the implementation of the component will be 
contracted to an implementing partner, which is expected to be FAO - subject to agreement 
on the technical and financial terms and conditions, and acceptance of the Bank standard 
clauses on fraud, corruption and external audit.  Draft TORs for the Animal Health 
Coordinator have been completed.  Draft TORs for the hiring of FAO have been agreed at 
appraisal for the first year. 
Activities under the Human Health Component will be organized and supervised by the 
Human Health Coordinator, who for technical functions of the project will work in 
collaboration with the relevant components of the MOPH.  The activities under the 
component will be outsourced to implementing partners, expected to be WHO and UNICEF, 
subject to agreement on the technical and financial terms and conditions, and acceptance of 
the Bank standard clauses on fraud, corruption and external audit.  Draft TORs for the hiring 
of WHO and UNICEF have been agreed at appraisal.   
Activities under the Communications and Public Awareness Component will be coordinated 
and supervised by a Communications Coordinator, supported by the Communications Task-
Team, and a short-term international consultant.  Communication activities will implemented 
mostly through a variety of partners and stakeholders, including the agricultural extension 
and health education teams of the MAI and MOPH, the communications infrastructure of the 
National Solidarity Program and Ministry of Education, NGOs working with media and 
community-radio, as well as UNICEF, if agreement on the technical and financial terms and 
conditions is reached, and subject to acceptance of the Bank standard clauses on fraud, 
corruption and external audit.  TORs for the hiring of technical assistance and the 
implementation of activities under the component have been agreed at appraisal. 
 
Page  28
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation 
This section discusses the potential impacts of the project activities on the environment and 
public health.  Also provided in this are the mitigation measures to reduce if not eliminate 
these adverse impacts.   
Environmental Screening 
As part of the environmental impact assessment process of the AI project, a screening matrix 
was developed - tailored specifically to the proposed project - focusing the potential 
environmental impacts that are likely to arise as a result of the project activities.  The matrix 
examined the interaction of the project activities with various components of the 
environment.  The impacts were broadly classified as physical, biological and social, and 
then each of these broad categories further divided into different aspects.  The potential 
impacts thus predicted were characterized in the matrix as follows: 
„\03
High negative (adverse) impact,  
„\03
Low negative impact,  
„\03
Insignificant impact,  
„\03
High positive (beneficial) impact,   
„\03
Low positive impact, and 
„\03
No impact. 
The negative impacts predicted in this manner were the ‘unmitigated’ impacts.  Appropriate 
mitigation measures were recommended as part of this EMP, thus reducing the occurrence 
possibility and severity of the potentially adverse impacts.   
The screening matrix is provided in 
Attachment 4.1
.
The negative impacts identified in this 
matrix are discussed in the following section. 
Environmental Impacts 
The potential adverse impacts of the project activities on environment and people are 
discussed below. 
Transportation of Viral Agents by Surveillance Teams 
During the project execution, the surveillance teams may be exposed to the AI virus.  
Improper handling of contaminated birds and bird products/wastes by these teams may 
transport and spread the disease, thus posing environmental as well as public health risks.  
This transportation can take place through contaminated team members, equipment, clothes 
and vehicles.  The adverse impacts include the following: 
„\03
Health hazard for the surveillance team members themselves.  
„\03
Health hazard for other people who come in contact with the team members or the 
contaminated clothes, equipment and vehicles. 
„\03
Spread of disease to other areas/poultry/wild bird populations. 
Page  29
„\03
C
ontamination of air, soil and water caused by the contaminated personnel, clothes, 
equipment and vehicles.   
T
he above threats exist during the surveillance of domestic/commercial poultry as well as for 
the wild birds.  
Handling, Culling and Transport of Infected and At-risk Birds   
Much like the potential adverse impacts of the surveillance activities (discussed above), the 
handling, culling and transport of any contaminated birds, bird products or waste (eggs, 
manure and feathers) and equipment (for example in open containers) may also pose 
environmental and public health risks for the project staff as well as the communities.  The 
following specific environmental / public health risks are likely to exist during the culling and 
associated activities: 
„\03
Health hazard for the culling team members (and other workers) themselves from the 
infected/dead birds, feathers, eggs, etc.  
„
\03
Health hazard for other people who come in contact with the team members or the 
contaminated clothes, equipment and vehicles. 
„\03
Health hazard for the community 
„\03
Health hazard associated with the handling of the culling agent (usually CO
2
gas) 
„\03
Spread of disease to other areas/poultry/wild bird populations during transportation of 
birds/carcasses. 
„\03
Contamination of air, soil and water caused by the contaminated personnel, clothes, 
equipment and vehicles.   
The above threats exist during the culling of domestic/commercial poultry as well as for the 
wild birds.  
Disposal of Carcasses  
Improper system/method for disposing of dead birds may cause the spread of disease and 
contamination of air and water.
 
This may also pose public health risks for the project staff 
and the communities.  Various options are available for the safe disposal of carcass; these 
are tabulated in 
Attachment 4.2
.
At this stage, the burial is considered to be the best option 
for Afghanistan, on the basis of the simplicity of burial process, low cost and availability of 
open spaces.  
In addition to the potential adverse impacts associated with the culling operation discussed 
above, the following specific environmental / public health risks are likely to exist during the 
carcass disposal activities: 
„\03
Contamination of soil, groundwater, surface water as a result of improper burial. 
„\03
Health risk to the nearby population who may come in contact with the improperly 
disposed carcasses and other infected materials (eggs, feathers, disposable PPEs, etc.) 
„\03
Spread of disease to new (un-infected) areas if the disposal site is away from the 
infected/culling site. 
„\03
Blockage of natural drainage resulting from inappropriate selection.  
Page  30
„\03
S
oil erosion resulting from improper backfilling and redressing the burial pit, and/or 
inappropriate site selection. 
„\03
S
afety hazard for the project staff and community resulting from improper backfilling of 
the pit, or keeping the pit uncovered for extended period of time. 
„\03
Damage to crops resulting from improper site selection for the burial pit. 
„\03
Blockage of existing routes resulting from improper site selection for the burial pit. 
„\03
Damage to natural flora and fauna, forests and wetlands, resulting from inappropriate 
burial site selection (eg, inside forests, or near wetlands). 
„\03
Damage to sites of archeological, cultural, historical or religious significance.  
Decontamination 
Improper decontamination procedure may expose project staff as well as the community to 
the decontaminant agents.  These can be summarized as follows: 
„\03
Spread of disease as a result of improper/inadequate decontamination. 
„\03
Health risk (intoxication) for the project staff carrying out the disinfection. 
„\03
Health risk for the community where the decontamination is carried out. 
„\03
Contamination of soil and water by the decontamination agents.   
„\03
Damage to natural flora and fauna caused by the decontaminant agent. 
„\03
Damage to the crops caused by the decontaminant agent.  
Cross-contamination, Spread of Infections and Waste Disposal from 
Hospitals, Clinics and Diagnostic Laboratories 
Unsafe procedures in hospitals and laboratory can cause cross-contamination and/or spread 
of infections among the staff, patients and general public.  In addition, improper disposal of 
wastes from the facilities to be supported by the project may pose environmental and public 
health risks.  Specifically, the following risks are associated with the improper disposal of 
wastes from these facilities:  
„\03
Health risk for the hospital/laboratory staff and people coming in contact with them. 
„\03
Health risk for the personnel handling the wastes. 
„\03
Contamination of soil and water. 
„\03
Health risk for the nearby population. 
„\03
Threat to wildlife particularly when such facilities are located outside major towns.  
Construction Activities 
Construction activities as part of the AI project may contaminate air and water.  The following 
specific environmental impacts may be caused by these activities: 
„\03
Air pollution caused by the exhaust from the vehicles and construction equipment. 
Page  31
„\03
W
ater contamination as a result of construction activities, repair of construction 
machinery/vehicles at site. 
„\03
I
nappropriate disposal of construction waste may cause soil and water contamination, as 
well as public nuisance.  
„\03
Noise from the construction activities may be a source of nuisance to the nearby people 
(patients, staff, nearby population, etc.) 
„\03
Safety hazard for the project staff, clinic/hospital staff, patients, visitors and others.  
Mitigation Measures  
The mitigation measures to forestall or reduce the adverse environmental and public health 
risks discussed above, are tabulated in 
Attachment 4.3
 and discussed below. 
Transportation of Viral Agents by Surveillance Teams 
To mitigate the potential risks and adverse impacts associated with the surveillance 
activities, the following measures will become the integral part of the project activities: 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for safe handling of 
poultry birds and their products, wastes, etc. 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for safe handling of 
wild birds. 
„\03
Coordination with NEPA and forest department for surveillance of wild birds.  
„\03
Provision and use of PPEs for the surveillance teams 
„\03
Trainings to the surveillance teams on the safe procedures, use of PPEs, environmental 
aspects and mitigation measures. 
„\03
Awareness raising of the communities on identification of AI and safe handling 
procedures.  
Handling, Culling and Transport of Infected and At-risk Birds   
To mitigate the potential risks and adverse impacts associated with the culling activities, the 
following measures will become the integral part of the project activities: 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for safe culling of 
poultry birds. 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for safe culling of 
wild birds. 
„\03
Coordination with NEPA and forest department for culling of wild birds, particularly in 
protected areas.  
„\03
Provision and use of PPEs for the culling teams. 
„\03
Trainings to the culling teams on the safe culling procedures, use of PPEs, 
environmental aspects and mitigation measures.  
Page  32
„\03
A
wareness raising of the communities on the importance of culling, safe procedures, bio-
security and precautionary measures.  
Disposal of Carcasses   
To mitigate the potential risks and adverse impacts associated with the carcass disposal, the 
following measures will become the integral part of the project activities: 
„
\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for selection of 
appropriate site for the burial pit.  The criteria for site selection will include aspects such 
as the following: 
X\03
In consultation with the community 
X\03
outside the community,  
X\03
outside cultivation fields,  
X\03
without blocking any existing routes 
X\03
at a safe distance from any groundwater well/water stream/water channel,  
X\03
avoiding natural path of rainwater drainage,  
X\03
away from any places of historical, cultural, archeological or religious significance 
X\03
away from wetlands 
X\03
no damage to trees or any other flora of significance.  
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures for adequate and safe backfilling of 
the burial pits. 
„\03
Provision and use of PPEs during the burial operation.  
„\03
Trainings to the burial teams on the safe burial procedures, use of PPEs, environmental 
aspects and mitigation measures.  
„\03
Awareness raising of the communities on the importance of safe burial and 
precautionary measures.  
„\03
Coordination with NEPA and forest department for burial of wild birds, particularly in 
forests, protected areas or near wetlands.  
Decontamination 
To mitigate the potential risks and adverse impacts associated with the decontamination of 
the infected areas, the following measures will become the integral part of the project 
activities: 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for decontamination.    
„\03
Provision and use of PPEs during the decontamination operation.  
„\03
Trainings to the field teams on the safe contamination procedures, use of PPEs, 
environmental aspects and mitigation measures.  
„\03
Awareness raising of the communities on the importance of decontamination and 
precautionary measures.  
Page  33
Cross-contamination, Spread of Infections, and Waste Disposal from 
Hospitals, Clinics and Diagnostic Laboratories 
The following measures will ensure that the waste disposal from the hospitals, clinics and 
laboratories do not cause significant environmental and/or public health risks: 
„\03
Implementation of bio-safety level standards in the laboratories. 
„\03
Implementation of standard safety procedures and use of PPEs, in order to avoid cross-
contamination and spread of infections from the hospitals and laboratories. 
„\03
Development and implementation of the procedures and guidelines for segregation, 
handling and disposal of wastes from hospitals, clinics and laboratories supported by the 
project. 
5
„\03
Appropriate design of disposal wells. 
„\03
Provision and use of PPEs during the waste handling and disposal.  
„
\03
Training of hospitals and laboratory staff on bio-safety level standards and safe 
practices.  
„\03
Trainings to the waste disposal teams on the safe waste handling procedures, use of 
PPEs, environmental aspects and mitigation measures.  
„\03
Awareness raising of the other staff on the importance of safe waste disposal.  
Construction Activities   
In order to mitigate the environmental impacts that may be caused by the construction 
activities, the following mitigation and control measures will be enforced: 
„\03
The standard good construction practices will be implemented.  In particular, the 
following steps/measures will be undertaken: 
X\03
The construction machinery and vehicles will be kept in good working condition, 
avoiding excessive exhaust emissions. 
X\03
Waste effluents (such as used oils) and contaminated water will not be released to 
the environment. 
X\03
Construction waste will be disposed appropriately. 
X\03
Excess construction material and scrap will not be left at the construction site. 
X\03
Noise emissions will be minimized through appropriate means (using equipment in 
good working condition and having silencers, using sound barriers, if needed, etc.) 
X\03
Safety hazard for the construction crew and the hospital/lab staff will be minimized 
through appropriate safety procedures, use of PPEs, and restricting unauthorized 
entry into the construction area. 
„\03
Environmental training to the construction staff/crew on good construction practices, 
waste disposal, safety aspects and public nuisance.  
5
The waste disposal guidelines will be applicable to other similar facilities as well.
 
Page  34
Residual Environmental Impacts  
With the help of the mitigation and control measures discussed in Section 4.3 above, the 
adverse environmental impacts and health risks will be minimized to safe levels.  
Attachment 4.4
 presents the residual impacts of the project activities.  
Page  35
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
8
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
1
:
S
c
r
e
e
n
i
n
g
M
a
t
r
i
x
(
U
n
-
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
e
d
)
P
h
y
s
i
c
a
l
B
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
S
o
c
i
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
o
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
 Soil Erosion / Contamination 
Air Quality 
Surface Water Quality 
Groundwater Quality 
 Water Availability and Consumption  
Natural Vegetation 
Wildlife 
Land Acquisition 
Agriculture / Poultry 
Blocked Access 
Noise and Vibration 
Safety Hazard 
 Employment/Earning Opportunities 
Infrastructure 
 Public Health (Health hazard for 
 project staff and communities) 
Aesthetic Value 
 Sites of Archeological, Historical or 
Cultural Significance - 
 Impacts on Indigenous People 
D
i
s
e
a
s
e
S
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
-
2
-
1
-
2
0
N
N
-
2
N
-
2
N
N
N
N
N
-
2
N
N
N
C
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
-
2
-
1
-
2
-
1
N
N
-
2
N
-
2
N
N
N
+
1
N
-
2
N
N
N
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
-
2
-
1
-
2
-
2
N
-
1
-
2
0
-
2
-
1
0
-
1
+
1
N
-
2
N
-
1
N
D
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
-
2
-
1
-
2
-
1
N
-
1
-
1
N
-
1
N
N
N
N
N
-
2
N
N
N
C
r
o
s
s
-
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
,
S
p
r
e
a
d
o
f
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
W
a
s
t
e
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
f
r
o
m
H
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
s
a
n
d
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
i
e
s
-
2
0
-
2
-
2
N
0
-
1
0
0
0
N
-
1
N
N
-
2
N
N
N
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
-
1
-
1
-
2
-
1
-
1
0
0
N
N
0
-
1
-
1
+
1
0
-
2
-
1
N
N
K
e
y
:
-
2
:
H
i
g
h
n
e
g
a
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
-
1
:
L
o
w
n
e
g
a
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
0
:
i
n
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
/
n
e
g
l
i
g
i
b
l
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
+
1
:
l
o
w
p
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
+
2
:
H
i
g
h
p
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
,
N
:
n
o
i
m
p
a
c
t
.
Page  36
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
9
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
2
:
C
o
m
p
a
r
i
s
o
n
o
f
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
M
e
t
h
o
d
s
f
o
r
A
n
i
m
a
l
W
a
s
t
e
s
G
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
f
r
o
m
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
O
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
s
6
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
O
p
t
i
o
n
1
:
B
u
r
i
a
l
i
n
a
P
i
t
D
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
o
f
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
/
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
a
p
i
t
a
n
d
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
E
x
c
a
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
b
u
r
i
a
l
p
i
t
.
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
i
n
a
d
e
e
p
b
u
r
i
a
l
p
i
t
.
·
C
o
v
e
r
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
w
i
t
h
s
o
i
l
(
a
b
o
u
t
4
0
c
m
)
t
o
:
(
a
)
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
r
i
s
i
n
g
o
u
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
i
t
;
(
b
)
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
s
c
a
v
e
n
g
e
r
s
d
i
g
g
i
n
g
u
p
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
;
(
c
)
h
e
l
p
f
i
l
t
e
r
o
u
t
o
d
o
r
s
;
a
n
d
(
d
)
a
b
s
o
r
b
t
h
e
f
l
u
i
d
s
o
f
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
.
·
A
d
d
i
n
g
a
n
u
n
b
r
o
k
e
n
l
a
y
e
r
o
f
s
l
a
k
e
d
l
i
m
e
[
C
a
(
O
H
)
2
]
t
o
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
b
e
i
n
g
u
n
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
b
y
c
a
r
n
i
v
o
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
a
r
t
h
w
o
r
m
s
a
f
t
e
r
p
i
t
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
(
l
i
m
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
s
,
b
o
r
e
s
,
a
n
d
d
u
g
w
e
l
l
s
.
·
H
e
i
g
h
t
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
(
t
h
e
b
a
s
e
o
f
t
h
e
p
i
t
m
u
s
t
b
e
w
e
l
l
a
b
o
v
e
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
)
.
·
S
l
o
p
e
o
f
t
h
e
l
a
n
d
a
t
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
t
o
t
h
e
n
e
a
r
e
s
t
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
u
r
s
e
(
d
r
a
i
n
a
g
e
t
o
a
n
d
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
p
i
t
)
.
·
S
o
i
l
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
.
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
p
u
b
l
i
c
l
a
n
d
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
r
o
a
d
s
)
.
·
P
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
(
f
o
r
o
d
o
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
)
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
s
p
a
c
e
f
o
r
t
e
m
p
o
r
a
r
y
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
f
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
e
d
s
o
i
l
.
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
b
y
d
i
g
g
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
,
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
o
r
)
.
B
u
r
i
a
l
S
i
t
e
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
:
T
h
r
e
e
(
3
)
m
o
n
t
h
s
a
f
t
e
r
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
,
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
b
u
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
t
o
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
a
n
y
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
s
(
e
.
g
.
,
s
e
e
p
a
g
e
)
a
n
d
t
a
k
e
c
o
r
r
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
-
R
e
l
a
t
e
d
/
·
U
s
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
a
l
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
P
P
E
)
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
,
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
a
n
d
r
e
s
c
u
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
i
f
t
h
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
f
a
l
l
s
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
p
i
t
)
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
/
W
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
a
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
S
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
S
i
t
e
:
I
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
e
d
o
f
f
-
s
i
t
e
f
o
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
,
t
h
e
n
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
e
a
k
-
p
r
o
o
f
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
S
a
f
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
i
f
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
m
e
t
.
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
c
a
n
b
e
a
v
o
i
d
e
d
i
f
b
u
r
i
a
l
c
a
n
b
e
d
o
n
e
o
n
s
i
t
e
.
·
L
o
w
c
o
s
t
.
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
L
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
b
e
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
o
r
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
·
I
f
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
a
n
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
s
i
t
e
i
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
,
t
h
e
n
:
(
a
)
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
s
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
,
a
n
d
(
b
)
h
i
g
h
e
r
c
o
s
t
s
f
o
r
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
i
f
s
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
.
6
S
o
u
r
c
e
:
I
n
t
e
r
i
m
G
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
f
o
r
M
a
n
a
g
i
n
g
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
a
l
S
a
f
e
g
u
a
r
d
I
s
s
u
e
s
i
n
B
a
n
k
-
a
s
s
i
s
t
e
d
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
.
Q
u
a
l
i
t
y
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
a
n
d
A
s
s
u
r
a
n
c
e
U
n
i
t
.
W
o
r
l
d
B
a
n
k
.
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
6
.
Page  37
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
0
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
b
e
p
l
a
c
e
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
o
n
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
i
n
w
e
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
s
l
o
w
s
,
a
n
d
m
a
y
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
,
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
)
.
·
C
l
o
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
p
i
t
t
o
g
r
o
u
n
d
l
e
v
e
l
w
i
t
h
s
o
i
l
(
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
2
m
e
t
e
r
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
i
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
i
n
t
o
t
a
l
)
.
W
a
s
t
e
/
W
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
T
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
:
·
A
n
y
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
f
r
o
m
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
/
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
e
f
o
r
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
.
·
A
n
y
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
/
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
s
a
f
e
l
y
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
d
.
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
.
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
l
,
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
f
t
e
r
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
s
i
t
e
.
O
p
t
i
o
n
2
:
O
p
e
n
A
i
r
B
u
r
n
i
n
g
(
C
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
o
p
e
n
a
i
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
D
i
g
g
i
n
g
t
r
e
n
c
h
e
s
,
w
h
i
c
h
a
c
t
a
s
a
i
r
v
e
n
t
s
.
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
p
y
r
e
(
w
o
o
d
)
o
n
t
o
p
o
f
t
r
e
n
c
h
e
s
(
u
p
w
i
n
d
,
a
t
r
i
g
h
t
a
n
g
l
e
t
o
t
h
e
p
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
)
.
·
P
l
a
c
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
o
p
p
o
s
i
t
e
s
i
d
e
.
·
P
o
u
r
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
(
e
.
g
.
,
k
e
r
o
s
e
n
e
)
o
n
t
o
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
n
d
p
y
r
e
a
n
d
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
d
v
e
r
s
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
o
f
h
e
a
t
,
s
m
o
k
e
o
r
o
d
o
r
o
n
n
e
a
r
b
y
p
e
o
p
l
e
,
i
n
f
r
a
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
(
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
,
u
n
d
e
r
g
r
o
u
n
d
a
n
d
a
e
r
i
a
l
u
t
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
,
r
o
a
d
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
a
n
d
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
,
t
r
e
e
s
)
.
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
t
o
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
a
n
d
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
t
h
e
f
i
r
e
a
n
d
f
o
r
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
o
f
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
·
T
h
e
a
s
h
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
b
u
r
i
e
d
a
n
d
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
s
t
o
r
e
d
.
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
·
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
·
M
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
f
i
r
e
b
r
e
a
k
a
r
o
u
n
d
t
h
e
p
y
r
e
(
c
o
n
s
u
l
t
l
o
c
a
l
f
i
r
e
b
r
i
g
a
d
e
s
o
r
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
a
d
v
i
c
e
)
.
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
,
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
i
f
f
i
r
e
s
p
r
e
a
d
s
a
r
o
u
n
d
)
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
,
a
n
d
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
·
L
o
w
c
o
s
t
,
c
o
m
p
a
r
e
d
t
o
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
t
i
o
n
.
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
f
c
o
m
b
u
s
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
s
i
n
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
,
e
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
l
y
u
n
d
e
r
a
d
v
e
r
s
e
a
t
m
o
s
p
h
e
r
i
c
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
(
w
i
n
d
,
p
r
e
c
i
p
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
)
.
·
I
t
i
s
n
o
t
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
t
o
e
a
s
i
l
y
v
e
r
i
f
y
t
h
a
t
a
l
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
a
r
e
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
i
n
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
c
o
m
b
u
s
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
.
·
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
o
p
e
n
a
i
r
b
u
r
n
i
n
g
(
P
M
,
C
O
2
)
.
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
a
s
h
f
r
o
m
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
s
Page  38
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
1
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
s
t
a
r
t
i
n
g
f
i
r
e
(
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
s
u
p
p
l
y
o
f
f
u
e
l
m
u
s
t
b
e
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
)
.
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
c
r
e
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
f
o
r
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
t
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
·
M
o
r
e
e
x
p
e
n
s
i
v
e
t
h
a
n
o
p
t
i
o
n
1
(
b
u
r
i
a
l
)
.
O
p
t
i
o
n
3
:
C
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
a
c
t
i
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
l
i
t
t
e
r
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
a
e
r
o
b
i
c
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
.
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
o
f
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
d
e
p
e
n
d
s
o
n
:
(
a
)
p
r
o
p
e
r
n
u
t
r
i
e
n
t
m
i
x
;
(
b
)
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
;
(
c
)
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
;
a
n
d
(
d
)
p
H
.
D
e
t
a
i
l
s
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
i
n
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
w
e
b
s
i
t
e
s
l
i
s
t
e
d
.
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
M
u
s
t
b
e
d
o
n
e
a
t
t
h
e
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
f
a
r
m
i
n
a
s
e
c
u
r
e
a
r
e
a
n
o
t
a
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
l
e
b
y
o
t
h
e
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
(
s
u
c
h
a
s
b
i
r
d
s
,
r
o
d
e
n
t
s
,
c
a
t
s
,
o
r
d
o
g
s
)
.
·
P
r
o
x
i
m
i
t
y
t
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
(
m
u
s
t
b
e
a
w
a
y
)
.
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
a
f
e
t
y
b
r
e
a
c
h
e
s
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
f
o
r
m
a
n
u
r
e
a
n
d
l
i
t
t
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
.
·
C
a
n
b
e
u
n
d
e
r
t
a
k
e
n
w
i
t
h
i
n
s
h
e
d
s
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
w
i
s
e
o
n
s
i
t
e
t
o
a
v
o
i
d
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
.
·
N
o
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
.
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
M
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
p
t
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
m
a
n
y
d
a
y
s
i
n
c
o
l
d
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
a
r
e
a
s
/
s
e
a
s
o
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
(
o
r
m
a
y
b
e
c
o
s
t
l
y
)
.
·
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
i
f
i
d
e
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
n
o
t
a
c
h
i
e
v
e
d
.
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
i
f
t
h
e
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
i
s
n
o
t
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
s
e
c
u
r
e
d
/
i
s
o
l
a
t
e
d
.
·
I
t
m
a
y
n
o
t
b
e
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
t
o
e
a
s
i
l
y
v
e
r
i
f
y
t
h
a
t
a
l
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
a
r
e
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
.
O
p
t
i
o
n
5
:
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
(
F
i
x
e
d
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
a
n
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
S
i
t
e
S
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
:
·
S
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
i
n
a
f
l
o
o
d
p
l
a
i
n
.
·
D
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
.
·
H
u
m
a
n
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
u
p
w
i
n
d
o
f
t
h
e
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
(
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
m
u
s
t
c
h
a
n
g
e
t
h
e
i
r
P
P
E
b
e
f
o
r
e
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
)
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
.
·
O
v
e
r
9
5
%
w
a
s
t
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
.
Page  39
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
2
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
i
n
a
n
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
.
·
C
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
,
w
i
t
h
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
o
f
t
h
e
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
(
u
s
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
a
i
r
)
a
t
a
h
i
g
h
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
.
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
)
t
o
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
t
t
h
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
.
p
r
e
v
a
i
l
i
n
g
w
i
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
(
f
o
r
o
d
o
r
s
b
e
f
o
r
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
)
.
T
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
:
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
t
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
o
f
8
5
0
o
C
a
n
d
w
i
t
h
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
c
e
t
i
m
e
o
f
2
s
e
c
o
n
d
s
.
T
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
u
s
t
b
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
d
a
n
d
r
e
c
o
r
d
e
d
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
n
a
u
x
i
l
i
a
r
y
b
u
r
n
e
r
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
b
e
s
w
i
t
c
h
e
d
o
n
w
h
e
n
t
h
e
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
f
a
l
l
s
b
e
l
o
w
8
5
0
o
C
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
f
e
e
d
s
y
s
t
e
m
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
e
d
t
o
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
.
·
S
i
t
e
s
e
c
u
r
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
a
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
b
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
(
s
u
c
h
a
s
b
i
r
d
s
,
r
o
d
e
n
t
s
,
i
n
s
e
c
t
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
v
e
r
m
i
n
)
.
·
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
r
e
a
s
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
T
h
e
s
e
a
r
e
a
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
a
b
e
l
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
e
d
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
.
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
t
o
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
s
t
o
r
m
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
f
r
o
m
s
p
i
l
l
a
g
e
o
r
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
.
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
)
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
,
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
,
f
i
r
e
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
)
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
/
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
,
s
a
f
e
t
y
a
n
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
·
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
,
w
i
t
h
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
s
a
n
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
/
W
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
S
i
t
e
:
W
h
e
n
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
r
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
f
i
x
e
d
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
,
t
h
e
n
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
l
e
a
k
-
p
r
o
o
f
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
;
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
t
h
e
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
x
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
w
h
i
c
h
m
a
y
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
c
o
u
n
t
r
y
.
·
H
i
g
h
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
c
o
s
t
.
·
H
i
g
h
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
o
s
t
(
e
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
l
y
f
u
e
l
c
o
s
t
)
.
·
S
o
m
e
s
p
a
r
e
p
a
r
t
s
m
a
y
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
(
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
t
i
m
e
o
f
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
)
.
·
H
i
g
h
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
.
·
S
c
r
u
t
i
n
i
z
e
d
a
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
(
r
e
c
o
r
d
k
e
e
p
i
n
g
,
e
t
c
.
)
.
·
T
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
m
a
y
b
e
t
o
o
f
a
r
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
,
r
e
q
u
i
r
i
n
g
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
v
e
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
:
(
a
)
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
;
a
n
d
(
b
)
h
i
g
h
e
r
c
o
s
t
s
f
o
r
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
P
M
,
S
O
2
,
C
O
2
)
.
Page  40
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
3
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
.
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
a
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
.
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
;
a
n
d
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
l
/
e
x
t
e
r
n
a
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
f
t
e
r
u
n
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
t
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
S
i
t
e
:
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
·
T
h
e
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
r
e
a
w
i
t
h
o
u
t
f
i
r
s
t
b
e
i
n
g
t
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
.
O
p
t
i
o
n
6
:
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
(
M
o
b
i
l
e
)
T
h
i
s
m
e
t
h
o
d
i
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
a
n
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
.
I
t
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
s
:
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
(
u
s
i
n
g
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
a
i
r
)
a
t
a
h
i
g
h
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
.
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
T
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
:
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
t
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
o
f
8
5
0
o
C
a
n
d
w
i
t
h
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
c
e
t
i
m
e
o
f
2
s
e
c
o
n
d
s
.
T
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
u
s
t
b
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
d
a
n
d
r
e
c
o
r
d
e
d
.
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
n
a
u
x
i
l
i
a
r
y
b
u
r
n
e
r
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
b
e
s
w
i
t
c
h
e
d
o
n
w
h
e
n
t
h
e
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
f
a
l
l
s
b
e
l
o
w
8
5
0
o
C
·
I
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
f
e
e
d
s
y
s
t
e
m
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
e
d
t
o
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
.
·
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
r
e
a
s
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
i
d
t
b
d
T
h
·
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
a
t
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
(
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
m
u
s
t
c
h
a
n
g
e
t
h
e
i
r
P
P
E
b
e
f
o
r
e
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
)
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
E
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
a
n
d
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
e
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
/
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
/
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
,
f
i
r
s
t
a
i
d
,
f
i
r
e
f
i
h
t
i
)
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
.
·
O
v
e
r
9
5
%
w
a
s
t
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
.
·
A
v
o
i
d
s
t
h
e
n
e
e
d
t
o
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
t
h
e
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
p
a
t
h
o
g
e
n
s
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
i
.
e
.
,
r
e
d
u
c
e
d
r
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
s
i
t
e
s
c
o
m
p
a
r
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
f
i
x
e
d
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
c
a
s
e
)
.
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
:
·
C
o
m
p
l
e
x
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
w
h
i
c
h
m
a
y
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
c
o
u
n
t
r
y
.
·
H
i
g
h
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
h
i
g
h
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
Page  41
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
4
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
S
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
A
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
/
D
i
s
a
d
v
a
n
t
a
g
e
s
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
)
t
o
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
t
t
h
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
.
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
.
T
h
e
s
e
a
r
e
a
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
v
e
n
t
i
l
a
t
e
d
,
l
a
b
e
l
e
d
,
a
n
d
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
e
d
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
t
o
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
.
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
.
·
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
o
t
t
o
m
a
s
h
/
s
l
a
g
a
n
d
f
l
y
a
s
h
i
n
a
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
l
a
n
d
f
i
l
l
.
W
a
s
t
e
P
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
/
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
:
T
o
a
v
o
i
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
o
x
i
n
s
o
r
f
u
r
a
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
p
r
e
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
a
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
o
r
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
P
V
C
b
a
g
s
.
F
o
r
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
r
e
a
s
o
n
,
n
o
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
d
e
s
t
i
n
e
d
f
o
r
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
c
h
l
o
r
i
n
e
-
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
f
i
g
h
t
i
n
g
)
·
P
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
h
y
g
i
e
n
e
/
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
,
s
a
f
e
t
y
a
n
d
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
c
o
s
t
.
·
S
o
m
e
s
p
a
r
e
p
a
r
t
s
m
a
y
n
e
e
d
t
o
b
e
i
m
p
o
r
t
e
d
(
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
t
i
m
e
o
f
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
A
I
o
u
t
b
r
e
a
k
)
.
·
H
i
g
h
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
.
·
S
c
r
u
t
i
n
i
z
e
d
a
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
(
r
e
c
o
r
d
k
e
e
p
i
n
g
,
e
t
c
.
)
.
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
i
s
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
:
(
a
)
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
o
f
e
x
p
o
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
i
.
e
.
,
t
h
e
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
)
t
o
d
a
m
a
g
e
/
t
o
t
a
l
l
o
s
s
i
n
c
a
s
e
o
f
a
n
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
(
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
d
b
y
p
o
o
r
r
o
a
d
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
,
s
e
v
e
r
e
w
e
a
t
h
e
r
,
e
t
c
.
)
;
a
n
d
(
b
)
h
i
g
h
c
o
s
t
o
f
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
t
o
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
.
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
b
y
t
h
e
m
o
b
i
l
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
.
·
A
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
i
n
c
i
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
P
M
,
S
O
2
,
C
O
2
)
.
Page  42
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
5
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
3
:
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
P
l
a
n
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
A
n
i
m
a
l
H
e
a
l
t
h
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
o
f
v
i
r
a
l
a
g
e
n
t
s
b
y
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
t
e
a
m
s
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
.
U
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
.
D
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
,
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
f
t
e
r
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
i
n
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
/
a
t
r
i
s
k
a
r
e
a
s
.
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
.
S
t
a
f
f
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
i
n
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
P
r
e
s
e
n
c
e
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
.
A
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
.
S
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
t
e
a
m
s
.
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
S
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
i
n
g
A
n
i
m
a
l
D
i
s
e
a
s
e
S
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
D
i
a
g
n
o
s
t
i
c
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
c
r
o
s
s
-
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
r
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
u
s
e
d
b
y
v
i
r
a
l
a
g
e
n
t
s
.
P
o
o
r
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
l
a
b
w
a
s
t
e
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
B
i
o
-
s
a
f
e
t
y
L
e
v
e
l
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
8
b
y
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
u
p
g
r
a
d
i
n
g
o
f
l
a
b
s
a
n
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
f
s
t
a
f
f
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
l
y
a
c
c
e
p
t
e
d
l
a
b
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
9
.
(
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
,
b
a
s
e
d
u
p
o
n
t
h
e
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
b
e
s
t
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
a
n
d
t
h
e
l
o
c
a
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
)
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
e
m
i
s
e
s
,
s
t
a
f
f
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
d
i
a
g
n
o
s
t
i
c
l
a
b
s
,
p
r
i
o
r
t
o
i
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
t
s
i
x
m
o
n
t
h
i
n
t
e
r
v
a
l
s
t
h
e
r
e
a
f
t
e
r
.
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
s
t
a
f
f
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
i
t
s
i
n
c
h
a
r
g
e
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
7
T
a
b
l
e
a
d
o
p
t
e
d
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
o
n
e
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
A
n
n
e
x
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
.
8
D
e
t
a
i
l
s
o
n
b
i
o
-
s
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
m
i
c
r
o
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
n
d
b
i
o
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
i
e
s
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
a
t
t
h
e
C
D
C
w
e
b
s
i
t
e
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
c
d
c
.
g
o
v
/
o
d
/
o
h
s
/
p
d
f
f
i
l
e
s
/
4
t
h
%
2
0
b
m
b
l
.
p
d
f
a
n
d
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
f
o
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
i
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
-
c
a
r
e
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
(
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
a
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
c
d
c
a
n
d
t
h
e
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
a
r
e
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
a
d
v
i
s
o
r
y
c
o
m
m
i
t
t
e
e
-
h
i
c
p
a
c
)
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
a
t
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
c
d
c
.
g
o
v
/
m
m
w
r
/
p
r
e
v
i
e
w
/
m
m
w
r
h
t
m
l
/
r
r
5
2
1
0
a
1
.
h
t
m
9
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
w
h
o
.
i
n
t
/
c
s
r
/
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
/
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
/
b
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
/
B
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
7
.
p
d
f
Page  43
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
6
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
P
o
s
e
s
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
s
p
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
a
n
d
o
f
e
x
p
o
s
u
r
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
.
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
t
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
l
y
c
h
i
l
d
r
e
n
,
b
r
i
n
g
i
n
g
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
t
o
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
b
i
r
d
s
.
P
o
l
i
c
y
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
m
a
n
u
a
l
f
o
r
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
n
g
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
a
d
w
i
l
d
b
i
r
d
s
a
n
d
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
b
i
r
d
s
f
o
r
s
a
m
p
l
i
n
g
p
u
r
p
o
s
e
s
.
(
D
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
b
y
E
W
M
S
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
f
i
r
s
t
t
h
r
e
e
m
o
n
t
h
s
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
.
)
P
u
b
l
i
c
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
w
a
r
n
i
n
g
s
f
o
r
p
e
o
p
l
e
b
r
i
n
g
i
n
g
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
t
o
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
o
r
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
U
s
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
(
P
P
E
)
,
H
a
z
M
a
t
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
s
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
,
d
e
s
c
r
i
b
e
d
b
e
l
o
w
.
D
u
r
i
n
g
r
e
g
u
l
a
r
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
,
v
e
r
i
f
y
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
a
n
d
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
.
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
h
e
a
l
t
h
s
t
a
t
u
s
/
r
e
c
o
r
d
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
d
i
n
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
/
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
/
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
.
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
C
u
l
l
i
n
g
o
f
b
i
r
d
s
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
t
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
l
y
c
h
i
l
d
r
e
n
,
b
r
i
n
g
i
n
g
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
t
o
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
b
i
r
d
s
.
P
o
s
e
s
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
s
p
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
a
n
d
o
f
e
x
p
o
s
u
r
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
.
R
i
s
k
s
o
f
i
n
t
o
x
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
w
h
e
n
u
s
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
w
a
r
n
i
n
g
s
f
o
r
p
e
o
p
l
e
b
r
i
n
g
i
n
g
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
t
o
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
o
r
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
,
W
H
O
,
N
A
B
C
C
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
o
n
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
.
1
0
V
e
r
i
f
y
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
i
n
O
M
a
n
d
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
b
l
e
a
n
d
c
l
e
a
n
a
b
l
e
P
P
E
g
e
a
r
t
o
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
f
u
l
l
b
o
d
y
c
o
v
e
r
,
i
m
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
l
e
a
p
r
o
n
,
g
l
o
v
e
s
,
e
y
e
g
o
g
g
l
e
s
,
f
i
n
e
p
a
r
t
i
c
l
e
m
a
s
k
f
o
r
v
i
r
u
s
,
e
a
r
p
l
u
g
s
b
o
o
t
s
o
r
s
h
o
e
c
o
v
e
r
s
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
1
0
G
u
i
d
a
n
c
e
o
n
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
,
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
,
w
o
r
k
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
,
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
H
P
A
I
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
h
i
g
h
l
y
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
z
o
o
n
o
t
i
c
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
s
,
a
s
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
,
a
r
e
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
t
h
e
f
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
e
d
r
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
s
:
f
s
s
.
k
-
s
t
a
t
e
.
e
d
u
/
r
e
s
e
a
r
c
h
/
b
o
o
k
s
/
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
d
i
s
p
.
h
t
m
l
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
d
e
f
r
a
.
g
o
v
.
u
k
/
a
n
i
m
a
l
h
/
b
y
-
p
r
o
d
s
/
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
/
d
i
s
p
g
u
i
d
e
.
p
d
f
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
o
i
e
.
i
n
t
/
d
o
w
n
l
d
/
A
V
I
A
N
%
2
0
I
N
F
L
U
E
N
Z
A
/
A
_
G
H
_
C
A
R
C
A
S
S
.
p
d
f
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
f
a
o
.
o
r
g
/
D
O
C
R
E
P
/
0
0
4
/
y
0
6
6
0
E
0
0
.
h
t
m
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
o
s
h
a
.
g
o
v
/
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
/
O
S
H
A
3
1
1
4
/
o
s
h
a
3
1
1
4
.
h
t
m
l
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
o
s
h
a
.
g
o
v
/
d
s
g
/
g
u
i
d
a
n
c
e
/
a
v
i
a
n
-
f
l
u
.
h
t
m
l
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
a
n
i
m
a
l
h
e
a
l
t
h
a
u
s
t
r
a
l
i
a
.
c
o
m
.
a
u
/
s
h
a
d
o
m
x
/
a
p
p
s
/
f
m
s
/
f
m
s
d
o
w
n
l
o
a
d
.
c
f
m
?
f
i
l
e
_
u
u
i
d
=
D
4
5
5
2
2
1
1
-
C
3
6
9
-
9
A
3
1
-
F
5
1
B
-
3
D
B
6
1
D
0
C
C
B
3
9
&
s
i
t
e
N
a
m
e
=
a
a
h
c
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
a
n
i
m
a
l
h
e
a
l
t
h
a
u
s
t
r
a
l
i
a
.
c
o
m
.
a
u
/
a
a
h
c
/
i
n
d
e
x
.
c
f
m
?
E
9
7
1
1
7
6
7
-
B
8
5
D
-
D
3
9
1
-
4
5
F
C
-
C
D
B
C
0
7
B
D
1
C
D
4
#
o
p
s
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
o
i
e
.
i
n
t
/
e
n
g
/
n
o
r
m
e
s
/
m
c
o
d
e
/
e
n
_
c
h
a
p
i
t
r
e
_
3
.
6
.
1
.
h
t
m
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
o
i
e
.
i
n
t
/
e
n
g
/
n
o
r
m
e
s
/
m
c
o
d
e
/
e
n
_
c
h
a
p
i
t
r
e
_
3
.
7
.
6
.
h
t
m
,
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
e
u
r
o
p
a
.
e
u
.
i
n
t
/
c
o
m
m
/
f
o
o
d
/
a
n
i
m
a
l
/
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
s
/
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
/
a
v
i
a
n
/
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
v
e
_
a
v
i
a
n
_
e
n
.
p
d
f
Page  44
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
7
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
i
s
k
o
f
h
e
a
t
s
t
r
e
s
s
a
n
d
f
a
t
i
g
u
e
f
r
o
m
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
i
n
P
P
E
.
D
i
s
t
r
e
s
s
t
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
o
b
s
e
r
v
i
n
g
o
n
-
s
i
t
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
o
f
t
h
e
i
r
b
i
r
d
s
.
R
i
s
k
t
o
c
a
s
u
a
l
o
n
l
o
o
k
e
r
s
e
n
t
e
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
o
r
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
z
o
n
e
.
U
s
e
P
P
E
,
H
a
z
M
a
t
w
o
r
k
z
o
n
e
c
o
n
c
e
p
t
s
,
b
u
d
d
y
s
y
s
t
e
m
,
r
e
s
t
b
r
e
a
k
s
,
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
a
s
i
n
O
S
H
A
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
N
A
B
C
C
a
n
d
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
C
o
d
e
o
f
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
o
n
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
,
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
t
o
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
v
e
c
t
o
r
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
a
n
y
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
r
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
p
r
i
o
r
t
o
f
i
n
a
l
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
.
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
l
l
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
w
i
t
h
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
i
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
e
x
p
l
a
i
n
i
n
g
t
h
e
H
P
A
I
t
h
r
e
a
t
a
n
d
t
h
e
n
e
e
d
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
.
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
c
o
u
n
s
e
l
i
n
g
f
o
r
d
i
s
t
r
e
s
s
e
d
p
e
o
p
l
e
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
c
h
i
l
d
r
e
n
,
o
b
s
e
r
v
i
n
g
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
e
x
p
e
r
i
e
n
c
i
n
g
l
o
s
s
o
f
t
h
e
i
r
h
o
u
s
e
h
o
l
d
p
e
t
s
a
n
d
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
b
i
r
d
s
.
p
l
u
g
s
,
b
o
o
t
s
o
r
s
h
o
e
c
o
v
e
r
s
,
a
n
d
d
u
c
t
t
a
p
e
.
E
n
o
u
g
h
s
e
t
s
f
o
r
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
l
e
a
n
s
u
i
t
i
n
g
f
o
r
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
3
b
r
e
a
k
s
/
d
a
y
.
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
m
a
n
u
a
l
s
a
n
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
.
O
n
-
s
i
t
e
h
e
a
l
t
h
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
l
a
n
.
O
n
-
s
i
t
e
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
.
V
a
c
c
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
.
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
h
e
a
l
t
h
s
t
a
t
u
s
/
r
e
c
o
r
d
o
f
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
E
n
f
o
r
c
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
a
n
e
x
c
l
u
s
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
r
a
n
s
i
t
i
o
n
z
o
n
e
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
n
d
d
e
a
d
b
i
r
d
s
P
o
s
e
r
i
s
k
s
o
f
s
p
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
a
n
d
o
f
e
x
p
o
s
u
r
e
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
t
h
a
t
d
o
n
o
t
l
e
a
k
o
r
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
a
i
r
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
.
O
n
l
y
u
s
e
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
a
n
d
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
h
a
t
h
a
v
e
a
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
a
n
d
u
s
e
t
h
e
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
e
d
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
e
a
r
.
O
n
l
y
u
s
e
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
t
h
a
t
h
a
v
e
b
e
e
n
v
a
c
c
i
n
a
t
e
d
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
a
m
a
n
i
f
e
s
t
s
y
s
t
e
m
t
o
r
e
c
o
r
d
s
o
u
r
c
e
t
o
e
n
d
p
o
i
n
t
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
,
a
s
i
n
H
a
z
M
a
t
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
.
V
e
r
i
f
y
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
a
n
d
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
.
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
h
e
a
l
t
h
s
t
a
t
u
s
/
r
e
c
o
r
d
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
d
i
n
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
Page  45
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
8
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
.
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
c
u
l
l
e
d
B
i
r
d
s
P
o
o
r
c
h
o
i
c
e
o
f
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
p
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
m
a
y
p
o
s
e
r
i
s
k
t
o
s
p
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
,
o
r
c
a
u
s
e
w
a
t
e
r
o
r
a
i
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
t
o
x
i
c
i
t
y
w
h
e
n
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
t
o
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
v
e
c
t
o
r
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
o
r
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
h
e
a
t
s
t
r
e
s
s
a
n
d
f
a
t
i
g
u
e
f
r
o
m
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
i
n
P
P
E
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
(
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
t
h
e
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
,
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
h
e
l
p
o
f
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
,
W
H
O
,
N
A
B
C
C
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
)
.
U
s
e
P
P
E
,
H
a
z
M
a
t
w
o
r
k
z
o
n
e
c
o
n
c
e
p
t
s
,
b
u
d
d
y
s
y
s
t
e
m
,
r
e
s
t
b
r
e
a
k
s
,
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
a
s
i
n
O
S
H
A
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
N
A
B
C
C
a
n
d
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
D
u
r
i
n
g
r
e
g
u
l
a
r
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
,
c
o
n
f
i
r
m
w
h
e
t
h
e
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
m
e
t
;
V
e
r
i
f
y
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
;
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
a
n
d
h
a
z
m
a
t
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
.
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
f
a
r
m
w
a
s
t
e
(
m
a
n
u
r
e
,
e
g
g
s
,
f
e
a
t
h
e
r
s
,
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
,
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
b
l
e
P
P
E
,
e
t
c
.
)
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
v
i
r
u
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
m
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
o
f
m
a
n
u
r
e
,
l
i
t
t
e
r
,
b
e
d
d
i
n
g
,
f
e
a
t
h
e
r
s
,
e
t
c
.
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
i
r
u
s
w
h
e
n
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
e
g
g
s
a
n
d
h
a
t
c
h
e
r
y
w
a
s
t
e
a
n
d
/
o
r
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
,
o
r
r
e
u
s
i
n
g
e
g
g
c
a
r
t
o
n
s
a
n
d
c
a
g
e
s
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
b
i
o
a
e
r
o
s
o
l
s
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
(
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
t
h
e
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
,
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
h
e
l
p
o
f
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
,
W
H
O
,
N
A
B
C
C
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
)
.
U
s
e
P
P
E
,
H
a
z
M
a
t
w
o
r
k
z
o
n
e
c
o
n
c
e
p
t
s
,
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
a
s
i
n
O
S
H
A
,
A
u
s
V
e
t
,
N
A
B
C
C
a
n
d
O
I
E
/
F
A
O
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
D
u
r
i
n
g
r
e
g
u
l
a
r
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
,
c
o
n
f
i
r
m
w
h
e
t
h
e
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
m
e
t
;
V
e
r
i
f
y
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
;
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
P
P
E
a
n
d
h
a
z
m
a
t
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
.
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
D
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
R
i
s
k
o
f
v
i
r
u
s
d
i
s
s
e
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
i
n
t
o
x
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
b
u
r
n
s
w
h
e
n
u
s
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
U
s
e
F
A
O
,
O
I
E
a
n
d
W
H
O
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
e
d
d
e
t
e
r
g
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
f
o
r
H
P
A
I
.
(
S
e
e
f
o
o
t
n
o
t
e
a
b
o
v
e
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
)
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
e
d
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
a
n
d
d
e
t
e
r
g
e
n
t
s
,
w
a
s
h
t
u
b
s
,
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
c
a
t
c
h
m
e
n
t
t
u
b
s
,
p
o
r
t
a
b
l
e
s
h
o
w
e
r
s
,
E
R
T
s
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
A
H
)
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
Page  46
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
9
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
b
u
r
n
s
w
h
e
n
u
s
i
n
g
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
T
h
o
r
o
u
g
h
l
y
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
t
h
a
t
c
a
m
e
i
n
c
o
n
t
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
b
i
r
d
d
r
o
p
p
i
n
g
s
,
b
l
o
o
d
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
.
D
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
,
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
t
h
a
t
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
e
x
c
l
u
s
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
z
o
n
e
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
t
i
r
e
s
a
s
t
h
e
y
l
e
a
v
e
t
h
e
e
r
a
d
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
r
e
a
.
g
r
o
u
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
s
,
l
o
n
g
-
h
a
n
d
l
e
d
b
r
u
s
h
e
s
,
e
t
c
.
V
e
r
i
f
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
m
a
n
u
a
l
s
a
d
d
r
e
s
s
H
P
A
I
-
s
p
e
c
i
f
i
c
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
a
t
i
o
n
s
.
C
l
e
a
n
P
P
E
f
o
r
u
s
e
a
f
t
e
r
e
a
c
h
b
r
e
a
k
w
h
e
r
e
d
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
f
o
l
l
o
w
e
d
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
s
m
o
k
i
n
g
o
r
w
a
t
e
r
b
r
e
a
k
s
.
o
c
c
a
s
i
o
n
a
l
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
H
u
m
a
n
H
e
a
l
t
h
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
s
o
f
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
C
r
o
s
s
-
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
r
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
u
s
e
d
b
y
v
i
r
a
l
a
g
e
n
t
s
.
P
o
o
r
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
l
a
b
w
a
s
t
e
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
B
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
L
e
v
e
l
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
1
1
b
y
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
u
p
g
r
a
d
i
n
g
o
f
l
a
b
s
a
n
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
o
f
s
t
a
f
f
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
l
y
a
c
c
e
p
t
e
d
l
a
b
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
1
2
.
(
T
h
e
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
)
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
e
m
i
s
e
s
,
s
t
a
f
f
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
t
a
l
l
d
i
a
g
n
o
s
t
i
c
l
a
b
s
,
p
r
i
o
r
t
o
i
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
t
s
i
x
m
o
n
t
h
i
n
t
e
r
v
a
l
s
t
h
e
r
e
a
f
t
e
r
.
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
H
H
)
1
1
D
e
t
a
i
l
s
o
n
b
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
m
i
c
r
o
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
n
d
b
i
o
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
i
e
s
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
a
t
t
h
e
C
D
C
w
e
b
s
i
t
e
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
c
d
c
.
g
o
v
/
o
d
/
o
h
s
/
p
d
f
f
i
l
e
s
/
4
t
h
%
2
0
b
m
b
l
.
p
d
f
a
n
d
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
f
o
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
i
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
-
c
a
r
e
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
(
r
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
a
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
C
D
C
a
n
d
t
h
e
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
a
r
e
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
a
d
v
i
s
o
r
y
c
o
m
m
i
t
t
e
e
-
H
I
C
P
A
C
)
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
a
t
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
c
d
c
.
g
o
v
/
m
m
w
r
/
p
r
e
v
i
e
w
/
m
m
w
r
h
t
m
l
/
r
r
5
2
1
0
a
1
.
h
t
m
1
2
F
o
r
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
g
u
i
d
a
n
c
e
o
n
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
w
a
s
t
e
,
r
e
f
e
r
t
o
t
h
e
W
H
O
B
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
G
u
i
d
e
a
t
:
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
w
h
o
.
i
n
t
/
c
s
r
/
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
/
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
/
b
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
/
B
i
o
s
a
f
e
t
y
7
.
p
d
f
Page  47
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
2
0
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
M
a
j
o
r
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
/
i
s
s
u
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
C
r
o
s
s
-
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
r
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
u
s
e
d
b
y
v
i
r
a
l
a
g
e
n
t
s
d
u
e
t
o
p
o
o
r
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
:
i
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
u
s
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
a
r
e
w
a
s
t
e
s
;
a
n
d
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
w
a
s
t
e
s
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
t
h
e
h
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
/
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
l
i
n
i
c
s
p
e
c
i
f
i
c
c
o
m
p
r
e
h
e
n
s
i
v
e
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
a
r
e
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
s
1
3
.
(
T
h
e
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
)
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
e
m
i
s
e
s
,
s
t
a
f
f
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
t
a
l
l
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
e
d
b
y
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
,
p
r
i
o
r
t
o
i
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
t
s
i
x
m
o
n
t
h
i
n
t
e
r
v
a
l
s
t
h
e
r
e
a
f
t
e
r
.
H
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
s
t
a
f
f
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
H
H
)
M
e
d
i
c
a
l
S
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
s
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
t
o
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
e
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
h
e
a
l
t
h
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
f
o
r
t
h
e
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
o
f
c
r
i
t
i
c
a
l
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
)
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
.
A
n
y
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
d
v
e
r
s
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
a
r
i
s
i
n
g
o
u
t
o
f
t
h
e
l
i
m
i
t
e
d
c
i
v
i
l
w
o
r
k
s
(
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
e
r
i
o
d
)
w
i
l
l
b
e
a
d
d
r
e
s
s
e
d
b
y
f
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
g
o
o
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
/
F
I
D
I
C
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
.
1
4
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
s
u
p
e
r
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
w
i
l
l
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
F
I
D
I
C
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
.
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
’
s
s
t
a
f
f
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
;
E
F
P
(
H
H
)
1
3
F
o
r
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
g
u
i
d
a
n
c
e
o
n
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
w
a
s
t
e
,
r
e
f
e
r
t
o
t
h
e
W
H
O
/
W
B
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
“
B
e
t
t
e
r
H
e
a
l
t
h
C
a
r
e
W
a
s
t
e
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
”
a
t
:
h
t
t
p
s
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
w
h
o
.
i
n
t
/
w
a
t
e
r
_
s
a
n
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
_
h
e
a
l
t
h
/
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
w
a
s
t
e
/
b
h
c
w
m
e
n
g
.
p
d
f
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
t
h
e
u
p
d
a
t
e
d
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
f
o
r
t
h
e
M
E
N
A
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
n
d
j
o
i
n
t
l
y
p
u
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
b
y
W
H
O
a
n
d
t
h
e
W
o
r
l
d
B
a
n
k
i
n
2
0
0
5
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
o
n
m
e
d
i
c
a
l
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
.
1
4
F
I
D
I
C
,
t
h
e
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
F
e
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
E
n
g
i
n
e
e
r
s
(
t
h
e
a
c
r
o
n
y
m
s
t
a
n
d
s
f
o
r
t
h
e
F
r
e
n
c
h
v
e
r
s
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
n
a
m
e
)
r
e
p
r
e
s
e
n
t
s
g
l
o
b
a
l
l
y
t
h
e
c
o
n
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
e
n
g
i
n
e
e
r
i
n
g
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
y
a
n
d
p
r
o
m
o
t
e
s
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
l
y
a
c
c
e
p
t
e
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
f
o
r
w
o
r
k
s
–
d
e
t
a
i
l
s
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
a
t
h
t
t
p
:
/
/
w
w
w
.
f
i
d
i
c
.
o
r
g
/
Page  48
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
2
1
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
4
:
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
P
h
y
s
i
c
a
l
B
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
S
o
c
i
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
o
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
 Soil Erosion / Contamination 
Air Quality 
Surface Water Quality 
Groundwater Quality 
 Water Availability and Consumption  
Natural Vegetation 
Wildlife 
Land Acquisition 
Agriculture / Poultry 
Blocked Access 
Noise and Vibration 
Safety Hazard 
 Employment/Earning Opportunities 
Infrastructure 
 Public Health (Health hazard for 
 project staff and communities) 
Aesthetic Value 
 Sites of Archeological, Historical or 
Cultural Significance - 
 Impacts on Indigenous People 
D
i
s
e
a
s
e
S
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
0
0
0
0
N
N
0
N
0
N
N
N
N
N
0
N
N
N
C
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
0
0
0
0
N
N
-
1
N
-
1
N
N
N
+
1
N
-
1
N
N
N
C
a
r
c
a
s
s
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
0
0
0
-
1
N
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
+
1
N
-
1
N
0
N
D
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
0
0
0
0
N
0
0
N
0
N
N
N
N
N
-
1
N
N
N
C
r
o
s
s
-
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
,
S
p
r
e
a
d
o
f
I
n
f
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
W
a
s
t
e
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
f
r
o
m
H
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
s
a
n
d
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
i
e
s
0
0
0
0
N
0
0
0
0
0
N
0
N
N
-
1
N
N
N
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
N
N
0
-
1
-
1
+
1
0
-
1
0
N
N
K
e
y
:
-
2
:
H
i
g
h
n
e
g
a
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
-
1
:
L
o
w
n
e
g
a
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
0
:
i
n
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
/
n
e
g
l
i
g
i
b
l
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
+
1
:
l
o
w
p
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
+
2
:
H
i
g
h
p
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
,
N
:
n
o
i
m
p
a
c
t
.
Page  49
Environmental Management Plan
 
1
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Institutional and Implementation Mechanism 
This section describes the institutional and implementation arrangements devised for the AI 
project.  
Institutional Arrangements 
The ultimate responsibility of the environmental performance of the project rests with the 
implementing ministries (ie, MAIL and MOPH) for their respective components of the AI 
project.  The ministries will fulfill their responsibilities through the project coordinator, who will 
be assisted by the animal health coordinator, human health coordinator, M&E specialist and 
environmental and waste management specialist (EWMS). 
The project staff, contractor and other relevant staff from the project supported facilities will 
be responsible for the implementation of the mitigation measures, as tabulated in 
Attachment 4.3
.
Roles and Responsibilities 
Roles and responsibilities of the key project personnel for the environmental management of 
the project are discussed below and tabulated in 
Attachment 5.1
.
EWMS:
 
The EWMS will operationalize the environmental management plan.  The EWMS 
will also implement the environmental training plan.  S/he will also be responsible for 
developing detailed waste disposal guidelines for carcass disposal and wastes from 
hospitals, clinics and laboratories supported by the project.  The EWMS’s ToR is provided in 
Attachment 5.2
.
The EWMS will be available to the project for a total duration of 6 months.  During the initial 
2-3 months, s/he will carry out the following specific tasks: 
X\03
Operationalize the EMP,  
X\03
fulfill the regulatory requirements, 
X\03
finalize the environmental monitoring framework in close coordination with the M&E 
specialist,  
X\03
design and conduct environmental trainings,   
X\03
develop waste disposal guidelines, 
X\03
ensure that the EMP and waste disposal guidelines are translated in Dari and 
Pashto.   
After the initial inputs stated above, the EWMS will be available to the project during brief 
missions, during which s/he will: 
X\03
review the implementation status of the mitigation measures,  
X\03
study the environmental monitoring reports,  
X\03
evaluate the effectiveness of environmental monitoring,  
Page  50
Environmental Management Plan
 
2
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
X\03
i
dentify/recom
mend ‘course corrections’ if warranted on the basis of the field 
observations, results of the environmental monitoring, and/or inputs from other 
agencies (such as NEPA),  
X\03
conduct additional environmental trainings, if needed.   
F
ield teams:
 
The EMP defines the mitigation measures however, implementation of these 
measures will be the responsibility of the field teams, as given below:   
X\03
ERTs for the mitigation measures associated with culling and carcass disposal,  
X\03
surveillance teams for the control measures during disease surveillance, and  
X\03
hospitals’ and clinics’ waste disposal staff for implementing the waste disposal 
guidelines, 
X\03
construction contractors for mitigation measures associated with the construction 
activities. 
Zonal M&E Coordinators:
 
The zonal M&E coordinators will be responsible for carrying out 
the environmental monitoring in the field.  They will ensure that the field teams (surveillance 
teams, ERTs and others) effectively implement the mitigation measures identified in the 
mitigation plan (
Attachment 4.3
).  They will fill simple checklists and forms (provided to them 
by the M&E specialist/EWMS), and send these to the M&E specialist in Kabul.  The zonal 
coordinators will receive trainings for these aspects.  The EWMS and EFPs (discussed 
below) will provide technical support and backstopping to the zonal M&E coordinators.   
M&E Specialist:
 
The M&E specialist will be responsible to implement the environmental 
monitoring framework designed by the EWMS.  As described above, the environmental 
monitoring in the field will be carried out by the zonal M&E coordinators, who will send the 
monitoring data to the M&E specialist.  Based upon the data received from the regional 
teams, the M&E specialist will produce regular environmental monitoring reports.  The EFPs 
(discussed below) will assist the M&E specialist in preparing and reviewing these reports. 
Environmental Focal Points (EFPs):
 
Both MAIL and MOPH will have their respective 
EFPs, who will assist EWMS in: 
X\03
operationalizing the EMP,  
X\03
conducting stakeholder consultations, and  
X\03
implementing environmental trainings.   
They will also support M&E specialist and zonal M&E coordinators for environmental 
monitoring of the project activities for their respective area of responsibility in the project 
(particularly during the absence of EWMS).  They will also be required to conduct field visits, 
to ensure effective implementation of the mitigation measures and monitoring framework.   
The ToRs for the EFPs are provided in 
Attachments 5.3
 and 
5.4
.
The EWMS will be 
responsible to train the EFPs, in addition to providing technical support and backstopping. 
Page  51
Environmental Management Plan
 
3
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Implementation Arrangements 
The environmental management of the AI project will be carried out with the help of the 
following key activities:  
1. 
Public disclosure and stakeholder consultations 
2. EMP 
operationalization 
3. 
Fulfilling requirements arising from national legislation 
4. 
Development of waste disposal guidelines 
5. Environmental 
trainings 
6. 
Implementation of the mitigation measures 
7. Environmental 
monitoring 
8. 
Documentation and reporting. 
The first four activities of the above list are discussed below, while the remaining are 
discussed in separate chapters later in this document. 
Public Disclosure and Stakeholder Consultations 
Stakeholder consultation will continue throughout the project duration.  It started during the 
project development stage, and continued during the EMP adaptation and development of 
the present document (POM).   
Further consultations will be conducted in order to disseminate salient features of the project 
and EMP, and also for obtaining views, concerns and apprehensions of the stakeholders.  
These consultations will be carried out with NEPA, UNEP, implementing ministries (MAIL 
and MOPH), zonal/regional officials and relevant NGOs.  Consultations will also be carried 
out with selected communities.  Consultation workshops will be held in Kabul and other 
zones (where project’s zonal coordinators are present) for this purpose.   
EWMS will be responsible for this task, with assistance from the EFPs and zonal 
coordinators. 
Subsequent to the above, consultations with the key stakeholders will continue throughout 
the project, primarily during meetings with NEPA, environmental monitoring and visits of 
EWMS and EFPs to the field. 
EMP Operationalization 
A
generic EMP existed as part of the project documents (Technical Annex), which has been 
adapted and expanded making it more specific for the project as well as the local conditions 
in Afghanistan.  During the early stages of the project implementation, the EMP will be 
further elaborated and operationalized.  This will be carried out on the basis of the 
stakeholder consultations discussed above, and the key inputs provided by the M&E 
specialist.  The guidance and advice from NEPA will also be sought for this purpose.   
The key steps in operationalizing the EMP will include: 
Page  52
Environmental Management Plan
 
4
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
X\03
R
eview of the outcome of the stakeholder consultations (discussed in 
Section 5.2.1
 
above), 
X\03
D
iscussions with the M&E specialist, and if needed with the zonal M&E coordinators, 
on the environmental monitoring framework,  
X\03
Finalization of the environmental indicators to be monitored 
X\03
Need identification for the environmental trainings 
X\03
Finalization of environmental training plan 
X
\03
Review of EMPs from other countries, preferably for the AI projects 
X\03
Detailed discussions and consultations with NEPA, in order to obtain their guidance 
and advice.  
The EWMS will be responsible for this activity, with assistance from the EFPs.   
Once operationalized, the EMP will be translated in Dari and Pashto (MAIL to be responsible 
for the translation).  Subsequently it will be made available to the key stakeholders in all 
zones for their review and feedback.   
Fulfilling Requirements Arising from National Legislation 
The Afghanistan’s environmental protection act requires that the project proponents conduct 
environmental assessments and submit its report to NEPA for review and approval.  In line 
with this requirement, the EMP will be submitted to NEPA.   
The EWMS will also review other environmental regulations which are in the process of 
being developed/enforced.  In response to these regulations and in consultation with NEPA 
and UNEP (which provides technical support to NEPA), EWMS will identify any further action 
to be taken by the project.   
Development of Waste Disposal Guidelines 
The EWMS will be responsible to develop the waste disposal guidelines for various project 
activities.  Three distinct sets of waste disposal guidelines are expected to be developed: 
X\03
Waste resulting from birds culling and associated activities, 
X\03
Wastes generated from hospitals, clinics and laboratories (supported by the project),  
X\03
Waste generated during the construction activities. 
The guidelines will provide the procedures for collecting, segregation (where applicable), 
handling and disposal of various types of wastes listed above. 
The steps involved in developing the waste disposal guidelines include the following: 
1. 
Review of the project activities generating waste. 
2. 
Review of the international best practice for the disposal of each kind of waste. 
3. 
Review of the prevailing disposal practices in the developing countries in the region 
(India, Pakistan, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and others). 
4. 
Review of the existing waste handling and disposal practices in the country. 
Page  53
Environmental Management Plan
 
5
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
5. 
Identifying and evaluating various waste disposal options for each type of waste. 
6. 
Discussing the waste disposal options with the project team, the implementing 
ministries, NEPA and UNEP. 
7. 
Selecting the most appropriate disposal options (for each type of waste). 
8
.
Preparing detailed guidelines for the selected options.  As stated above, three set of 
guidelines will be developed for: i) waste generated by culling and associated 
activities; ii) waste generated from hospitals, clinics and laboratories; and 
iii) construction waste. 
9. 
Once finalized, the guidelines will be translated in Dari and Pashto (MAIL and MOPH 
to be responsible for their respective guidelines). 
This task will be completed within first three months of the project initiation.   
Most of these waste disposal guidelines 
–
particularly the ones for hospital/laboratory waste 
and construction waste – will be applicable to other similar facilities/projects.   
Implementation Schedule 
Attachment 5.5
 provides the implementation schedule for the environmental management 
activities. 
Legal and Contractual Arrangements  
The institutional and implementation arrangements discussed in 
Sections 5.1
 and 
5.2
 
above, have been made part of the project’s operational manual, hence making it a binding 
on the project team.  For the construction contractors, appropriate clauses will be included in 
their contracts so as to make complete implementation of the mitigation measures a 
contractual binding. 
Page  54
A
f
g
h
a
n
i
s
t
a
n
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
6
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
1
:
R
o
l
e
s
a
n
d
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
T
a
s
k
s
N
o
t
e
s
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
c
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
s
.
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
F
o
c
a
l
P
o
i
n
t
s
(
E
F
P
s
)
a
n
d
z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
t
o
a
s
s
i
s
t
.
F
i
n
a
l
i
z
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
/
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
s
t
o
m
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
.
M
&
E
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
t
o
a
s
s
i
s
t
.
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
z
e
E
M
P
.
E
F
P
s
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
.
F
u
l
f
i
l
l
a
l
l
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
o
r
y
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
E
F
P
s
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
m
o
d
u
l
e
s
.
D
u
r
i
n
g
i
n
i
t
i
a
l
3
m
o
n
t
h
s
.
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
.
E
F
P
s
t
o
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
d
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
e
i
n
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
.
R
e
v
i
e
w
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
a
n
d
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
n
e
s
s
.
R
e
v
i
e
w
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
.
E
F
P
s
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
.
R
e
v
i
e
w
o
v
e
r
a
l
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
p
e
r
f
o
r
m
a
n
c
e
o
f
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
.
R
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
c
o
u
r
s
e
c
o
r
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
f
n
e
e
d
e
d
.
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
a
d
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
(
i
f
n
e
e
d
e
d
)
.
E
F
P
s
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
.
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
W
a
s
t
e
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
S
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
(
E
W
M
S
)
A
f
t
e
r
3
m
o
n
t
h
s
.
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
b
a
c
k
s
t
o
p
p
i
n
g
t
o
E
F
P
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
n
e
l
.
Page  55
A
f
g
h
a
n
i
s
t
a
n
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
7
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
T
a
s
k
s
N
o
t
e
s
S
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
t
e
a
m
s
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
,
a
s
g
i
v
e
n
i
n
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
p
l
a
n
(
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
4
.
3
)
.
T
h
e
s
u
r
v
e
i
l
l
a
n
c
e
t
e
a
m
s
w
i
l
l
r
e
c
e
i
v
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
t
o
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
E
F
P
s
a
n
d
E
W
M
S
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
a
n
d
b
a
c
k
s
t
o
p
p
i
n
g
.
C
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
t
e
a
m
s
(
E
R
T
s
)
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
,
a
s
g
i
v
e
n
i
n
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
p
l
a
n
(
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
4
.
3
)
.
T
h
e
E
R
T
s
w
i
l
l
r
e
c
e
i
v
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
t
o
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
E
F
P
s
a
n
d
E
W
M
S
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
a
n
d
b
a
c
k
s
t
o
p
p
i
n
g
.
H
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
s
.
C
l
i
n
i
c
s
a
n
d
L
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
y
s
t
a
f
f
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
i
o
-
s
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
T
h
e
s
t
a
f
f
w
i
l
l
b
e
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
n
t
h
e
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
n
d
b
i
o
-
s
a
f
e
t
y
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
D
u
r
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
,
a
s
g
i
v
e
n
i
n
t
h
e
E
M
P
.
T
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
’
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
s
t
a
f
f
w
i
l
l
b
e
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
n
t
h
e
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
a
n
d
b
i
o
-
s
a
f
e
t
y
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
Z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
a
s
g
i
v
e
n
i
n
E
M
P
.
T
o
r
e
g
u
l
a
r
l
y
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
d
a
t
a
(
u
s
i
n
g
t
h
e
d
a
t
a
f
o
r
m
a
t
/
c
h
e
c
k
l
i
s
t
s
/
f
o
r
m
s
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
b
y
M
&
E
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
a
n
d
E
W
M
S
)
t
o
M
&
E
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
.
T
h
e
z
o
n
a
l
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
w
i
l
l
r
e
c
e
i
v
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
n
t
h
e
s
e
a
s
p
e
c
t
s
.
E
W
M
S
a
n
d
E
F
P
s
w
i
l
l
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
a
n
d
b
a
c
k
s
t
o
p
p
i
n
g
.
F
i
r
s
t
3
m
o
n
t
h
s
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
t
o
E
W
M
S
f
o
r
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
.
M
&
E
S
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
d
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
.
P
r
e
p
a
r
e
p
e
r
i
o
d
i
c
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
o
n
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
s
o
f
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
d
a
t
a
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
b
y
z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
.
.
E
W
M
S
a
n
d
E
F
P
s
t
o
a
s
s
i
s
t
M
&
E
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
i
n
p
r
e
p
a
r
i
n
g
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
.
Page  56
A
f
g
h
a
n
i
s
t
a
n
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
8
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
T
a
s
k
s
N
o
t
e
s
F
i
r
s
t
3
m
o
n
t
h
s
A
s
s
i
s
t
E
W
M
S
i
n
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
i
n
g
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
s
.
A
s
s
i
s
t
E
W
M
S
i
n
f
i
n
a
l
i
z
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
.
A
s
s
i
s
t
E
W
M
S
i
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
z
i
n
g
E
M
P
.
A
s
s
i
s
t
E
W
M
S
i
n
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
A
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
d
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
e
i
n
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
.
E
F
P
s
w
i
l
l
r
e
c
e
i
v
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
n
t
h
e
s
e
a
s
p
e
c
t
s
.
E
F
P
s
A
f
t
e
r
f
i
r
s
t
3
m
o
n
t
h
s
A
s
s
i
s
t
M
&
E
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
a
n
d
z
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
i
n
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
.
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
f
i
e
l
d
v
i
s
i
t
s
t
o
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
,
a
n
d
l
a
b
o
r
a
t
o
r
i
e
s
(
E
F
P
-
A
H
)
,
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
v
i
s
i
t
s
t
o
h
o
s
p
i
t
a
l
s
a
n
d
c
l
i
n
i
c
s
(
E
F
P
-
H
H
)
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
.
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
f
o
l
l
o
w
-
u
p
/
r
e
f
r
e
s
h
e
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
,
i
f
n
e
e
d
e
d
.
A
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
d
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
t
a
f
f
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
t
t
e
r
s
r
e
g
a
r
d
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
.
E
W
M
S
w
i
l
l
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
t
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
a
n
d
b
a
c
k
s
t
o
p
p
i
n
g
.
Page  57
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
9
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
A
ttachment 0.2:  ToR for International Environmental and Waste Management 
Consultant 
The International Consultant in close collaboration with the national focal points in MAIL and 
MOPH shall: 
·
Based on the Results Framework and Monitoring and the Environmental 
management Plan (EMP)
–
prepare a detailed M&E system, including data collection, 
tabulation, frequency of data collection, data analysis and evaluation, as well as 
reporting – to ensure that all minimum targets and objectives as well as the reporting 
objectives are fully achieved. 
·
Develop a detailed list of indicators with specifications of method of data collection, 
frequency and tabulation in a pre-designed database system. 
·
The system should be developed in close collaboration with the M&E Specialist.    
·
Provide specific reports to the WB as specified in the Results Framework and 
Monitoring as well as to NEPA and the project team. 
·
Assist the M&E Specialist in drafting the various reports, at least during the first year 
of the project implementation. 
·
Participating in focused group meetings and organized stakeholder workshops to 
understand the key areas of concern of different stakeholders, particularly vulnerable 
communities, private sector firms regarding the environmental and social impacts of 
the AI project activities; 
·
Assess through fieldwork the current status of applied personal safety, and waste and 
hazard materials management and disposal measures, with special emphasis on 
HPAI containment and control. 
·
Assessment of environmental training and capacity building needs in the relevant 
ministries; 
·
Plan, implement and monitor the environmental training of staff at various levels in 
the client ministries; 
·
Develop manuals and guidelines, applicable within the Afghan socio-economic 
context, on personal safety, and waste and hazard materials management and 
environmentally friendly disposal. Make sure that these materials are translated in the 
local languages and are available to relevant staff working on the project; 
·
Train trainers in the environmental aspects of culling operations, and laboratory 
personnel in personal safety measures and environmentally safe disposal of waste 
and hazard materials. Women trainers would be very needed to reach the women 
who raise backyard chickens to understand the bio-safety and issues and be able to 
benefit from the compensation when there is an outbreak and culling has to be 
undertaken. 
·
Identifying methodologies to establish and institutionalize the general waste 
management and hygienic practice in the relevant departments of the client 
ministries; 
Page  58
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
10 
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
·
Sharing international best practices and recommending actions for a more effective 
public awareness and public participation programs to prevent adverse environmental 
and social impacts of the program;  
·
Help mainstream environmental concerns into the policy formulation, program 
development and planning process. 
 
Page  59
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
11 
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Attachment 0.3:  ToR for Environmental Focal Point (Animal Health) 
Under the direct supervision of the environmental and waste management specialist (EWMS) 
and in coordination with the project implementation team at the Ministry of Agriculture, 
I
rrigation and Livestock (MAIL), the Environmental Focal Point (EFP) will perform the 
following functions: 
·
Maintain close liaison and coordination with the project implementation team in MAIL 
(particularly with the project coordinator, animal health coordinator and monitoring 
and evaluation coordinator). 
·
Participate and assist EWMS in focused group meetings and stakeholder workshops 
on the environmental and social impacts of the AI project activities. 
·
Assist EWMS in the management of environmental trainings of staff at various levels 
in the client ministry (MAIL), as well as participate in these trainings. 
·
Ensure effective environmental monitoring and data collection/reporting on 
environmental indicators (animal health component) by the field teams and regional 
monitoring and evaluation coordinators.  The environmental monitoring framework 
and data collection requirements will be provided in the environmental management 
plan (EMP) which will be prepared by the EWMS.   
·
Conduct occasional environmental monitoring visits to culling and burial sites in 
coordination with the emergency response teams responsible for these activities 
(culling and burial of carcasses).  
·
Review environmental monitoring reports (for animal health component) prepared by 
the regional monitoring and evaluation coordinators. 
·
Advise and assist project staff on all matters relating to environment and 
Environmental Management Plan implementation (animal health component), in 
consultation with/under the supervision of EWMS. 
The EFP will be provided training(s) on the responsibilities listed above, and the 
Environmental Management Plan being developed for the project.  
It is expected that the EFP will be available to the project on part time basis.  However the 
involvement and time requirement is likely to vary depending upon the project activities.     
 
Page  60
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
12 
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Attachment 0.4:  ToR for Environmental Focal Point (Human Health) 
Under the direct supervision of the environmental and waste management specialist (EWMS) 
and in coordination with the Human Health Coordinator, the Environmental Focal Point (EFP) 
w
ill perform the following functions: 
·
Maintain close liaison and coordination with the project implementation team in MAIL 
and MOPH (particularly with the project coordinator, human health coordinator and 
monitoring and evaluation coordinator). 
·
Participate and assist EWMS in focused group meetings and stakeholder workshops 
on the environmental and social impacts of the AI project activities. 
·
Assist EWMS in the management of environmental trainings of staff at various levels 
in the client ministry (MOPH), as well as participate in these trainings. 
·
Ensure effective environmental monitoring and data collection/reporting on 
environmental indicators (human health component) by the field teams and regional 
monitoring and evaluation coordinators.  The environmental monitoring framework 
and data collection requirements will be provided in the environmental management 
plan (EMP) which will be prepared by the EWMS.   
·
Ensure effective implementation and environmental monitoring of the hospital waste 
management system in the hospitals supported by the project.  The waste 
management system will be developed by the EWMS.  
·
Review environmental monitoring reports (human health components) prepared by 
the regional monitoring and evaluation coordinators. 
·
Advise and assist project staff on all matters relating to environment, waste 
management system and Environmental Management Plan implementation (human 
health components), in consultation with/under the supervision of EWMS. 
The EFP will be provided training(s) on the responsibilities listed above, and the 
Environmental Management Plan being developed for the project.  
It is expected that the EFP will be available to the project on part time basis.  However the 
involvement and time requirement is likely to vary depending upon the project activities.     
 
Page  61
A
f
g
h
a
n
i
s
t
a
n
A
v
i
a
n
I
n
f
l
u
e
n
z
a
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
1
3
E
1
4
5
7
0
v
2
0
S
A
R
1
E
A
1
p
1
0
0
9
3
5
.
d
o
c
:
A
u
g
u
s
t
2
0
0
7
A
t
t
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
0
.
5
:
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
Y
e
a
r
1
Y
e
a
r
2
Y
e
a
r
3
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
Q
1
Q
2
Q
3
Q
4
Q
1
Q
2
Q
3
Q
4
Q
1
Q
2
Q
3
Q
4
N
o
t
e
s
S
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
c
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
t
i
o
n
s
E
M
P
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
F
u
l
f
i
l
l
i
n
g
N
E
P
A
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
m
o
d
u
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
i
t
i
a
l
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
(
T
o
T
)
F
o
l
l
o
w
-
u
p
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
N
e
e
d
b
a
s
e
d
.
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
D
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
r
e
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
.
A
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
(
e
g
,
c
u
l
l
i
n
g
,
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
,
e
t
c
.
)
Page  62
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
1
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Environmental Monitoring 
This section discusses the environmental monitoring that will be carried out during the AI 
project.  
Objective 
The ultimate aim of the environmental monitoring is effective implementation of the EMP, 
and enhanced environmental performance of the project activities.  The objectives of 
environmental monitoring during the AI project are as follows: 
„\03
Ensuring that the mitigation measures discussed in 
Section 4.3
 are being implemented 
completely. 
„\03
Ensuring the effectiveness of the mitig
ation measures in minimizing the project’s impacts 
on the environmental resources.  
These objectives will be met through the implementation of the environmental monitoring 
framework discussed below. 
Environmental Monitoring Framework  
The environmental monitoring framework consists of the following key elements:   
X\03
Environmental monitoring parameters  
X\03
Monitoring methodology  
X\03
Monitoring forms and checklists  
X\03
Monitoring tiers, roles and responsibilities 
X\03
Environmental monitoring reports. 
These elements are discussed below. 
Monitoring Parameters:
 
The environmental monitoring parameters are tabulated in 
Attachment 4.3
,
against each project activities.   
Methodology:
 
Mostly, the monitoring will be carried out through observation in the field.  A 
set of simple checklists will be developed on the basis of the monitoring plan 
(
Attachment 4.3
)
during the initial phase of the project, which will be filled during the various 
field activities, such as surveillance, culling and carcass disposal.  The checklists will 
essentially record the field observations, including any non-compliances, during the 
environmental monitoring.  Through filling of these checklists, implementation of the 
mitigation measures will be ensured.  These checklists will be reinforced by photographs of 
the key activities/sites, such as culling and waste disposal. 
Roles and Responsibilities, and Monitoring Tiers:
 
The overall responsibility of 
implementing the environmental management framework will rest with the M&E specialist.  
The environmental monitoring will be carried out at three tiers, described below.   
At the field level, the environmental monitoring will be carried out by the zonal M&E 
coordinators, who will fill the above-mentioned checklists during the field activities.  These 
Page  63
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
2
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
f
illed checklists will be sent to the M&E specialist, who will maintain record of these 
checklists.   
At the second level, the EWMS (when available to the project
15
), EFPs and M&E specialist 
will conduct environmental monitoring during occasional field visits.  During these visits, they 
will observe the field activities and environmental monitoring conducted by the zonal M&E 
coordinators.  In addition, they will also look for any residual environmental impacts or 
unforeseen environmental aspect of the project activities.  This will ensure the effectiveness 
of the mitigation measures implemented during the field activities.   
At the topmost tier, the periodic project supervisory missions from WB will monitor the field 
activities on a selective basis.   
In addition to the above, monitoring teams from NEPA may also visit the project site in order 
to assess the environmental performance of the project.  
Monitoring Reports:
 
The M&E specialist will prepare periodic environmental reports on the 
basis of the filled checklists received from the zonal M&E coordinators.  The EWMS and 
EFPs will provide assistance to him for this purpose.  These reports will provide information 
on the implementation of the mitigation measures, any non-compliances observed, and 
corrective actions recommended.  
In addition to the above, a separate monitoring report will be prepared for each monitoring 
visit conducted by the EWMS, EFPs and/or M&E specialist.  These reports will document the 
field observations, implementation of the mitigation measures and monitoring requirements, 
any non-compliances observed or reported, any residual impacts observed, recommended 
corrective measures and any other relevant information. 
Monitoring Framework Finalization:
 
The EWMS will finalize the environmental monitoring 
framework during the early phase of the project, with assistance from the M&E specialist.  
During this phase, the monitoring checklists will be developed, environmental indicator 
(discussed below) finalized, formats of the monitoring reports prepared, and monitoring 
schedule framed. 
Monitoring Indicators 
The environmental indicators help in effective environmental monitoring, evaluation and 
quantitative analysis of the environmental performance of the project.  An indicative list of the 
environmental indicators is provided below.  
X\03
Number of non-compliances during each field operation (eg, culling of infected birds) 
X\03
Number of environmental trainings conducted. 
X\03
Number of project staff who received environmental trainings. 
X\03
Number of monitoring visits conducted by EWMS, EFPs and M&E specialist.  
X\03
Number of grievances received (eg, regarding compensation payment). 
15
 
The EWMS will be available to the project on an intermittent basis: for total six months during the entire 
project duration of three years. 
Page  64
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
3
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
X\03
N
umber of grievances addressed satisfactorily. 
X\03
Distance of the carcass disposal site from any existing ground water well. 
X
\03
Distance of the carcass disposal site from village/settlement. 
X\03
Distance of the carcass disposal site from water course, water channel. 
X\03
Distance of the carcass disposal site from any wetland. 
X\03
Water table depth at/near the carcass disposal site. 
X\03
Number of trees cut for the carcass disposal pit. 
These indicators will be finalized by the EWMS in coordination with M&E specialist, during 
the early phase of the project.   
 
Page  65
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
1
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Environmental Trainings and Awareness Raising 
This section provides the environmental training plan for the AI project.  Also discussed in 
the section is the planned process for environmental awareness raising. 
Objectives 
The ultimate aim of the environmental trainings is effective implementation of the EMP, and 
enhanced environmental performance of the project activities.  The specific objectives of 
environmental trainings are as follows: 
X\03
To enhance the environmental awareness among the project staff and other relevant 
personnel from the implementing ministries. 
X\03
To build capacity of field teams, EFPs, zonal M&E coordinators and other project 
staff for their respective roles in environmental management. 
Type of Environmental Trainings 
The objectives outlined above, the following types of environmental trainings will be 
conducted during the AI project.  
1. 
Environmental awareness for the project personnel (and other relevant staff of the 
implementing ministries). 
2. 
Environmental training for the EFPs on EMP implementation. 
3. 
Environmental trainings on monitoring for zonal M&E coordinators and other 
monitoring staff 
4. 
Environmental awareness and waste disposal trainings for the field teams (ERTs) 
involved in culling and carcass disposal  
5. 
Hospitals/laboratory waste disposal training for the relevant project and MOPH 
personnel.   
6. 
Environmental trainings for the construction staff on waste disposal and other 
construction related environmental aspects.  
Although the above trainings are primarily meant for the project staff, other stakeholders 
such as the NEPA staff, can also participate in these trainings.  
Training Need Identification and Module Development  
The first step in developing the training modules would be to identify the training needs of 
various personnel.  This process started with the development of present EMP (see 
Section 1.3
), and will continue during the initial phase of the EMP finalization, with the help 
of additional stakeholder consultations and discussions with the project personnel. 
Subsequent to the above step, the training modules will be developed for each type of the 
trainings listed in 
Section 7.2
 above.  The modules will include the PowerPoint 
presentations, training handouts, training evaluation forms and trainees evaluation forms.   
Page  66
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
2
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
T
he training modules for the first five trainings of the above list will be developed by the 
EWMS, while the one for construction activities will be the responsibility of the construction 
contractor.  
Initial Trainings 
The first three trainings of the list given in 
Section 7.2
 will be conducted by the EWMS, and 
will essentially be the training of trainers (ToT).  These trainings are expected to be 
conducted within first three months of the project initiation.  After each training session, a 
brief report will be developed, which will include the training module, names of the trainees, 
filled training evaluation and trainees evaluation forms.  These trainings will be repeated as 
and when needed.  
Conducting the environmental trainings for the construction staff will be the responsibility of 
the respective construction contractor.   
Subsequent Trainings 
After the initial trainings (ToT) discussed above, the trained project staff will conduct 
environmental trainings (4
th
 and 5
th
 trainings in the list given in 
Section 7.2
)
for the other staff 
and relevant personnel from the implementing ministries.  These trainings will be conducted 
by the EFPs, M&E specialist and zonal M&E coordinators.  These trainings will be repeated 
on a regular basis; the training schedule will be developed during the EMP finalization stage.  
The EWMS when available after the initial 3-month period, will conduct refresher ToTs if a 
need is felt.  
Environmental Awareness Raising 
An important aspect of the avian influenza control strategy is the awareness raising among 
the stakeholders, particularly the communities keeping domestic poultry.  The project 
includes development and implementation of a comprehensive communication strategy 
(
Section 3.2.3
).  The environmental aspects will be an important element of this strategy.  In 
this regard, the EWMS will assist the communication specialist in conceiving and designing 
the environmental component of the strategy.   
 
Page  67
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
1
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Communication and Documentation 
This section defines the communication and documentation mechanism for the 
environmental management of the AI project.  
Objectives 
The objectives of the communication and documentation system as part of the present EMP 
are to systematically document the environmental data and information, communicate it to all 
concerned, and archive it for future use.   
Communication 
Meetings 
The following environmental meetings will take place during the project: 
X\03
Project initiation meeting(s). 
X\03
Fortnightly meetings.
16
 
The purpose of the project initiation meetings will be to discuss the EMP, and ensure full 
understanding and commitment from concerned personnel for its implementation.  Separate 
meetings may be held with construction contractors.  
Periodic meetings will be held at site during the entire duration of the project.  The frequency 
of the meetings will be once in a fortnight, though it can be changed according to the 
situation.  The meetings will be attended by the project coordinator (optional), M&E 
specialist, EFPs, EWMS (when available) and any other project personnel if needed.  The 
purpose of the meetings will be to discuss the EMP implementation, environmental 
monitoring results, non-compliances noted by the monitoring staff, and any environmental / 
social issues identified in the field.  The remedial measures will also be discussed and 
agreed during these meetings.  The meeting will be recorded in the form of an environmental 
report prepared by the M&E specialist with assistance from EFPs. 
Data Recording and Maintenance 
The forms/checklists to be used for recording information during the environmental 
monitoring will be developed by the EWMS, in consultation with the M&E specialist.  These 
forms will follow a standard format.  Check boxes will be used as much as possible for ease 
in filling out the forms and to facilitate data entry. 
The filled checklists will be sent to the M&E specialist for further process. 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
During a disease outbreak and associated culling of birds, the compensation payment may 
generate community grievances which must be adequately and appropriately addressed for 
the success of the project.  Towards this end, the compensation procedures (included in the 
POM) include a grievance redressal mechanism.  Through this mechanism, the community 
16  
Frequency of meetings may be adjusted per the situation.
 
Page  68
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
2
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
g
rievances will be recorded, remedial actions, if any, will be determined, responsibility 
assigned, action take, and the concerned community informed, about the action take.  
Complete record will be maintained for all of these steps.   
Documentation 
The following environmental reports will be prepared during the project implementation: 
X\03
Project initiation meeting(s), 
 
X\03
Fortnightly meetings, 
 
X\03
Environment monitoring.
 
In addition, the following reports will also be developed during the project implementation: 
X\03
Complete record of the stakeholder consultations to be carried out during the initial 
phase of the project (see 
Section 5.2.2
). 
X\03
Report of each type of trainings conducted by EWMS/EFPs/M&E coordinators.  
These reports will include the training modules, names of the trainers and trainees, 
filled training evaluation forms (to be filled by the trainees), and filled trainees’ 
evaluation forms (to be filled by the trainers). 
These reports will be shared with all the relevant project personnel, and will be available for 
review by monitoring teams from WB, NEPA or any other stakeholder.   
End-of-Project Report:
 
At the end of the project, an end-of-project report will also be 
prepared.  It will include summary of the environmental monitoring reports prepared during 
the project, summary of the environmental trainings, major non-compliances recorded, other 
key environmental information regarding the project, and recommendations for similar 
projects in the future.  
Page  69
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
1
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Environmental Management Cost 
The key elements of the environmental management cost of any project usually include the 
following: 
X\03
Cost of environmental personnel 
X\03
Cost of environmental mitigation measures 
X\03
Cost of environmental monitoring 
X\03
Cost of environmental trainings. 
These costs for the AI project are discussed below and tabulated in 
Attachment 9.1
.
Environmental Personnel:
 
The cost of EWMS is included in the overall project cost.  The 
EFPs will not be available to the project on full time basis, and the existing staff from MOPH 
and MAIL will be assigned additional responsibilities to perform their responsibilities during 
the AI project.  Hence their costs are not included in the project cost. 
Mitigation Measures:
 
The environmental mitigation measures will be the integral part of the 
project implementation, hence these will not incur any additional cost.   
Environmental Monitoring:
 
The environmental monitoring will be implemented through the 
EFPs, M&E specialist and zonal M&E coordinators.  The cost associated with these 
personnel is already included in the project cost.   
Environmental Trainings:
 
The environmental trainings will also be developed and 
conducted by the project staff, as described in 
Section 7
.
These trainings will be conducted 
in the relevant ministries’ premises, thus incurring no additional cost.   
Page  70
Afghanistan Avian Influenza Control Project 
Environmental Management Plan
 
2
E14570v20SAR1EA1p100935.doc
:
August 2007
 
Attachment 9.1:  Environmental Management Cost 
17
 
Description 
Cost (US $) 
Notes 
E
nvironmental Personnel 
72,000 
The indicated cost is for the 
EWMS.  The EFPs’ cost has 
not been included in the 
project cost, since they will 
be the existing employees of 
the implementing ministries 
(MAIL and MOPH) and will 
be available to the project on 
part time basis. 
Environmental Mitigation 
Measures  
-
Completely integrated with 
the overall project cost. 
Environmental Monitoring  
- 
Same as above 
Environmental Trainings 
56,060 
20% of the total cost for the 
trainings which will include 
environmental aspects also 
(total cost of these trainings 
included in the project cost: 
US$ 280,300).   
Total 128,060 
 
17  
All of the costs in this table are already included in the total project cost (
Chapter IV
 of Project Operations Manual).
 
