Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/04/2006 
Report No.:  AC2507
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P100935 
Project Name:  Avian Influenza Control Project 
Task Team Leader:  Norman Bentley Piccioni 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 12, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: December 7, 2006 
Managing Unit:  SASAR 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Animal production (40%);Health (40%);General information and 
communications sector (20%) 
Theme:  Other communicable diseases (P);Natural disaster management (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
8.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
4.75
4.75 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective is to minimize the threat posed by HPAI to the poultry sector 
and prepare for possible spread of the AI to humans, through necessary short-and 
medium-term measures to identify, control and mitigate the effects of the panzootic. To 
achieve this, three areas will be considered for support: (i) prevention, (ii) preparedness 
and planning and (iii) response and containment.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will finance activities under three components: (i) animal health, (ii) human 
health, and  (iii) Coordination, communications and public awareness. 
 
Animal Health Component (US$5.2 million) 
 
Under the responsibility of the Animal Health Department of the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Irrigation, this component will support a national program to develop and 
implement HPAI prevention, containment, control, and eradication activities in the 
livestock sector, specific to the needs of Afghanistan in the short and medium term.  
 
1)
Strengthening of HPAI Control and Outbreak Containment Capacity 
Page  2
?
Virus Eradication at the Source.  Support for: (i) culling of infected and at-risk 
poultry (stamping out), (ii) compensation to farmers  and commercial poultry producers, 
(iii) disposal of carcasses and potentially infective materials in a bio-secure and 
environmentally acceptable manner, (iv) enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and 
associated premises through bio-containment and bio-exclusion; (v) control of movement 
of birds and products that may be infected, including controls at the interface of 
infected/non-infected areas and border controls, and (vi) poultry vaccination.  
 
?
Human Safety.  Training in preventing the spread of virus to staff directly 
involved in the HPAI control and containment for veterinary and extension field staff 
involved in the identification of the disease, farm workers involved in culling and in 
disposing of manure, and laboratory workers involved in virus isolation and diagnosis.  
 
?
Strengthening the National Policy and Regulatory Environment.  Activities aimed 
at improving the policy, legal and regulatory framework as well as inter-ministerial 
coordination and cooperation. The regulatory environment would be enhanced through 
the development of a HPAI Contingency Plan, which will include the identification, early 
warning, rapid reaction and response to HPAI. The Contingency Plan will contribute to 
further development and streamlining the draft National Action Plan . Support for 
Regulation of the Poultry Sector through a comprehensive assessment of present policies 
regulating the Afghan poultry sector and provision of appropriate recommendations if 
necessary to enhance bio-security measures. 
 
2)
Strengthening HPAI clinical and laboratory diagnosis and surveillance for rapid and 
effective outbreak detection and containment capacity 
 
?
Strengthening Disease Surveillance. This will be achieved through support for (i) 
development of effective operating procedures at all levels based on FAO guidelines; (ii) 
staff training in epidemiological surveillance techniques; (iii) implementation of regular 
passive and active epidemiological studies and surveillance programs in commercial and 
smallholder poultry; (iv) implementation of an active surveillance program around 
identified ?hot spots (wetlands)? for migratory birds, to assess risks of contact between 
migratory fowl, domestic poultry and humans and (v) sero-surveillance in vaccinated 
poultry. 
 
?
Strengthening Diagnostic Capacity. Strengthening the capacity of the Central 
Veterinary Laboratory and public and private field staff, in detection, reporting, sample 
collection and submission, and follow-up of reported AI cases.   
 
3)
Improving the capacity of poultry stakeholders to adopt appropriate measures to 
counter HPAI presence in Afghanistan 
 
?
Community-Based Animal Disease Surveillance and Early Warning.  The project 
will finance training courses in, and implementation of participatory disease survey 
techniques for female animal health workers/women poultry trainers, in handling of 
infected animals, reporting procedures and immediate local response measures. 
 
Page  3
?
Improving Bio-Security in Poultry Production.  Develop guidelines and provide 
training to commercial and backyard poultry owners in bio-security measures, early 
identification of poultry diseases, reporting, and early measures to control and contain the 
disease. Improvement of Bio-Security through Enhanced Local Production of Day-old 
Chicks and Restocking is included in the WB-funded Emergency Horticulture and 
Livestock Project (EHLP) and not considered under the proposed AHIP.  
 
4)
Waste Management and Sanitation 
 
This sub-component envisages the preparation of a national plan, standard guidelines 
and an Operational Manual in HPAI-related waste management as well as equipment and 
supplies to support healthy and environmentally friendly disposal of culled animals, 
laboratory waste disposal and decontamination. Detailed TORs for an international 
consultant to prepare guidelines and Operational Manuals are available in the project 
Operational Manual. 
 
Human Health Component (US$ 4.3 Million) 
 
1) Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and Coordination 
 
?
Support for an avian influenza coordinator within the Ministry of Public Health. 
At present, there is no individual in the Ministry of Public Health who is responsible for 
coordination of activities related to avian influenza and human health.  Such an individual 
is necessary because the required elements of human avian influenza surveillance, 
response, and case management, including those activities that are part of this proposal, 
fall within different parts of the MOPH.The avian influenza human health coordinator 
will be responsible for assuring that activities are implemented in a timely fashion.   
 
?
Development of command and control structures within the Ministry of Public 
Health.  The current ability of the MOPH to manage complex emergencies, such as 
disease outbreaks, is both limited and fragmented. Controlling avian influenza will 
require a structure that can integrate surveillance information, communications, 
deployment of response teams, pharmaceuticals management, specimen and test result 
tracking, and can undertake liaison with international, provincial, and local health 
authorities and with other parts of government. The project will support activities to 
assess the current institutional arrangements within the MOPH for both command and 
control, make recommendations for developing a unified structure, including staffing and 
equipment, and support the formation of the command and control unit. The project will 
also provide funding for the director of the command and control unit.    
 
?
Development of protocols and guidelines for disease surveillance, response, and 
case management.  The MOPH has developed limited guidelines regarding disease 
surveillance, including dissemination of a case definition.  Guidelines and protocols are 
available from many international organizations (WHO, CDC, the European CDC, other 
countries that have experienced human illness from avian influenza), however, these 
guidelines must be adapted for Afghanistan-specific circumstances. Uniform standards 
for disease surveillance, reporting, investigation, and case management, are critically 
needed because training activities cannot commence until such materials are in place.  
Page  4
WHO will take the lead in developing the guidelines but the project will support the rapid 
development, production, and dissemination of such protocols and guidelines. The 
project will also support periodic (at least annual) review and modification of existing 
protocols and guidelines as the human dimensions and state of knowledge of avian 
influenza evolve. 
 
?
Training. The project will support a performance-based contract with IbnSina 
Training Institute to train health workers on surveillance, diagnosis, and management. 
The performance of IbnSina will be assessed by MOPH and Johns Hopkins University as 
part of an existing system of health facility surveys (the ?balanced scorecard?). The 
contract will cover material preparation and printing, travel and per diem for this training 
when necessary. The project will provide resources for periodic refresher courses, 
especially as the national situation, and the state of knowledge of avian influenza, 
evolves.  
 
?
Conduct of tabletop and field simulations. Once protocols and guidelines are in 
place, it is important to conduct exercises to assure that policy-makers and health care 
managers understand how to respond to avian influenza and can identify and correct any 
gaps or deficiencies in the system. The United States Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) and WHO will design these exercises based on experience in other 
countries. The project will support the design and implementation of two tabletop 
exercises and two field exercises. One of the tabletop and one of the field exercises 
should take place during the first year of the project, while the remaining exercises 
should take place in the second year to assess progress. 
 
2)  Strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance System 
 
?
Support to the acute flaccid paralysis (AFP)/poliomyelitis surveillance system to 
add avian influenza monitoring.  The AFP/polio surveillance network is currently the 
most comprehensive surveillance system in Afghanistan and is ideal for avian influenza 
surveillance during the pre-pandemic phase when it will be critical to identify single 
cases or small numbers of persons with this disease.  As it currently operates, the AFP 
system will be used over the first half of the project period for this purpose unless and 
until alternative surveillance systems are developed by the MOPH.  In addition to 
existing mechanisms for pediatric disease (up to age 15 for AFP), the AFP system will 
need to expand its monitoring to include potential adult cases.  Support to use the AFP 
system for avian influenza surveillance will be provided by WHO. 
 
?
Develop institutional capacity for avian influenza surveillance including data 
collection, analysis, and dissemination in the MOPH. The project will support the 
institutionalization of a network for the avian influenza component, including collection 
of data on viral pneumonia and influenza-like illness (ILI), from the local to the 
provincial to the national level. The project will support purchases of equipment 
(primarily computers), training, transportation, information dissemination through 
monthly bulletins, and a surveillance unit director and data manager.  
 
Page  5
?
Support to rapid response teams. Each province in Afghanistan has rapid response 
teams (also known as emergency response teams) that have been developed to conduct 
investigations and institute control measures in emergency or outbreak situations. There 
are also national level teams which provide back-up support to the provincial teams.  The 
technical skill of these response teams is inconsistent, as is their training.  The project 
will offer support to these teams, including training (included above), communications, 
transportation, and personal protective equipment.  
 
?
Building diagnostic capacity in the central diagnostic laboratory in the Ministry of 
Public Health.  The MOPH, with assistance from other donors will establish a central 
laboratory to conduct RT-PCR testing and virus isolation. The project will thus, supply 
reagents for RT-PCR, finance the shipment of supplies from the provinces to Kabul, from 
Kabul to international reference centers, and viral transport media.  
 
3)  Strengthening the Health Care System Response Capacity 
 
?
Upgrading of referral institutions for persons with suspected or confirmed avian 
influenza.  During the pre-pandemic and pandemic phases of avian influenza there will 
need to be specialized isolation wards in referral facilities to isolate and care for persons 
with suspected or confirmed disease. The project will finance a contract with a 
competitively selected NGO or other organization to establish isolation wards in at least 
two hospitals in Kabul. The contractor will be responsible for minor renovations, 
purchase of equipment and supplies, transport of a stipulated number of patients, and 
operation of the wards in compliance with guidelines and protocols that are developed.  
 
?
Personal protective equipment (PPE).  Health care workers who will be caring for 
persons with suspected or confirmed avian influenza should utilize protective equipment 
to reduce their risk of exposure and infection.  Standards for PPE have been established 
by WHO. The project will obtain 200 sets of PPE per referral hospital, 50 sets per 
provincial hospital, 25 sets per district hospital, and five sets per basic and 
comprehensive health center.  The project will also budget for a 25% replacement rate 
per year.  The project will also fund shipping and distribution costs and it is expected that 
the procurement will be handled by UNICEF.   
 
?
Antiviral medications.  As currently circulating avian influenza (H5N1) viruses 
are resistant to M2 inhibitors (amantadine and rimantidine), the only currently feasible 
antiviral option is the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir (for both prophylaxis and 
treatment). The project will support prophylactic use of oseltamivir in limited 
circumstances such as:  (a) prophylaxis of workers engaged in culling activities; (b) 
prophylaxis of health care workers caring for patients with confirmed avian influenza; 
and (c) during the pre-pandemic phase, household and other close contacts of patients 
with confirmed avian influenza.  The project will also support use of oseltamivir for 
treatment.  The project will support the procurement through WHO of 200 treatment 
courses of oseltamivir in the two national referral centers, 50 treatment courses in each 
province, with a 25% annual replacement estimate.  
 
Page  6
?
Seasonal influenza vaccine for health care workers and poultry culling workers.  
Persons at high risk of exposure to avian influenza virus should be vaccinated against 
regular (or seasonal) influenza.  This will reduce the opportunity for simultaneous co-
infection with human and avian viruses, a circumstance which can promote re-assortment 
and enhance person-to-person transmissibility. Since influenza viruses naturally drift 
from year-to-year, this vaccine must be given annually. 
 
?
Development of Strategies to Deal with the Pandemic Phase.  It has been 
estimated that with no interventions, at the peak of an influenza pandemic 30-40% of the 
population of a community may be ill at the same time, with 10% of these individuals (3-
4% of the population) severely ill.  Therefore it is important to develop strategies to deal 
with possible shortages of health care workers during the pandemic phase, and to develop 
strategies to reinforce the health care workforce.  Among the possible strategies to be 
employed are shifting health care workers from less affected to more affected 
communities, developing a volunteer workforce, and bringing health care workers no 
longer actively engaged in health care back onto temporary service (i.e.,a reserve force). 
A
third area that requires advanced planning are social distancing measures that can play 
an important role in limiting the spread of disease and reducing overall morbidity and 
mortality.   
 
Management, Communication And Public Awareness (US$2.6 million) 
 
Under the AI Secretariat, based in the Planning and Policy Department of the Ministry 
of Agriculture and Irrigation, this component will finance goods and services for 
coordinating/managing project implementation, communication and public awareness for 
the following activities.  
 
1)
Project Coordination and Management 
 
This sub-component will finance costs associated with project coordination, planning, 
management, monitoring and evaluation, financial management, procurement and 
safeguards monitoring functions as well as transportation and general office equipment. 
 
The sub-component will also strengthen coordination of activities at provincial levels by 
financing the recruitment of additional staff in seven zones (on average serving some 4-5 
provinces each). The MAI and the MOPH will ensure that Provincial AI Committees are 
formed and counterparts from each of the two ministries have been assigned to the AI 
Secretariat.  
 
2)
Communication and Public Awareness 
 
This sub-component will finance the development and production of appropriate 
communication material, plan of action, capacity building to all stakeholders and 
awareness raising at grass roots levels through intensive communication. The overall aim 
is to: a) elevate public awareness with regard to AI, its dangers and immediate control 
measures, both with regard to animal and human health; b) give visibility to the 
multisectoral response; c) secure high-level political support; d) promote a pro-active 
community-driven response; and e) install a feedback and reporting mechanism, to foster 
two-way information flows within two kind of communication activities: 
 
?
Extensive Communication: Awareness raising efforts aimed at targeting a broader 
audience through mass media, educational, public health and agricultural institutions.  
Page  7
?
Intensive Communication: Gender sensitive communicators in the mobile 
response units: Support shall be provided to train women, to act as Communication 
Officers in the mobile units responding to the outbreaks.  
 
A
detailed implementation plan of communications and public awareness activities are 
being prepared by UNICEF, which could form the basis for an operational manual in 
communication.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The extent to which the project will be able to assist farmers throughout the country is 
critically dependent on the security situation.  Security remains problematic in some 
provinces because of the limited extent of government authority. Aid agencies can face 
threats from crime, inter-warlord rivalries, and opponents to the government (primarily 
from Taliban and the Hizb-e-Islami). The security situation in the country is expected to 
ease in the coming years, but risks remain, particularly in the South. Preliminary 
operations of the project have therefore been designed to avoid areas of persistent risk.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASES) 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASES) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental Impacts: The Project is assessed as a Category B Project. Activities under 
the proposed Project are expected to generate no or limited adverse environmental 
effects, since most activities of the Project are considered to support preventive measures. 
The Project will, generally, have positive environmental and social impacts as the 
project?s investments in facilities, equipment, laboratories, and training will improve the 
effectiveness and safety of existing avian influenza handling and testing procedures. This 
would be reinforced by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into the protocols 
and procedures for the culling and disposal of animals during AI outbreaks, 
Page  8
decontamination of production facilities, and laboratories. However, adverse 
environmental health impacts, mainly unintentional from the spread of HPAI, could 
occur when an emergency operation involves containment of HPAI outbreaks through 
quarantine, isolation and stamping out actions and when relevant mitigation measures are 
not in place. Most of the key potential impacts could be avoided or minimized by 
integrating environmental and public health safety aspects in the preparation/design and 
implementation of the project activities.  
 
Worker Safety.  The suggested investments in health facilities, equipment, clothes, staff 
training and waste management will improve the safety and effectiveness of HPAI 
handling and testing procedures. The PIM to be prepared prior to the disbursement should 
include these provisions.  
 
Social Aspects.  In Afghanistan though the poultry is not a major commercial and a 
significant economic activity, however, raising few chickens in family backyard is a 
major livelihood, income and food security issue for the poor section of the society incl. 
the female-headed households. Nearly 98 percent of the poultry sector is owned and 
managed by women as one of the very few economic activities accessible to women. Not 
only is the poultry sector a good source of income for some of the most vulnerable 
households in rural areas but also a significant source of nutrition. Therefore, 
interventions in the poultry sector will disproportionately benefit the most vulnerable 
section of the society and would positively contribute to addressing the gender bias in the 
society. Therefore, the project is seen to cause significant positive social impacts.  
 
The observance of purdah norms and wide-spread gender segregation practiced in 
Afghanistan necessitate special efforts to reach women in terms of the communications 
campaign and to ensure equitable access to health facilities. Likewise, compensation for 
culled birds should be issued directly to the bird owner (in most cases women) rather than 
to the head of household.  
 
Land Acquisition: There will be no Land Acquisition (voluntary or involuntary) under 
the project, and carcasses of culled birds will only be deposited on public land. For 
backyard poultry operations, the  local committee witnessing the culling and the local 
veterinarian sign a document stating the carcass deposit area for is public property and 
free of encroachers/informal settlements. In case of semi-commercial poultry farms, the 
zonal veterinarian and an official from the local administration will sign a document 
stating that the carcass deposit area is public land and free of encroachers/informal 
settlements.  
 
Ethnic Minority Groups: The project is national in coverage and benefiting  all 
households at risk irrespective of ethnic, religious or regional affiliation  
 
Cultural Property: No impact on the cultural properties are foreseen under the project.   
 
Page  9
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Project will assist the government in developing a strategy for managing future 
emerging and re-emerging zoonotic and infectious disease outbreaks.  Such a strategy 
would improve environmental and social safeguards in three areas:  (i) mainstreaming 
environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the stamping out and disposal 
of animals during an outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE standards; (ii) improving 
understanding of the relevant practitioners of waste management systems in health 
facilities; and (iii) developing policies on compensation for poultry farmers affected by 
future outbreaks.  
 
As an emergency operation under OP/OD 8.50, the safeguard documents are not 
required to be prepared and disclosed prior to appraisal.  However, it is expected that the 
EMP for the carcass disposal facilities will need to be prepared and disclosed prior to the 
appraisal.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include rural communities who participate in the project, MAI staff, 
MPH staff as well as National Emergency Response Committee.  
 
The Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework will be disclosed by the 
government through in Dari and Pashto, as well as English through a publication and the 
government's Web site. It will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop.  The 
following information on the project will be posted on the government's Web site:  
summaries of quarterly implementation progress reports, summaries of annual project 
financial statements and audit reports, and summaries of findings from monitoring and 
supervision teams (after a reasonable period allowed for internal review).   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/26/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/04/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/29/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Page  10
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  11
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Norman Bentley Piccioni 
09/20/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli 
09/20/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Asta Olesen 
09/20/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
10/03/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gajanand Pathmanathan 
 
Comments:   
