Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2567 
Project Name 
Avian Influenza Control Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Animal production (40%);Health (40%);General information and 
communications sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P100935 
Borrower(s) 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, Ministry of Public Health 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 22, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Afghanistan has some of the poorest social, economic and health indicators in the world, as a result of a 
quarter-century of devastating civil strife and half a decade of e
qually devastating drought. UNDP’s 
global human development index ranks Afghanistan close to the bottom of the list. Years of conflict has 
not only devastated the social and economic fabric of Afghanistan but has also caused significant brain 
drain. Much-needed human capital has been significantly diminished and the physical infrastructure is in 
a
state of near ruin.  
As of 4 May 2006, FAO has reported some 26 confirmed cases of H5N1 virus in sampled chicken in 4 
provinces since sampling and testing started about a month earlier. The virus is spreading fast and new 
provinces have been infected in close succession since the first case was found in Nangarhar province.  
The livestock census indicated that small ruminants and cattle stood at about half the population of 1998, 
just before the start of an unprecedented drought in the country. Recovery since the census has not been 
significant and certainly the livestock population is nowhere near 1998 levels. Therefore, any significant 
substitution between poultry and red-meat in the event of an HPAI outbreak may not be a viable option. 
This will have a significant impact on the already poor dietary composition of a large proportion of the 
population.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the grant is to minimize the threat posed by HPAI to the poultry sector and 
prepare for possible spread of the AI to humans, through necessary short-and medium-term measures to 
identify, control and mitigate the effects of the panzootic. To achieve this, three areas will be considered 
for support: (i) prevention, (ii) preparedness and planning and (iii) response and containment.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Bank involvement is justified by the 
global public good
 aspect of the HPAI, one of many emerging and 
re-emerging transboundary zoonoses. A human flu pandemic could cause significant increases in poverty 
Page  2
in developing countries. To be effective, the response requires coordination across countries and agencies 
at the international and regional levels and coordination across ministries within countries. It also requires 
substantial financial resources in some cases. The Bank is well-placed to work in this environment, in 
partnership with international technical agencies, other multilateral agencies, and donor countries.  
The Bank has endorsed the FAO/OIE Global Strategy to minimize the global threat and risk of HPAI in 
domestic poultry and humans through progressive control and eradication of HPAI, particularly that 
caused by H5N1 virus from terrestrial domestic poultry. Furthermore the Bank, in collaboration with the 
EU, WHO, FAO, OIE and bilateral donors, has initiated the establishment of a multi-donor trust fund for 
Avian and Human Influenza (AHITF) that primarily supports country level activities in conjunction with 
a
smaller and complementary role at the regional and global levels.  
The country level activities with regard to progressive control and eradication of the HPAI are considered 
a
fundamental building block towards the eradication of the HPAI at global level. The Bank has already 
been working with a number of national governments around the world, the FAO, OIE, WHO, EU, other 
partners and bi-and multilateral agencies in the preparation of National AI Preparedness Plan and 
strategies.  
The HPAI control and eradication programs are complex and require a multi-disciplinary approach to 
integrate technical, social, economic, political and regulatory issues. The Bank is well placed to draw on 
its vast experience throughout the world in multi disciplinary approaches to tackle similar emergency 
preparedness, risk-mitigation and other projects and programs requiring multi-disciplinary approaches. In 
addition, the Bank has comparative advantage in drawing on appropriate financial resources in relatively 
short period of time in support of emergency preparedness and response projects. The Bank is an active 
member of the NAIS, headed by the MAI, and has already demonstrated its capability to bring together 
relevant and important national and international institutions in support of a national preparedness plan.   
The Bank, recognizing the importance of the poultry sector, has recently approved a US$20 million grant, 
part of which aims to support the poultry sector development (Emergency Horticulture and Livestock 
Project - P098256).  
 
4. Description 
The project will finance activities under three components: (i) animal health, (ii) human health, and  (iii) 
Coordination, communications and public awareness. 
Animal Health Component
(US$5.2 million) 
 
Under the responsibility of the Animal Health Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, 
this component will support a national program to develop and implement HPAI prevention, containment, 
control, and eradication activities in the livestock sector, specific to the needs of Afghanistan in the short 
and medium term.  
1) Strengthening of HPAI Control and Outbreak Containment Capacity 
 
·
Virus Eradication at the Source.  
Support for: (i) culling of infected and at-risk poultry 
(stamping out), (ii) compensation to farmers
1
and commercial poultry producers, (iii) disposal of 
1
After the emergency project, restocking with locally produced chicks would be one of the compensation 
mechanisms. 
Page  3
carcasses and potentially infective materials in a bio-secure and environmentally acceptable 
manner, (iv) enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and associated premises through bio-
containment and bio-exclusion; (v) control of movement of birds and products that may be 
infected, including controls at the interface of infected/non-infected areas and border controls, 
and (vi) poultry vaccination.  
 
·
Human Safety.
 
Training in preventing the spread of virus to staff directly involved in the HPAI 
control and containment for veterinary and extension field staff involved in the identification of 
the disease, farm workers involved in culling and in disposing of manure, and laboratory workers 
involved in virus isolation and diagnosis.  
 
·
Strengthening the National Policy and Regulatory Environment.  
Activities aimed at 
improving the policy, legal and regulatory framework as well as inter-ministerial coordination 
and cooperation. The regulatory environment would be enhanced through the development of a 
HPAI Contingency Plan, which will include the identification, early warning, rapid reaction and 
response to HPAI. The Contingency Plan will contribute to further development and streamlining 
the draft National Action Plan
2
.
Support for Regulation of the Poultry Sector through a 
comprehensive assessment of present policies regulating the Afghan poultry sector and provision 
of appropriate recommendations if necessary to enhance bio-security measures. 
2) Strengthening HPAI clinical and laboratory diagnosis and surveillance for rapid and effective 
outbreak detection and containment capacity 
 
·
Strengthening Disease Surveillance.
 
This will be achieved through support for (i) development 
of effective operating procedures at all levels based on FAO guidelines; (ii) staff training in 
epidemiological surveillance techniques; (iii) implementation of regular passive and active 
epidemiological studies and surveillance programs in commercial and smallholder poultry; (iv) 
implementation of an acti
ve surveillance program around identified ‘hot spots (wetlands)’ for 
migratory birds, to assess risks of contact between migratory fowl, domestic poultry and humans 
and (v) sero-surveillance in vaccinated poultry. 
 
·
Strengthening  Diagnostic Capacity.
 
Strengthening the capacity of the Central Veterinary 
Laboratory and public and private field staff, in detection, reporting, sample collection and 
submission, and follow-up of reported AI cases.   
3)  Improving the capacity of poultry stakeholders to adopt appropriate measures to counter HPAI 
presence in Afghanistan 
 
·
Community-Based
 
Animal Disease Surveillance and Early Warning
.
The project will 
finance training courses in, and implementation of participatory disease survey techniques for 
female animal health workers/women poultry trainers, in handling of infected animals, reporting 
procedures and immediate local response measures. 
 
·
Improving Bio-Security in Poultry Production
.
Develop guidelines and provide training to 
commercial and backyard poultry owners in bio-security measures, early identification of poultry 
diseases, reporting, and early measures to control and contain the disease. 
Improvement of Bio-
Security through Enhanced Local Production of Day-old Chicks and Restocking
 is included 
2
Action Plan For Facing HPAI outbreak, Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, Animal Health and Production 
Deportment, Islamic State of Afghanistan: written March 2006. 
Page  4
in the WB-funded Emergency Horticulture and Livestock Project (EHLP) and not considered 
under the proposed AHIP.  
4)  Waste Management and Sanitation 
 
This sub-component envisages the preparation of a national plan, standard guidelines and an Operational 
Manual in HPAI-related waste management as well as equipment and supplies to support healthy and 
environmentally friendly disposal of culled animals, laboratory waste disposal and decontamination. 
Detailed TORs for an international consultant to prepare guidelines and Operational Manuals are 
available in the project Operational Manual. 
Human Health Component
(US$ 2.6 Million) 
 
1) Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and Coordination 
 
·
Support for an avian influenza coordinator within the Ministry of Public Health.
 
At present, 
there is no individual in the Ministry of Public Health who is responsible for coordination of 
activities related to avian influenza and human health.  Such an individual is necessary because 
the required elements of human avian influenza surveillance, response, and case management, 
including those activities that are part of this proposal, fall within different parts of the MOPH.  
The avian influenza human health coordinator will be responsible for assuring that activities are 
implemented in a timely fashion.   
 
·
Development of command and control structures within the Ministry of Public Health.
 
The 
current ability of the MOPH to manage complex emergencies, such as disease outbreaks, is both 
limited and fragmented. Controlling avian influenza will require a structure that can integrate 
surveillance information, communications, deployment of response teams, pharmaceuticals 
management, specimen and test result tracking, and can undertake liaison with international, 
provincial, and local health authorities and with other parts of government. The project will 
support activities to assess the current institutional arrangements within the MOPH for both 
command and control, make recommendations for developing a unified structure, including 
staffing and equipment, and support the formation of the command and control unit. The project 
will also provide funding for the director of the command and control unit.    
 
·
Development of protocols and guidelines for disease surveillance, response, and case 
management
.
The MOPH has developed limited guidelines regarding disease surveillance, 
including dissemination of a case definition.  Guidelines and protocols are available from many 
international organizations (WHO, CDC, the European CDC, other countries that have 
experienced human illness from avian influenza), however, these guidelines must be adapted for 
Afghanistan-specific circumstances. Uniform standards for disease surveillance, reporting, 
investigation, and case management, are critically needed because training activities cannot 
commence until such materials are in place.  WHO will take the lead in developing the guidelines 
but the project will support the rapid development, production, and dissemination of such 
protocols and guidelines. The project will also support periodic (at least annual) review and 
modification of existing protocols and guidelines as the human dimensions and state of 
knowledge of avian influenza evolve. 
 
·
Training.
 The project will support a performance-based contract with IbnSina Training Institute 
to train health workers on surveillance, diagnosis, and management. The performance of IbnSina 
will be assessed by MOPH and Johns Hopkins University as part of an existing system of health 
Page  5
facility surveys (the “balanced scorecard”). The contract will cover material preparation and 
printing, travel and per diem for this training when necessary. The project will provide resources 
for periodic refresher courses, especially as the national situation, and the state of knowledge of 
avian influenza, evolves. 
 
·
Conduct of tabletop and field simulations
.
Once protocols and guidelines are in place, it is 
important to conduct exercises to assure that policy-makers and health care managers understand 
how to respond to avian influenza and can identify and correct any gaps or deficiencies in the 
system. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and WHO will 
design these exercises based on experience in other countries. The project will support the design 
and implementation of two tabletop exercises and two field exercises. One of the tabletop and one 
of the field exercises should take place during the first year of the project, while the remaining 
exercises should take place in the second year to assess progress. 
 
2)  Strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance System 
 
·
Support to the acute flaccid paralysis (AFP)/poliomyelitis surveillance system to add avian 
influenza monitoring.
 
The AFP/polio surveillance network is currently the most comprehensive 
surveillance system in Afghanistan and is ideal for avian influenza surveillance during the pre-
pandemic phase when it will be critical to identify single cases or small numbers of persons with 
this disease.  As it currently operates, the AFP system will be used over the first half of the 
project period for this purpose 
unless and until alternative surveillance systems are developed by 
the MOPH.
 
In addition to existing mechanisms for pediatric disease (up to age 15 for AFP), the 
AFP system will need to expand its monitoring to include potential adult cases.  Support to use 
the AFP system for avian influenza surveillance will be provided by WHO. 
 
·
Develop institutional capacity for avian influenza surveillance including data collection, 
analysis, and dissemination in the MOPH.
 The project will support the institutionalization of a 
network for the avian influenza component, including collection of data on viral pneumonia and 
influenza-like illness (ILI), from the local to the provincial to the national level. The project will 
support purchases of equipment (primarily computers), training, transportation, information 
dissemination through monthly bulletins, and a surveillance unit director and data manager.  
 
·
Support to rapid response teams
.
Each province in Afghanistan has rapid response teams (also 
known as emergency response teams) that have been developed to conduct investigations and 
institute control measures in emergency or outbreak situations. There are also national level teams 
which provide back-up support to the provincial teams.  The technical skill of these response 
teams is inconsistent, as is their training.  The project will offer support to these teams, including 
training (included above), communications, transportation, and personal protective equipment.  
 
·
Building diagnostic capacity in the central diagnostic laboratory in the Ministry of Public 
Health
.
The MOPH, with assistance from other donors will establish a central laboratory to 
conduct RT-PCR testing and virus isolation. The project will thus, supply reagents for RT-PCR, 
finance the shipment of supplies from the provinces to Kabul, from Kabul to international 
reference centers, and viral transport media.  
 
3)  Strengthening the Health Care System Response Capacity 
 
·
Upgrading of referral institutions for persons with suspected or confirmed avian influenza
.
During the pre-pandemic and pandemic phases of avian influenza there will need to be 
Page  6
specialized isolation wards in referral facilities to isolate and care for persons with suspected or 
confirmed disease. The project will finance a contract with a competitively selected NGO or other 
organization to establish isolation wards in at least two hospitals in Kabul. The contractor will be 
responsible for minor renovations, purchase of equipment and supplies, transport of a stipulated 
number of patients, and operation of the wards in compliance with guidelines and protocols that 
are developed.  
 
·
Personal protective equipment (PPE)
.
Health care workers who will be caring for persons with 
suspected or confirmed avian influenza should utilize protective equipment to reduce their risk of 
exposure and infection.  Standards for PPE have been established by WHO. The project will 
obtain 200 sets of PPE per referral hospital, 50 sets per provincial hospital, 25 sets per district 
hospital, and five sets per basic and comprehensive health center.  The project will also budget for 
a
25% replacement rate per year.  The project will also fund shipping and distribution costs and it 
is expected that the procurement will be handled by UNICEF.   
 
·
Antiviral medications.
 
As currently circulating avian influenza (H5N1) viruses are resistant to 
M2 inhibitors (amantadine and rimantidine), the only currently feasible antiviral option is the 
neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir (for both prophylaxis and treatment). The project will support 
prophylactic use of oseltamivir in limited circumstances such as:  (a) prophylaxis of workers 
engaged in culling activities; (b) prophylaxis of health care workers caring for patients with 
confirmed avian influenza; and (c) during the pre-pandemic phase, household and other close 
contacts of patients with confirmed avian influenza.  The project will also support use of 
oseltamivir for treatment.  The project will support the procurement through WHO of 200 
treatment courses of oseltamivir in the two national referral centers, 50 treatment courses in each 
province, with a 25% annual replacement estimate.  
 
·
Seasonal influenza vaccine for health care workers and poultry culling workers.
 
Persons at 
high risk of exposure to avian influenza virus should be vaccinated against regular (or seasonal) 
influenza.  This will reduce the opportunity for simultaneous co-infection with human and avian 
viruses, a circumstance which can promote re-assortment and enhance person-to-person 
transmissibility. Since influenza viruses naturally drift from year-to-year, this vaccine must be 
given annually.
 
·
Development of Strategies to Deal with the Pandemic Phase
.
It has been estimated that with 
no interventions, at the peak of an influenza pandemic 30-40% of the population of a community 
may be ill at the same time, with 10% of these individuals (3-4% of the population) severely ill.  
Therefore it is important to develop strategies to deal with possible shortages of health care 
workers during the pandemic phase, and to develop strategies to reinforce the health care 
workforce.  Among the possible strategies to be employed are shifting health care workers from 
less affected to more affected communities, developing a volunteer workforce, and bringing 
health care workers no longer actively engaged in health care back onto temporary service (i.e.,a 
reserve force). A third area that requires advanced planning are social distancing measures that 
can play an important role in limiting the spread of disease and reducing overall morbidity and 
mortality.  
 
Management, Communication And Public Awareness (US$2.6 million)
Page  7
Under the AI Secretariat, based in the Planning and Policy Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Irrigation, this component will finance goods and services for coordinating/managing project 
implementation, communication and public awareness for the following activities.  
1)  Project Coordination and Management 
This sub-component will finance costs associated with project coordination, planning, management, 
monitoring and evaluation, financial management, procurement and safeguards monitoring functions as 
well as transportation and general office equipment. 
The sub-component will also strengthen coordination of activities at provincial levels by financing the 
recruitment of additional staff in seven zones (on average serving some 4-5 provinces each). The MAI 
and the MOPH will ensure that Provincial AI Committees are formed and counterparts from each of the 
two ministries have been assigned to the AI Secretariat.  
2)  Communication and Public Awareness 
This sub-component will finance the development and production of appropriate communication material, 
plan of action, capacity building to all stakeholders and awareness raising at grass roots levels through 
intensive communication. The overall aim is to: a) elevate public awareness with regard to AI, its dangers 
and immediate control measures, both with regard to animal and human health; b) give visibility to the 
multisectoral response; c) secure high-level political support; d) promote a pro-active community-driven 
response; and e) install a feedback and reporting mechanism, to foster two-way information flows within 
two kind of communication activities: 
·
Extensive Communication:
 Awareness raising efforts aimed at targeting a broader audience 
through mass media, educational, public health and agricultural institutions.  
·
Intensive Communication: 
Gender sensitive communicators in the mobile response units: 
Support shall be provided to train women, to act as Communication Officers in the mobile units 
responding to the outbreaks.  
A
detailed implementation plan of communications and public awareness activities are being prepared by 
UNICEF, which could form the basis for an operational manual in communication. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
6 
 Total 
6 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Department of Animal Health of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation will be technically 
responsible for the animal health component. It will be supported in this function by an implementing 
partner, which is expected to be FAO, subject to agreement on the terms and conditions.  
 
Similarly, the Department of Communicable Diseases of the Ministry of Public Health will be technically 
responsible for the human health component. Some of the implementing functions are expected to be 
delegated to WHO and UNICEF within framework agreements already existing with the Ministry. 
 
The AI Secretariat, based in the Department of Policy and Planning of MAI at central level, and 
represented in seven zones at the local level, will be responsible for overall project coordination and 
management through an implementation support team composed of a full time project coordinator and 
Page  8
specialists in planning, monitoring, financial and procurement management, and safeguards (see 
Appendix 10 for details). The AIS will also be responsible for the technical implementation of the 
communication and public awareness component, which will be supported through an agreement with 
UNICEF.  
 
The Technical Committee (TCAI) will provide quality control, implementation oversight, and 
coordination of all relevant technical issues, while the Finance Committee (FCAI) will provide the same 
functions for the financial and procurement aspects (see Appendix 6 and 7, Procurement and Financial 
Management Arrangements, respectively).  
 
At the field level, the Provincial AI Committees (PAICs) will coordinate and manage AI activities in the 
respective provinces. The technical members of the PAIC shall ensure that implementation of the various 
components of the project are in accordance with the stipulated standards, norms, rules and regulations 
–
not only technical but also social and cultural norms. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project has been designed with long-term sustainability in mind.  The investments in laboratory 
facilities, equipment and staff training will improve effectiveness and safety of avian influenza handling 
and testing procedures by meeting international standards established by OIE.  If there are existing 
guidelines from other projects, for the handling of medical waste generated in health care facilities, such 
guidelines will be adapted.  The Project will also support updating of these guidelines, training of 
healthcare workers to manage medical wastes according to these guidelines and, if necessary, the 
purchase of equipment for the proper handling and disposal of medical waste in participating facilities.   
 
The Project will assist the government in developing a strategy for managing future emerging and re-
emerging zoonotic and infectious disease outbreaks.  Such a strategy would improve environmental and 
social safeguards in three areas:  (i) mainstreaming environmental safeguards into protocols and 
procedures for the stamping out and disposal of animals during an outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE 
standards; (ii) improving understanding of the relevant practitioners of waste management systems in 
health facilities; and (iii) developing policies on compensation for poultry farmers affected by future 
outbreaks. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The design of the proposed project draws on experience from the implementation of a large number of 
emergency and rehabilitation projects in Afghanistan and from the World Bank experience with 
HIV/AIDS epidemic project design
3
,
and from the AI Emergency Recovery Project in Vietnam, though 
18 months since its implementation.  
Some of the key lessons learned are as follows:  
·
Preparedness is a key factor. In Vietnam, there was a national strategy document on controlling 
AI in the poultry population, but it was not clearly understood and shared by all relevant agencies 
and stakeholders, and some aspects of the response have been lagging behind. 
3
World Bank, 2005. Committing to Results: Improving the Effectiveness of HIV/AIDS Assistance. OED Evaluation 
of the World Bank’s Assistance for HIV/AIDS Control.  
Page  9
·
A
two-pronged strategy is recommended. This should include: (i) the control of AI at the source 
at high risk regions (through aggressive measures including culling, movement control and 
vaccination campaign for poultry); and (ii) simultaneously prepare short and medium-term 
measures to minimize the risks to humans and prepare for an eventual pandemic. 
·
A
high level coordination for cross-sectoral responsibilities (in the case of Afghanistan at the 
President’s office) and to have full-time project coordinators to implement project activities in a 
“crisis situation” significantly contributes to implementation efficacy. 
·
There is an urgent need to organize and effective national response, including all technical 
ministries in charge of animal health and human health as well as other relevant sectors, at the 
national and sub-national level in case of a human epidemic.  
·
It is important to raise awareness in the public and private sectors from the initial moments and to 
strengthen effective coordination mechanisms for the implementation of the necessary technical 
responses involving the Government, the donor community, the private sector and the civil 
society. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
X
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) 
[ ] 
[ X 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ X 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Norman Bentley Piccioni
/
Benjamin P. Loevinsohn 
Title: Lead Rural Development Specialist/ Lead Public Health Specialist 
Tel:  
Fax:  
Email: 
npiccioni@worldbank.org/
bloevinsohn@worldbank.org
Location: Kabul Afghanistan / Washington DC 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
