                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001351



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-H2670 TF-57769)



                                      ON

                                   GRANTS

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF
                       USD 13 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                   TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                   FOR AN

  AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                    AND RESPONSE PROJECT



                              September 20, 2010




Agriculture and Rural Development Department (SASDA)
Human Development Department (SASHD)
South Asia
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective as of July 2010)

                              Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                                   US$ 1.00 = 46.2 AFN

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    March 21 ­ March 20

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHDP      Animal Health Development Project       HPAI    Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
AHICP     Avian and Human Influenza Control       IST     Implementation Support Team
          Project
AHIF      Avian and Human Influenza Facility      KAP     Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
AI        Avian Influenza                         MAIL    Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and
                                                          Livestock
ANIPPRP   Afghanistan National Avian Influenza    MOPH    Ministry of Public Health
          and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness
          and Response Plan
AHDP      Animal Health Development Project       NAIC    National Avian Influenza Committee
APHI      Afghanistan Public Health Institute     NEPA    National Environment Protection
                                                          Agency
ARTF      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund   NSP     National Solidarity Project
CBP       Cross Border Project                    OiE     World Organization for Animal Health
CVL       Central Veterinary Laboratory           PDS     Participatory Disease Surveillance
DEWS      Disease Early Warning System            PICU    Project Implementation and
                                                          Coordination Unit
DVS       Department of Veterinary Service        PPE     Personal Protective Equipment
ERT       Emergency Response Team                 RRT     Rapid Response Team
EU        European Union                          ToT     Training of Trainers
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization       USAID   United States Agency for International
                                                          Development
GDAHP     General Directorate of Animal Health    VFU     Veterinary Field Unit
          and Production
GOA       Government of Afghanistan               WHO     World Health Organization
GPAI      Global Program for Avian Influenza
          Control and Human Pandemic
          Preparedness and Response
HLP       Horticulture and Livestock Project



                               Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                             Country Director: Nicholas J. Krafft
                             Sector Managers: Simeon Ehui, Julie McLaughlin
                        Project Team Leaders: Usman Qamar, Tekabe Belay
                            ICR Team Leader: Usman Qamar
                                    AFGHANISTAN
                               Avian Influenza Control and
                     Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 20
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 4. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 46
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Avian Influenza
                                                                         Control and Human
Country:                Afghanistan               Project Name:
                                                                         Pandemic Preparedness
                                                                         and Response Project
Project ID:             P100935                   L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H2670,TF-57769
ICR Date:               09/22/2010                ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                         OF AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 8.0M                  Disbursed Amount:      USD 3.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Health
 Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process               Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/17/2006      Effectiveness:          05/30/2007        05/30/2007
Appraisal:             11/01/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/11/2007      Mid-term Review:        12/15/2008
                                       Closing:                03/31/2010        03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                  Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:             Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing            Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:        Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:            Unsatisfactory


                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       16                  16
General public administration sector                                   68                  68
Health                                                                 12                  12
Other social services                                                   1                   1
Solid waste management                                                  3                   3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                              13                  13
Natural disaster management                                            25                  25
Other communicable diseases                                            25                  25
Pollution management and environmental health                          13                  13
Rural services and infrastructure                                      24                  24

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                    Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Simeon Kacou Ehui                     Gajanand Pathmanathan
Project Team Leader:       Usman Qamar                           Norman Bentley Piccioni
ICR Team Leader:           Usman Qamar
ICR Primary Author:        Usman Qamar
                           Miki Terasawa




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The original project development objectives were to minimize the threat posed by HPAI
to humans in Afghanistan by controlling such infections among birds, especially
domestic poultry, and preparing for, controlling, and responding to possible human
infections, especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
In October 2009 there were H1N1 outbreaks in Afghanistan, and the Government
requested assistance under the project to respond to the emergency. To accommodate
this request the PDO was clarified as follows: to minimize the threat posed to humans by
HPAI infection and other zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza
pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Evidence of widespread adoption of recommended practices for the control and
Indicator 1 :
                  eradication of HPAI among poultry producers, distributors, and retail vendors
Value
quantitative or   71.6%                    100%                              70.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2007               03/31/2010                        07/31/2010
Comments
                  The baseline was obtained by a KAP survey on the five appropriate poultry
(incl. %
                  handling practices. The actual value was based on the beneficiary survey.
achievement)
                Evidence of improved effectiveness of participating animal and human health
Indicator 2 :
                services in responding to the risk of an HPAI outbreak
Value           Low effectiveness of
quantitative or response preparation for 100%                                N/A (no outbreak)
Qualitative)    identified risks
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2010                        03/31/2010
Comments        Since no HPAI outbreaks took place during the project life the effectiveness of
(incl. %        response preparation was not put to test. However, the response to suspected
achievement) outbreaks was adequate in terms of sample collection and laboratory tests.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                 Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                   approval                     Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                  documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Animal Health: HPAI control and outbreak containment strengthened
Value             (a) Legislation out of date (a) Legislation                (a) Legislation


                                                iii
(quantitative   (1970s); guidelines non-   amended; 100%                    revised, draft
or Qualitative) existent;                  training conducted               contingency plan
                (b) Teams insufficiently   and completed;                   and training
                trained and practicing     (b) Two culling                  manuals prepared
                unsafe culling methods;    teams per zone                   (Competed by
                (c) Vaccination            trained and                      March 2010);
                depending on outbreak.     operational;                     (b) One ERT per
                                           (c) 100% coverage                zone trained;
                                           of vaccination in                (c) N/A (no
                                           case of epidemic                 outbreak)
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2010                       03/31/2010
Comments
                In 2008-2009 due to an outbreak in Pakistan, 380,000 poultry in
(incl. %
                commercial/semi-commercial farms were vaccinated.
achievement)
                Animal Health: A national diagnostic and surveillance system established for
Indicator 2 :
                rapid HPAI detection
                (a) No Training of
                                                                            (a) TOTs
                Trainers(ToT) on           (a) 8 ToT
                                                                            conducted; 8 ERTs
                diagnosis, reporting and conducted;
Value                                                                       trained; no contract
                surveillance; no training contracts signed
(quantitative                                                               signed with NGOs
                courses conducted;         with NGOs;
or Qualitative)                                                             or Veterinary Field
                (b) Pilot surveillance     (b) 20 teams in 8
                                                                            Units (VFUs);
                work on going under        zones
                                                                            (b) 8 ERTs trained
                FAO project
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2008                       03/31/2010
Comments        Work on the scope and design of NGO contracts was started but contracts could
(incl. %        not be concluded before project closing. This is now being carried forward by
achievement) other projects.
                Animal Health: Capacity of poultry stakeholders developed in bio-security
Indicator 3 :
                measures
                0 women trained in
Value           community disease                                           20 women trained
(quantitative   surveillance, early        200 women                        in disease
or Qualitative) warning and farm                                            surveillance
                biosecurity measures
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments
                Training of women in community based bio-security surveillance was planned
(incl. %
                but could not started before project closing
achievement)
                Animal Health: Guidelines developed for safe disposal and management of
Indicator 4 :
                biological and solid waste
                                           Manuals
Value
                No manuals on waste        developed and
(quantitative                                                               Completed
                management                 translated in local
or Qualitative)
                                           languages
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2008                       03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                               iv
                  Human Health: A national program implemented for the identification, early
Indicator 5 :     warning, prevention, containment, control and eradication of HPAI in the human
                  health sector
                  (a) 0 health care workers
                                                                               (a) 4,200 workers
                  received HPAI case
                                                                               trained;
                  management training;
                                             (a) 9,000 workers                 (b) 90%
Value             (b) 0% of surveillance
                                             trained (90%);                    (Completed by
(quantitative     sites enabled to report
                                             (b) 80%;                          March 2010);
or Qualitative)   cases;
                                             (c) 90%                           (c) 100%
                  (c) 0% of provincial and
                                                                               (Completed by July
                  district hospitals with
                                                                               2009)
                  PPEs and antivirals
Date achieved     12/18/2006                 03/31/2010                        03/31/2010
                  Surveillance sites were supported under other programs. PPEs were also initially
Comments
                  supplied by other programs but subsequently 4,000 sets of PPEs, 7,000 courses
(incl. %
                  of oseltamivir and 3,000 doses of seasonal flu vaccine were procured under the
achievement)
                  project.
Indicator 6 :     Communication: Improved public awareness about AHI at all levels
                  (a) No national integrated
                                                                               (a) Completed by
                  and comprehensive
Value                                                                          July 2009;
                  communication strategy; (a) Fully in place;
(quantitative                                                                  (b) 94.5%
                  (b) 0% of targeted         (b) 80%
or Qualitative)                                                                (beneficiary survey
                  population informed of
                                                                               in July 2010)
                  the AI risk and program
Date achieved     12/18/2006                 03/31/2010                        07/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        The communication strategy was prepared jointly with UNICEF.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Project Management: Capacity built at provincial and central level
                                                                           (a) AI committees
                                                                           established in 4
                (a) 0 provincial AI      (a) 34 (in all                    provinces (achieved
Value
                committees established; provinces);                        in 2008);
(quantitative
                (b) No effective and     (b) System                        (b) System
or Qualitative)
                interactive M&E system established                         established
                                                                           (completed by
                                                                           November 2009)
Date achieved 12/18/2006                 03/31/2010                        03/31/2010
Comments
                However, the M&E system (for animal health component) remained weak till an
(incl. %
                international M&E specialist was finally recruited in November 2009.
achievement)
                Project Management: Appropriate safeguard and safety measures established for
Indicator 8 : environmental protection, solid waste management and reducing risks of hazard
                exposure
                (a) No Environmental     (a) EMP prepared                  (a) EMP prepared
Value           Management Plan (EMP); and approved by                     and approved
(quantitative   (b) No operational       the National                      (completed by July
or Qualitative) manuals, guidelines,     Environment                       2009);
                norms and standards for Protection Agency                  (b) Manuals and


                                                 v
                solid waste management (NEPA);                          guidelines prepared
                and disposal practices for (b) All established
                labs, culling and other
                operations
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2010                   03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Manuals and guidelines are in draft.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Project Management: An effective information system established
                                                                        (a) Program aired
                (a) No communication
                                                                        daily for one week
                training material and
                                           (a) Broadcast in 34          at 4 TV stations
Value           broadcasting material;
                                           provinces;                   with resources from
(quantitative   (b) 0 communication
                                           (b) 48 women (6              other donors (in
or Qualitative) officers trained per zone
                                           per zone)                    2008/9);
                for intensive
                                                                        (b) 30 women (5
                communication activities
                                                                        women in 6 zones)
Date achieved 12/18/2006                   03/31/2010                   03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                              IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1    06/12/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  2    12/15/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.50
                           Moderately                     Moderately
  3    06/14/2008                                                                        0.50
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  4    12/27/2008        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                   1.36
  5    05/19/2009        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                   1.84
  6    07/29/2009        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                   2.13
                           Moderately                     Moderately
  7    04/01/2010                                                                        2.97
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                     Moderately
  8    09/23/2010                                                                        3.25
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Since late 2003, outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) due to
influenza A (H5N1) have been reported globally. These outbreaks have been associated
with sporadic and clustered human disease with remarkably high fatality rates. In the
South Asia Region, there have been more than 520 outbreaks in animals, including 22 in
Afghanistan. These outbreaks were reported in four provinces (Nangarhar, Kabul, Kunar,
Laghman) in 2006 and 2007. 4 In response to the outbreaks in February 2006, the
Government of Afghanistan (GOA) established a National Avian Influenza Committee
(NAIC) 5 and prepared the National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic
Preparedness and Response Plan (ANIPPRP). The ANIPPRP was endorsed by GOA in
March 2006 and supplemented by a draft action plan. FAO established eight regional
emergency centers in Kabul, Nangarhar, Kandahar, Herat, Bamyan, Balkh, Kunduz and
Ghazni to prevent and control HPAI outbreaks. At these centers, veterinarians were
trained on surveillance, diagnostics and reporting, and initial supplies of rapid diagnostic
kits and personal protective equipment (PPE) were distributed.

1.1.2 As a result of more than a quarter-century of devastating civil strife and half a
decade of serious drought, Afghanistan has some of the poorest social, economic and
health indicators in the world with high susceptibility to communicable diseases. While
the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL) successfully contained the
outbreaks in 2006 and 2007 with support from FAO, facilities and capacities were judged
to be inadequate to detect, control, contain and mitigate an outbreak of HPAI. At the
time of appraisal, the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) under MAIL had no
budget for addressing the regulatory and public-good functions related to animal health.
These included the control of trans-boundary and zoonotic diseases, and the provision of
disease surveillance and food safety, and quality control of vaccines and veterinary
medications. Transport and telecommunication systems were weak, and MAIL had no
organized disease-information system. Moreover, there were insufficient graduate
veterinarians to provide an effective presence in provinces. On the other hand, with
support from NGOs, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) was increasing the delivery
of public healthcare services. Institutional structures were being established and a
disease surveillance and reporting system was under development. However, the quality
and completeness were variable.




4
  Source: OiE. Approximately 70% of the HPAI outbreaks in the Region occurred in Bangladesh. The
breakdown as of September 2, 2010 is: 353 outbreaks in Bangladesh, 82 in India, 51 in Pakistan, 22 in
Afghanistan, 9 in Nepal and 5 in Bhutan.
5
  NAIC includes Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock (MAIL), Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH), Ministry of Commerce (MOC), Ministry of Finance (MOF), National Environment Protection
Agency (NEPA) and representatives of concerned donors and implementing agencies such as FAO, WHO,
UNICEF, WB, USAID, USDA, EU and ADB.


                                                  1
1.1.3 The overall laboratory diagnostic capacity for animal and human disease was
limited. FAO was supporting the veterinary diagnostic laboratory of MAIL, to ensure the
availability of necessary HPAI diagnostic services6. On the human health side, most
infectious diseases diagnoses were based on clinical impression, although serologic
diagnosis through blood collection was performed for some diseases. Arrangements were
being made to enhance diagnostic capacities by WHO and the U.S. Naval Medical
Research Unit 3 (NAMRU3).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The original PDO was to minimize the threat posed by HPAI to humans in
Afghanistan by controlling such infections among birds, especially domestic poultry, and
preparing for, controlling, and responding to possible human infections, especially an
influenza epidemic and related emergencies.

1.2.2 The key outcome indicators listed in the Technical Annex for achieving the PDOs
were:

      (a) Evidence of widespread adoption of recommended practices for the control and
          eradication of HPAI among poultry producers, distributors, and retail vendors;
      (b) Evidence of improved effectiveness of participating animal and human health
          services in responding to the risk of HPAI outbreak

1.2.3 At the end of the project, it was expected that (i) the capacity of the agencies
involved in AI containment, control and mitigation would be significantly improved; (ii)
the threat to human health in the high risk provinces of Afghanistan would be
substantially reduced; and (iii) the general public would be aware of and adopt AI-related
human, animal health and environmental safeguards.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

1.3.1 Due to an outbreak of pandemic influenza H1N1 in Afghanistan in October 2009,
the PDO was clarified in November 2009 to expand the project scope to respond to H1N1
and other zoonoses. The revised PDO was to minimize the threat posed to humans by
HPAI and other zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza
pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 With the enhanced capacity and preparedness to respond to HPAI outbreaks, the
project was intended to benefit 22.5 million people in Afghanistan, by reducing (i) the
burden of disease in animals and the consequent of economic losses and (ii) the risk of
human infection and the loss of productivity attributable to human infections.
Specifically the project was intended to benefit the following target groups:


6
    This included RRT-PCR to identify H5 and ELISA testing for Type-A antibodies.


                                                    2
   (a) Backyard poultry holders (mostly poor women) and commercial and semi-
       commercial poultry farms who would benefit from increased awareness about
       preventive measures against AI;
   (b) Veterinary networks, laboratories, disease surveillance systems and hospitals
       which would benefit from strengthening and training and provision of facilities,
       equipment, vaccines, and antiviral drugs;
   (c) The participating ministries (MAIL, MOPH) which would benefit from training
       and capacity building as well as provision of transportation and equipments
       thereby making them better prepared to deal with outbreaks of AI and other
       zoonoses and infectious diseases.
   (d) Consumers and other stakeholders who would benefit from being better informed
       and aware of the risks to human health.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The project comprised four components and was intended to operate throughout
the country by building capacity in emergency response, surveillance and diagnostics at
national, regional and/or provincial levels. The original project cost was US$ 13 million,
financed by an IDA grant (US$ 8 million) and an Avian and Human Influenza Facility
grant (AHIF ­ US$ 5 million).

1.5.2 Component A. Animal Health (US$ 6.2 million, 48% of the total project cost)
was designed to support a national program to develop and implement HPAI prevention,
containment, control and eradication activities in the livestock sector of Afghanistan,
creating an effective system for improved bird health surveillance, diagnostic analysis
and disease control in accordance with FAO/OiE standards. The component comprised
seven sub-components:

       Sub-component A.1 Strengthening HPAI Control and Outbreak
       Containment Capacity supported the following activities: (a) establishment of
       eight zonal Emergency Response Teams (ERTs), composed of four veterinarians
       equipped with all necessary materials for field investigations and culling
       operations; (b) training for the ERTs including development of technical
       operation manuals on sample collection, storage and transportation, outbreaks
       investigation, methods for culling and disposal; (c) field simulation exercises; (d)
       procurement of vaccine (up to 6 million individual doses); (e) establishment and
       implementation of vaccination effectiveness monitoring program; and (f)
       transportation (procurement of vehicles and motorcycles).
       Sub-component A.2 Human Safety Assurance was designed to support the
       following activities: (a) extensive training activities provided by ERTs to field
       veterinarians, field staff and farm workers on prevention, early detection and self-
       protection; and (b) procurement and pre-positioning of 10,000 sets of PPEs in
       zonal offices.
       Sub-component A.3 Strengthening HPAI Clinical and Laboratory Diagnosis
       and Surveillance for Rapid and Effective Outbreak Detection and


                                            3
       Containment Capacity supported: (a) training and review of the regulatory and
       legislation framework and development of guidelines for compensation scheme;
       (b) improvement of capacity of the State Veterinary Department to rationalize
       information collected through surveillance; (c) training and preparation of
       guidelines and manuals in disease investigations; (d) remuneration for the
       veterinarians in surveillance; (e) training for field veterinarians on the animal and
       environment interface, including sample collection and recognition of wild birds
       species relevant to AI epidemiology; (f) procurement of sample collection
       materials to capture wild birds; and (g) strengthening the capacity of the Central
       Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory.
       Sub-component A.4 Improving the Capacity of Poultry Stakeholders to
       Adopt Appropriate Measures to Counter HPAI Presence was designed to
       support (a) surveillance in rural areas by trained women; and (b) development of
       printed materials on early warning and bio-security.
       Sub-component A.5 Compensation Facilities was to be set up to provide
       farmers with reimbursement for the loss of domestic poultry due to HPAI.
       Sub-component A.6 Technical Assistance ­ International Consultants were to
       provide technical expertise to national staff throughout the project.
       Sub-component A.7 Waste Management and Sanitation was designed to
       prepare a national safeguard plan, standard guidelines and an operational manual
       for HPAI-related waste management.

1.5.3 Component B. Human Health (US$ 3.4 million, 26% of the total project cost)
was designed to support a national program of activities to prevent, detect, respond to and
mitigate the impact of human illness caused by avian or pandemic influenza. The
component comprised three sub-components:

       Sub-component B.1 Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and
       Coordination was designed to provide the following: (a) support for an avian
       influenza coordinator within MOPH; (b) development of command and control
       structures within MOPH, and review of institutional infrastructure; (c)
       development of protocols and guidance for disease surveillance, response, and
       case management; (d) training workshops and activities for uniform
       implementation of protocols and guidelines for surveillance, response and case
       management; and (e) conducting desktop and field simulations.
       Sub-component B.2 Strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance
       System was designed to: (a) develop institutional capacity for avian influenza
       surveillance including data collection, analysis and dissemination in MOPH; (b)
       support emergency response teams, including training, communications,
       transportation, PPEs and incentives; and (c) equip major medical referral centers,
       by enhancing the capacity to perform 100 rapid tests per year at four key centers.
       Sub-component B.3 Strengthening the Health Care System Response
       Capacity was to support: (a) designation of regional health care facilities and
       upgrading of these facilities to serve as referral institutions for persons with
       suspected or confirmed avian influenza; (b) provision of PPEs at national,
       provincial and district hospitals; (c) provision of antiviral medications at national,


                                             4
       provincial, and district levels; (d) procurement, distribution and administration of
       seasonal influenza vaccine for health care workers and poultry culling workers;
       (e) development of case management strategies during the pandemic phase; (f)
       development of surge capacity in the health care system during a pandemic; and
       (g) development of social distancing measures.

1.5.4 Component C. Communication and Public Awareness (US$ 1.4 million, 11%
of the total project cost) was designed to finance baseline research, design, test and
implementation of a comprehensive and integrated communications strategy. The
component had two sub-components:

       Sub-component C.1 Extensive Communication was designed to provide (a)
       training to priority stakeholders, including poultry farmers, distributors and retail
       vendors; (b) training to media managers; (c) community-based mobilization and
       media support, in collaboration with the Bank supported National Solidarity
       Project (NSP) implemented by the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and
       Development (MRRD); (d) radio serials for sustainable awareness; and (e)
       advocacy to secure high-level political support.
       Sub-component C.2 Intensive Communication was to enable gender sensitive
       communicators in the mobile response units by establishing women
       communication ERTs in every zonal office.

1.5.5 Component D. Implementation Support (US$ 1.4 million, 11% of the total
project cost) facilitated institutional coordination and management of the project through
the following two sub-components:

       Sub-component D.1 Strengthening the National Policy and Regulatory
       Environment was designed to support activities to improve the policy, legal and
       regulatory framework relating to AI, including (a) finalizing the draft national
       action plan to operationalize the ANIPPRP; (b) development of a HPAI
       contingency plan; and (c) assessment of policies and regulations related to the
       poultry sector.
       Sub-component D.2 Project Coordination supported overall project
       management, including technical coordination, financial management,
       procurement, monitoring and evaluation and ad hoc consultancies.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The original project structure, with its four components (14 sub-components),
remained unchanged throughout the implementation period. However, in November
2009 the PDO was clarified to allow support for H1N1 related activities, including
training, awareness campaigns, and vaccinations.




                                            5
1.7 Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 Several significant changes were made during project implementation: (i) the
project included several conditions of disbursements. In October 2007, there was a
suspected outbreak of H5N17 in the Zherai district of Kandahar and the Government of
Afghanistan (GOA) requested a waiver for the remaining condition of disbursement, i.e.,
completion of key staffing. The Bank agreed to allow disbursements to proceed based on
the condition that staffing would be completed by January 31, 2008; (ii) the Financing
Agreement (FA) and the AHIF Grant Agreement did not include an explicit statement
that financing of taxes was not eligible under the AHIF. In June 2009 the FA was
amended to clarify this and to create a disbursement category for financing taxes related
to expenditures under the AHIF out of the IDA Grant; (iii) in November 2009, following
an H1N1 outbreak and based on an urgent request from GOA, the PDO was clarified to
allow support for H1N1 related activities; and (iv) in March 2010, an amount of SDR 2.6
million (US$ 4 million equivalent) from the IDA grant was canceled and made available
for recommitment within the Afghanistan portfolio before June 30, 20118.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Bank Involvement. Given the global public good nature of HPAI and other
emerging/re-emerging trans-boundary zoonotic and infectious diseases, Bank
involvement was justified. However, in a low capacity post-conflict environment,
operations that need to deal with emergencies (e.g., outbreaks of AI) are better supported
by donors operating outside of the government budget with more direct control on
management without relying on the government systems.9

2.1.2 Project Preparation. GOA prepared the National Avian Influenza and Influenza
Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan (ANIPPRP) in response to the first HPAI
outbreak in Nangarhar province in February 2006. The draft action plan developed in
March 2006 was appraised by the Bank in November 2006, and the project was approved
in January 2007. 10 Based on the assessment of the weak existing capacity, technical
support from the UN partners (FAO, WHO and UNICEF) was considered essential for
successful implementation. However, the extent of the lack of capacity became fully
apparent later during implementation.




7
  Subsequent laboratory tests revealed that the case was a low pathogenic AI.
8
  This was done in accordance with the New Operation Memo, "Investment Lending Reform: Cancellation
and Recommitment of IDA Resources", dated October 27, 2009.
9
  This is evident from the fact that several activities envisaged under the Bank supported project were
successfully completed under other programs, e.g., the USAID Cross Border Project, EUs' AHDP, WHO's
direct support to MOPH, which were implemented outside the government system.
10
   The AHIF grant was approved in December 2006.


                                                   6
2.1.3 Project Design. The Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human
Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI) was processed in late 2005 and endorsed
by the Bank's Board on January 12, 2006 as a horizontal adaptable program loan (APL)
with an envelope of $500 million. The Bank team had extensive discussions with the
above key stakeholders in Afghanistan, and it was agreed that the project structure should
follow the standard GPAI template, including both short and long term activities, which
Afghanistan required. The country had minimal capacity to meet the necessary elements
of an effective response to avian flu outbreaks, including the ability to survey and report
suspected cases, confirm the diagnosis in the laboratory, contain outbreaks in animals and
humans, and properly care for infected individuals. However, the full use of the GPAI
template resulted in a highly complex and rather ambitious project for a conflict-affected
country such as Afghanistan. There were a number of inter-dependent and time sensitive
sub-components, and it was assumed that essential technical support would be provided
by contracted UN partners11. The lack of adequate staff in the implementing agencies
and the need for full time international inputs at the Implementation Support Team (IST)
for project management and implementation was not fully recognized.

2.1.4 Government Commitment. While there was initially a high level of ownership
and commitment by the GOA and the implementing ministries12 -mainly because of the
outbreaks in 2006 and 2007-, this commitment dwindled down during implementation
when there were no outbreaks. A sense of complacency developed as evidenced by long
delays in recruiting key staff and completing key actions agreed during Bank supervision
missions. For example, during the entire project period the National Avian Influenza
Committee (NAIC) ­the apex body in the country for AI that was supposed to be the
symbol of political will and support- did not convene a formal meeting even once despite
repeated requests by Bank missions. This resulted in considerably diminished impact of
the project on improving coordination among partners and on collaboration between
animal and human health services. This could have been a window to effectively engage
the MAIL technical department in the project implementation, including development of
animal health surveillance system, and facilitate collaboration between two sectors such
as sharing surveillance information.

2.1.5 Assessment of Risks. At appraisal, a wide range of risks were considered.
However, there was no mention of the possible impact of the security situation in the
technical annex although it was evident that the project would be operating in the Eastern
and Southern provinces bordering Pakistan13. Deteriorating security did have an adverse
impact on project performance. Low capacity of the implementing ministries was
identified as a risk but the mitigation measures in the project design were not robust
enough. It was assumed that UN partners would provide technical assistance to IST



11
   This assumption proved to be only partly right given the delays and failure in concluding contracts with
the UN agencies.
12
   MOPH, in particular, considered the project as an opportunity to build overall sustainable infrastructure
to improve Afghanistan's capacity for disease monitoring and investigation.
13
   The provinces bordering Pakistan are considered to be at higher risk of AI transmission and at the same
time at higher security risk.


                                                      7
under the National Avian Influenza Committee (NAIC) to offset this risk. However, the
extent of the low capacity was underestimated and it was not recognized that a direct role
of international specialists in project management was needed rather than just providing
technical assistance. Moreover, the difficulties in contracting with UN agencies using the
standard form of Bank contract were not foreseen. During implementation, a contract
materialized with FAO only when 50% of the project life had already elapsed. However,
FAO provided technical assistance only and had no role in overall project management.

2.1.6 Quality at Entry. Considering the low capacity of the implementing agencies14
and the emergency nature of the operation, the project scope and design was overly
complex and ambitious for a post-conflict country such as Afghanistan. Furthermore, the
project was not ready for implementation at the time of approval 15.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Overall project performance remained unsatisfactory during most of the
implementation period. Key project staffing was not completed until November 200916
and overall progress and disbursements remained very slow. This is largely attributed to
(i) lack of ownership and commitment by the two implementing ministries partly as result
of the absence of AI outbreaks; (ii) failure to recruit key staff of required qualifications
and experience; and (iii) lack of adequate staff in the IST and oversight arrangements in
MAIL and MOPH. Ownership and commitment by MAIL improved during the last nine
months 17 and project performance improved to some extent. At project closing, the
implementation performance was assessed as "moderately unsatisfactory".

Component A: Animal Health

2.2.2 The overall implementation of this component, which represented almost 50
percent of the total project cost, was "moderately unsatisfactory". The component
disbursed less than 20 percent of the funds allocated, primarily because of substantial
delays in procurement and implementation. This largely owes to (i) the substantial delay
in appointing key staff to IST; and (ii) the 15-month delay in contracting FAO. However,
as a result of the project, the veterinary and poultry sector legislation and regulations
were revised, and the manuals and a contingency plan were drafted under the project on
outbreak management and containment procedures. The component also trained 32


14
   MAIL had not implemented a Bank assisted operations since the USSR invasion in 1979.
15
   While there were no conditions of effectiveness, there were six of those on disbursement, which indicates
that the project was not ready for implementation. These conditions were (a) satisfactory preparation of a
Financial Management Manual, (b) staffing of key positions at IST, and (c) preparation of operation
manuals.
16
   The position of Project Coordinator remained vacant for most of the project period and was still vacant
when the project closed. Similarly, the project did not have a Procurement Specialist for more than half of
the project period; and an international M&E specialist was not recruited until November 2009 (four
months prior to the project closure).
17
   During 2009, the new management in MAIL started a restructuring and change management process and
established a Program Implementation and Coordination Unit, which provided oversight for the project.


                                                     8
veterinarians and zonal coordinators to set up a total of eight emergency response teams
(ERTs) in Afghanistan, i.e., one ERT per zonal office, in disease detection, diagnoses and
reporting. Limited support for diagnostic capability and surveillance was provided by the
project, while most of such support was given by the FAO/USAID Cross Border Project
(CBP) and the EC financed Animal Health Development Project (AHDP).

2.2.3 Sub-component A.1 Strengthening HPAI Control and Outbreak
Containment Capacity. The key manuals and contingency plan were prepared by FAO,
and eight zone ERTs (a total of 32 veterinarians and coordinators) were trained in
surveillance, outbreak management and containment procedures. In response to an
outbreak of AI in Pakistan in 2008/9, the project vaccinated 380,000 poultry mainly on
commercial farms in four border provinces in May 2009. With no further threats or other
indications of AI incursion through wild birds, Afghanistan did not continue with
vaccination, thus, its effectiveness monitoring was not required. However, the planned
surveillance, which was the main thrust of the component, was not effectively
implemented, and the desktop and field simulation exercises could not be carried out
before project closing. This resulted from the overall implementation delays, but also
because the Veterinary Field Units (VFUs), which would undertake the surveillance,
were not contracted during the project implementation due to weak management and
oversight. There also was a long delay in procurement, custom clearance, registration of
vehicles, which prevented effective work. The vehicles arrived in Kabul only three
months prior to the project closure, while the motorcycles did not arrive during the
project at all.

2.2.4 Sub-component A.2 Human Safety Assurance. Because of 15-month delay in
contracting FAO, only training of trainers (ToT) was provided; training of field
veterinarians, staff and farmers was not carried out before the project closure. The
component did not procure personal protective equipments (PPEs); however, these were
not needed as 40,000 sets were supplied by other programs. Approximately, 80 PPEs
were pre-positioned in each of the eight zonal offices.

2.2.5 Sub-component A.3 Strengthening HPAI Clinical and Laboratory Diagnosis
and Surveillance for Rapid and Effective Outbreak Detection and Containment
Capacity. Improvements to the animal health information system, which would
streamline two AHI systems separately developed by two donors, were not done.
Additionally, deteriorating security prevented the preparation of guidelines and manuals
on comprehensive disease investigation and biosecurity improvement in the rural
commercial and semi-commercial poultry sectors. The intended surveillance of wild
birds was not done, and the equipments to capture wild birds were not procured. This,
however, was not a critical omission, as the risk of AI incursion through the medium of
water fowl or wild birds has been assessed as minimal.

2.2.6 The project supplied the Central Veterinary Laboratory (CVL) with AI diagnostic
antigen, antibody, protective equipments and Rapid Test Kits, reagents, and FAO trained
the CVL's staff in laboratory procedures under its contract. Other important support was




                                            9
also provided by the EC financed Animal Health Development Project (AHDP),
including consumables and reagents that are required for sample processing.

2.2.7 Sub-component A.4 Improving the Capacity of Poultry Stakeholders to
Adopt Appropriate Measures to Counter HPAI Presence. The component could not
implement the planned surveillance activities, because: (i) IST did not have
epidemiological capacity to design the community-based animal disease surveillance
program; (ii) the Veterinary Field Units (VFUs) were not contracted by MAIL to perform
surveillance; and (iii) women para-veterinarians were not trained in community-based
surveillance and farm biosecurity. The last activity was to be supported under the FAO
contract but delayed start of the contract ruled this out.

2.2.8 Sub-component A.5 Compensation Facilities. The compensation procedures
and manuals for the disbursement of funds were established, and the rates of
compensation prepared and approved by the National Avian Influenza Committee
(NAIC). In addition, a process was also established whereby the speedy and efficient
release of Government funds to the field in the event of outbreak emergencies could be
affected. MOF support was instrumental in achieving this.

2.2.9 Sub-component A.6 Technical Assistance ­ International Consultants.
Notwithstanding the contracting delay, FAO fulfilled most of the important obligations
under its contract and made the substantial contribution to enhancing MAIL's
preparedness to deal with an HPAI outbreak. The five international technical advisers
produced almost all of the positive outcomes for the component. The tasks assigned to
two advisers remained incomplete: (i) developing the participatory disease surveillance
(PDS); and (ii) preparing manuals on poultry farm biosecurity and providing training.

2.2.10 There was a substantial delay in hiring international consultants at IST to provide
essential handholding support to key national positions, including the coordinators for the
overall project, M&E, and the three key components.

2.2.11 Sub-component A.7 Waste Management and Sanitation. A national plan,
standard guidelines and an operational manual for HPAI related waste management were
prepared. The contingency plan contains the guidelines for disposal of HPAI-related
waste, laboratory waste, contaminated materials and culled birds. The project also
provided equipment and supplies to support disposal of laboratory waste and culled birds.

2.2.12 Factors affecting the implementation of Component A were as follows:

(a)    Technical assistance from FAO made a substantial contribution in enhancing
MAIL's preparedness for HPAI outbreak, including: (i) revision of the veterinary and
poultry sector legislation and regulations; (ii) preparation of manuals and contingency
plan on outbreak management and containment procedures; and (iii) training of 32 ERT
members in eight zonal offices in disease detection, diagnoses and reporting. The FAO




                                            10
contract was signed when 50% of the project life had elapsed18. This was caused by the
delay in procurement staffing and turnover at IST, combined with FAO's HQ
administration of the contract instead of delegation to the FAO Kabul office.

(b)     Surveillance program not implemented. The delay in FAO contract set back the
development of manuals and other sequenced activities, including training for
veterinarians and women para-vets in surveillance. While ERTs were trained as trainers,
VFUs were not contracted by IST to deliver training at the provincial level. The
procurement of transportation for the zonal offices also delayed, and the vehicles were
made available only at the end of the project.

(c)     Implementation arrangement. MAIL's General Directorate of Animal Health and
Production (GDAHP) is responsible for all animal health matters in Afghanistan.
However, GDAHP did not provide the leadership and technical input to IST, particularly,
in developing a surveillance program19. IST was also subordinate to the National AI
Secretariat under the General Department for Policy and Planning, rather than directly to
MAIL. While this arrangement was to facilitate coordination among relevant ministries,
it did not effectively relate IST with GDAHP.

(d)     Technical assistance by international consultants. The project was designed to
have international advisors to support key national positions, including coordinators for
overall project and three components. Although it was felt that FAO would complement
these functions, necessary handholding support was not provided, which caused the delay
in overall project implementation20.

Component B: Human Health

2.2.13 The overall implementation of the component B (which represents about 25% of
the total project cost) was also "moderately unsatisfactory", because of a significant delay
in implementation progress. WHO was never contracted, because of their disagreement
with the Bank's contractual clauses. The component disbursed only 25% of its
commitment, largely due to availability of resources from other donors, which supported
the implementation of the key project activities directly, i.e., outside the government
budget without relying on the government systems. These include: (i) functioning
sentinel surveillance system for detection and reporting of influenza and other diseases;
(ii) WHO-certified national diagnostic laboratory capable of confirming human influenza
infections; (iii) rapid response teams to investigate cases and control disease outbreaks;
(iv) stores of personal protective equipment and antiviral medication; and (v) guidelines
for influenza surveillance, case management and pandemic response. With project



18
   During the procurement process, considerable time was spent to reach agreement on the procurement
audit and fraud and corruption clauses in the Bank standard contract form.
19
   As noted earlier, GDAHP is one of the weakest departments in MAIL and is now undergoing major
restructuring.
20
   Although the CTA of the USAID/FAO Cross Border Project was also involved in the Project, he did not
have an overall management role in the contract.


                                                  11
financing, the component (a) trained more than 4,000 health care workers in influenza
case management, including identification, diagnosis, treatment, and personal protective
measures; (b) procured Tamiflu, PPE kits and rapid diagnostic kits; (c) strengthened
working relationship on zoonotic diseases between the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) and their veterinary counterparts in MAIL; and (d) procured and administered
3,000 seasonal influenza vaccine to rapid response teams and at-risk healthcare workers.

2.2.14 Sub-component B.1 Enhancing Public Health Program Planning and
Coordination. The command and control unit was initially set up within MOPH.
However, the Afghanistan Public Health Institute (APHI) was established in late 2006,
and the coordination of infectious disease emergencies, including HPAI and other
infectious diseases, was shifted to APHI. A full time HPAI coordinator was recruited for
the project at APHI; however, he was also given other responsibilities and could not
devote his time to the project. At a request of MOPH, a deputy coordinator position was
later created and filled, which did not do much to accelerate the implementation.
Meanwhile, the protocols and guidelines for disease surveillance, response and case
management were eventually developed through WHO's in-kind assistance,
incorporating MOPH experiences during HPAI outbreaks in animals in 2006 and 2007.
A pandemic plan, including social distancing measures, was developed with support from
other donors and endorsed in 2009. Surge capacity assessments were conducted by the
Management Sciences for Health (MSH) in 11 provinces. Simulation exercises were
never undertaken; however, the system was tested during the H1N1 outbreaks. Several
key aspects of pandemic preparedness, such as wide-scale in-patient care, are, however,
yet to be tested.

2.2.15 Approximately, 4,200 healthcare workers received training on HPAI case
management. This is, however, only 50% of the targeted 9,000 workers, reportedly
partly due to the low rate of daily subsistence allowance (DSA) approved by the Ministry
of Finance. In mitigating low DSA rate impacting the training outreach, the training was
originally designed to be implemented by NGOs. However, during the project
implementation, MOPH changed the training to be delivered by APHI.

2.2.16 Sub-component B.2 Strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance
System. A network of over 180 sentinel sites was developed, which supports APHI's
Disease Early Warning System (DEWS). The project supported the establishment of this
network through hiring eight regional influenza epidemiology coordinators to coordinate
flu surveillance efforts and outbreak response, and two IT consultants. Also, with
resources from other donors, a total of 42 rapid response teams (RRTs) were established,
with one per province and one back-up per region, and trained in field investigation and
specimen collection. The RRTs played a key role in H1N1 response. The project
procured rapid influenza diagnostics kits to be used by RRTs. The project also supplied
10 vehicles to support surveillance and investigation activities, including transport of
specimens for diagnostic testing.

2.2.17 Sub-component B.3 Strengthening the Health Care System Response
Capacity. The component developed only one isolation facility in Kabul, instead of a



                                          12
planned network of four regional referral centers. The construction of the facility was not
completed, due to delays in procurement processes and design work. There was
significant donor support for procurement of PPEs, antivirals and vaccines, including a
total of 70,000 PPEs pre-positioned in all 34 provinces and 44,000 doses of seasonal
influenza vaccine. The component also procured 4,000 sets of PPEs, 7,000 treatment
courses of oseltamivir and 3,000 doses of seasonal flu vaccines. To store the antiviral
medications and vaccines at appropriate conditions, the component supported the
renovation of MOPH warehouse.

2.2.18 Factors affecting the implementation of Component B were as follows:

(a)    Resources from other donors. The component disbursed only 25% of its
commitment, because of the availability of resources from other donors, e.g., USAID and
WHO, including in-kind contributions. Key project activities were undertaken by these
resources with direct implementation by the donors outside the government system.

(b)    Technical assistance from WHO. WHO contract was never signed, due to their
disagreement with the certain contractual clauses that provides the Bank with the right to
audit. There were a number of other issues in the standard contract form that WHO
disagreed with (e.g., amount of advance and requirement for submission of CVs of
assigned personnel) but resolved subsequently. As a result of the prolonged negotiation,
most of the activities planned under this contract were undertaken through WHO's in-
kind contribution or financing from other donors.

(c)     MOPH ownership. The initial high level interest in the project was reduced at
MOPH. A full time avian influenza coordinator was essential to implement the complex
project; however, the coordinator was also given other responsibilities at APHI and could
not devote full time to the project. The hiring of a deputy coordinator did not improve
the pace of project implementation.

(d)     Limited experience of APHI with Bank processes and lack of coordinating with
other departments within MOPH. APHI was being established by MOPH during the
appraisal. As this was their first Bank-financed project, the delay in implementation,
procurement and staffing (in particular, procurement officer) was largely due to their
unfamiliarity with the Bank processes and procedures. However, lack of experience
should not have been a problem had the APHI used existing capacity within MOPH that
has rich experience in implementing Bank-financed projects.

Component C: Communication and Public Awareness

2.2.19 The overall implementation of Component C (which represents about 11% of the
total project cost) was "satisfactory". While the component disbursed less than 10% of
the total allocation21, IST was closely involved in the activities financed by UNICEF.


21
 Salaries of women ERTs were costed under the project management (Component D), and transportation
was procured under the animal health component.


                                                13
Moreover, the component successfully helped to maintain the high level of AI awareness
(at 94.5% in Kabul and Nangarhar)22, although there was no avian flu outbreak since
2007. The school awareness campaign, in particular, proved effective as there was a
significant increase in the awareness among school aged children, from 69.3% to 93%.
Other achievements include: (i) a national communication strategy and action plan for
AI were developed; (ii) communication manuals and training modules were completed
and delivered through the Training of Trainer (ToT); (iii) an interministerial
communication working group was established by MOPH, which facilitated community
outreach through various channels; (iv) approximately 7.4 million people in urban areas
were reached out across the country23, including 2 million by women communication
emergency response teams (ERTs) through face to face training24; and (v) a total of more
than 1,700 veterinarians, poultry farmers and media managers were trained on HPAI
prevention and control.

2.2.20 The national communication strategy also included a pandemic communication
plan in four phases. This was field tested during the H1N1 outbreak in Afghanistan by
MOPH with assistance from UNICEF and WHO. Intensive flu prevention campaign was
launched through media, including targeted communication to hajis (pilgrims) to Makkah
in collaboration with the Ministry of Religious Affairs (MORA).

2.2.21 Sub-component C.1. Extensive Communication. Social media outreach
through TV and radio programs and the KAP survey in July 2007 were financed and
undertaken by UNICEF. The component worked closely with the Ministry of Rural
Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) to mobilize the provincial and district
coordinators for the National Solidarity Project (NSP) as trainers in high risk provinces to
deliver awareness training at the community level. Likewise, in partnership with the
Ministry of Education (MOE), teachers were mobilized as trainers in Kabul. In
facilitating awareness through media, 45 media managers and 30 representatives from the
Ministry of Information and Culture (MOIC) were also trained. The component,
however, did not carry out the planned advocacy activities to secure high-level political
support on the project, which might have helped in maintaining the GOA interest in the
project. A mechanism for feedback from communities was not established; however, the
KAP survey provided adequate feedback in developing the communication strategy and
plan.

2.2.22 Sub-component C.2. Intensive Communication. Six women communication
emergency response teams (ERTs) were established at the zonal offices and 30 women




22
   As per the beneficiary survey in July 2010.
23
   This is achieved largely by the media outreach. Approximately, 24% of the population resides in urban
areas in Afghanistan with access to TV and/or radio (http://devdata.worldbank.org/AAG/afg_aag.pdf).
24
   The direct outreach by women ERTs was more than 410,000 individuals, which enabled indirect
outreach at household level, totaling approximately 2 million people.


                                                   14
were trained on HPAI prevention and control.25 The women ERTs delivered face to face
training at schools and other institutions, and house to house visits.

2.2.23 Factors affecting the implementation of Component C were as follows:

(a)      Interministerial cooperation. There was good inter-ministerial cooperation to
facilitate communication outreach, and a communication working group was established
with MOPH's leadership, in which UNICEF and WHO also participated. This group
played a key role during the H1N1 response.

(b)     Only one communication ERT per zone. In the cultural and social context of
Afghanistan, women communication ERTs provided gender sensitive outreach, in
particular, to women poultry owners. However, their outreach was rather modest partly
due to the project design and lack of transport. Each ERT had to cover four to five
provinces, which was unrealistic considering the security situation and lack of rural
access in Afghanistan.

(c)     Security. The site selection for ERTs to deliver training was driven by security.
Efforts were made by the ERTs to deliver training at clinics or public gatherings to
ensure outreach to rural women poultry holders. However, the women ERTs were not
able to provide training where the risk could have been the highest (e.g., the border areas).

(d)     Delay in procurement of transportation. The outreach activities planned by
women ERTs were largely affected by the late arrival of vehicles in Kabul - three months
prior to the project closure.

Component D: Project Management

2.2.24 The overall implementation of Component D (which represents about 11% of the
total project cost) was "moderately unsatisfactory".

2.2.25 Sub-component D.1 Strengthening the National Policy and Regulatory
Environment. Under the FAO contract, the veterinary and poultry sector legislation and
regulations were revised and discussed in workshops. The way forward for presenting
this to the parliament was also identified.

2.2.26 Sub-component D.2 Project Coordination. The National Avian Influenza
Committee (NAIC) was to facilitate overall project coordination, including MAIL and
MOPH. NAIC, however, did not formally convene even once during the project period,
among other reasons, because of lack of oversight arrangements in MAIL and pro-
activity by IST in formulating an agenda for its consideration.

2.2.27. Factors affecting the implementation of Component D were as follows:


25
  It was originally planned to hire six women for each of eight zonal offices; however, only five were
employed respectively for the six offices.


                                                    15
(a)     No avian flu outbreak. There was no HPAI outbreak during the project
implementation, which reduced the level of ownership and interest by MAIL and MOPH
in the overall project implementation.

(b)    Coordination between MAIL and MOPH. Except for the communication
component where there was close coordination, overall coordination between MAIL and
MOPH remained weak mainly because of the absence of an overall project coordinator
and lack of higher level commitment26. For example, updating of procurement plans was
always delayed as MAIL and MOPH counter-parts worked separately without
considering possibilities of joint procurement of certain equipment (e.g., PPEs). Vehicles
were procured jointly but disagreement at the evaluation stage resulted in a long delay.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design: During the project preparation, a result framework was designed,
including key project indicators, which had to be in place to avail GPAI resources. IST
was to develop a comprehensive M&E system in the first year of the project and compile
data collected from eight zone offices. The design was adequate for an emergency
project.

2.3.2 Implementation: A Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) survey was
conducted by UNICEF (with own financing) in June 2007, which set the baseline of the
key PDO indicator. M&E for animal health component 27 , however, remained weak
throughout the project, in particular, due to the delay in staffing at IST as well as zonal
offices. The M&E improved towards the end of the project and the project was able to
report on the project indicators and maintain information on communication outreach
from zone offices.

2.3.3 Utilization: The data collected were used for MAIL's quarterly progress report.
A third party evaluation of the primary and hospital sectors is being undertaken by the
John Hopkins University, including a survey of health facilities and hospitals.28

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Environmental and Social Safeguards: An Environment Management Plan
(EMP) was prepared to a satisfactory standard, translated in Dari and Pashtu with a
summary disseminated in project areas as part of the communication component
awareness activities. Waste Management guidelines were also prepared but these were


26
   This situation improved towards the end of the project after the establishment of PICU and appointment
of an international adviser who filled in the gap in the absence of a project coordinator.
27
   For the human health component, M&E was covered by the John Hopkins University under an
arrangement with MOPH.
28
   This is on-going with financing from another Bank-supported project, i.e., Strengthening of Health
Activities for the Rural Poor Project.


                                                   16
not put to a practical test as there was no HPAI outbreak during project implementation.
Social/gender considerations were included in the compensation procedures which
required payment of compensation directly to women poultry owners rather than through
male family members. Women, particularly girls' schools were targeted in the awareness
campaigns.

2.4.2 Fiduciary Safeguards: After three decades of conflict, the GOA is facing a
daunting challenge to rebuild its public administration to effectively manage and utilize
public resources, including the large inflow of development aid. Since the Bank Group's
re-engagement in Afghanistan, one of the priority areas of the Bank's assistance strategy
to Afghanistan has been providing support for building the capacity of the state and its
accountability to its citizens for provision of basic services. The Bank has played an
instrumental role in helping the Government establish the basic legal framework
underlying the public financial management (PFM) and public procurement systems.
Significant progress has been made in establishing a functioning public financial
management system under the direction of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Project
accounting, payments, financial statements and responsibility for submission of audited
financial statements are centralized within the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
government-wide PFM systems, which are used for all projects financed by IDA and
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), were assessed with the Public
Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA), Public Financial Management
performance measurement framework in 2005 and at the end of 2007, and found to be
better than the average of low-income countries, particularly on the accounting, recording
and reporting dimensions.

2.4.3 Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until
closure were maintained at the Ministry of Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU).
Record of project's disbursements was also maintained at the line ministries (MAIL and
MoPH). Records under AHICP, like other emergency projects in Afghanistan, were
maintained at the SDU using the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
(AFMIS) for all projects and line ministries' financial transactions, which was financed
under this project. Supporting documents were maintained satisfactorily for all payments.
There was good coordination between MAIL and MoPH with respect to the FM functions,
and MAIL has been satisfactorily maintaining consolidated books of accounts for the
project.

2.4.4 Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally by the MOF
(SDU). An assessment of the process reveals that this has been managed appropriately
since the project began. Financial reporting was poor initially: FMRs did not contain all
required information but were prepared regularly; monthly financial reports were not
prepared regularly. However, financial reporting improved considerably over time.
Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly, though later than the
mandated submission deadline.

2.4.5 The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was unqualified
(clean) for both SY1386 (IDA H267) and SY1387 (IDA H267 & TF 57769). The



                                           17
SY1387 audit reports became due on Sep 22, 2009; but were submitted late on December
20, 2009 for IDA H267 and December 21, 2009 for TF 57769. The issues raised in the
SY1386 and SY1387 audit reports have been responded to satisfactorily.

2.4.6 Given that the financial management systems in place were weak when the
project became effective, it could be concluded that FM capacity has been built steadily
over the life of the project.

2.4.7 A financial management review was done in May 2010, which included
transaction review of the project's expenditures that were paid up to April 30, 2010. The
key findings from this review are presented below:

   (a) Ineligible expenditures of US$ 14,566.43 paid from IDA H267 ($3,996.66) and
       TF 57769 ($10,569.77), being penalty paid on 17 vehicles procured by MAIL
   (b) Customs duty (on procurement of 17 vehicles, MAIL) and taxes (on procurement
       of 17 vehicles and on salaries of one consultant, MAIL) amounting to
       US$113,056.40 paid from TF 57769 instead of IDA H267.

2.4.8 Procurement: The IST was without a procurement specialist for more than half
of its life. This was one of the major factors that affected overall implementation
progress, including contracting with UN partners on Single Source basis, as set out in the
GPAI framework, and resulted in low disbursements. While MAIL concluded the FAO
contract with significant delay, MOPH could not enter into a contract with WHO,
although IDA had cleared the Request for Proposal (RFP) in early 2009. There was no
coordination between MAIL and MOPH in procurement activities. For example, MOPH
and MAIL had serious differences in the bid evaluation for vehicles, which was done
jointly by the two ministries. Although procurement performance improved towards the
end of the project after a good procurement specialist was finally recruited, it was too late
to complete the remaining procurement before project closing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation

2.5.1 While there was no HPAI outbreak in animals or humans during the project
implementation, the risk of such outbreaks and other emerging or re-emerging zoonotic
diseases cannot be ruled out. There, thus, is a need to maintain preparedness and the
capacity to respond to potential outbreaks and continue with key activities such as
surveillance and communication. This would require retaining trained veterinarians and
healthcare workers in AI emergency response.

2.5.2 Animal Health: Outputs from the FAO contract have contributed significantly to
the ability of MAIL to deal with avian flu outbreaks as well as other livestock diseases.
FAO continues to support surveillance activities through the USAID financed Cross-
Border Project (CBP) in the high risk areas, including those locations where outbreaks
occurred in 2006 and 2007. Additionally, the Bank-financed on-going Horticulture and
Livestock Project (HLP) is to implement the sanitary mandate, whereby the General
Directorate of Animal Health Production (GDAHP) is to contract VFUs/NGOs for



                                             18
surveillance activities. GDAHP could mobilize trained ERT members in the eight zonal
offices in surveillance locations where there are no VFUs or NGOs present, and where
the CBP is not conducting surveillance already.

2.5.3 Several follow-up activities remain, which if done would strengthen MAIL's
preparedness for future outbreaks in avian flu or other zoonoses. These include: (i)
finalizing the draft contingency plan and testing it through desktop and field simulation
exercises; (ii) harmonizing the livestock disease data management systems, so as to
improve the capability of the Epidemiology Unit being developed at MAIL; (iii) moving
forward with next steps in presenting to the parliament revised draft veterinary and
poultry sector law; and (iv) strengthening the monitoring program under other ongoing
projects/programs and using similar performance indictors as in this project.

2.5.4 Human Health: There are several follow-up activities which would strengthen
MOPH's preparedness for any future outbreaks of influenza or other infectious diseases
(including notably those of animal origin): (i) completing the construction of isolation
facilities; (ii) surge capacity; (iii) maintaining surveillance, investigation and lab
capacity; and (iv) testing the contingency plan/system.

2.5.5 Communication: The project was able to set up a communication response
mechanism, which could be mobilized in case of an outbreak of HPAI or other zoonoses.
The inter-ministerial communication working group facilitated by MOPH would function
as a platform of communication activities. It would be highly desirable for this group to
be also involved in future monitoring, including follow up KAP surveys.

2.5.6 SAR Regional Training Program in Epidemiology and Biosecurity is a
regional response in operationalizing the "one health" concept29. At an estimated total
cost of US$ 7.7 million30, the program is to: (i) build in-country epidemiology capacity
in seven countries in South Asia through providing on-line training at master's level to a
total of 70 veterinarians and medical doctors; and (ii) strengthen existing epidemiology
institutions in these countries to establish centers of excellence in epidemiology or "one
health" hubs and their regional network. From Afghanistan, three medical doctors are
participating in the training and are expected to play a key role in establishing the centers
of excellence. The regional program is implemented by the Massey University of New
Zealand and financed by the Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF).




29
   The "One World, One Health" concept establishes a more interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral approach
to preventing epidemic or epizootic disease and for maintaining ecosystem integrity.
http://www.undg.org/docs/9464/OWOH_14Oct08.pdf
30
   The phase 1 proposal (on-line training) was approved in January 2010 (US$ 3.84 million), while the
phase 2 proposal (establishment of centers of excellence) was submitted to AHIF in May 2010 (US$ 3.86
million).


                                                   19
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The project objectives remained valid throughout project implementation. In
response to H1N1 outbreaks in October 2009, the PDO was clarified to allow support for
other zoonoses, in addition to avian influenza. MOPH utilized the capacity developed by
the project, including the pandemic plan, surveillance and communication activities. The
PDO remains consistent with GOA's National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic
Preparedness and Response Plan (ANIPPRP).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project development objectives were partially achieved, with investment
under the project as well as resources under other complementary programs supported by
other donors. As a result, Afghanistan had improved its preparedness to respond to
outbreaks of HPAI or other zoonotic or infectious diseases. However, this capacity is yet
to be fully tested as there was no HPAI outbreak during the project implementation.

3.2.2 Evidence of widespread adoption of recommended practices for the control
and eradication of HPAI among poultry producers, distributors, and retail vendors.
Despite the absence of HPAI outbreaks since 2007, the project sustained the AI
awareness and adoption of recommended practices among the target populations. The
beneficiary survey conducted in July 2010 indicates that there was no significant change
in the adoption of the five safe practices31, i.e., 73.1%% at baseline and 70.3% at the
survey, as a result of the various communication and training activities.

3.2.3 Evidence of improved effectiveness of participating animal and human
health services in responding to the risk of an HPAI outbreak. The project enhanced
MAIL's effectiveness through: (i) revising the veterinary and poultry sector legislation
and regulations; (ii) preparing manuals and the contingency plan for managing outbreaks,
and establishing containment procedures; (iii) building capacity for disease detection,
diagnoses and reporting; and (iv) training a number of government staff in detection and
response in the eight zonal offices. Similarly, the project contributed to building
MOPH's response capacity through training more than 4,000 health care workers in case
management. This capacity was used during the H1N1 outbreak in November 2009.
However, the low disbursements at the end of the project indicate that an opportunity was
partly lost to establish more referral centers and increase surge capacity.




31
  The five practices are: (a) keeping species separate, (b) keeping sick birds separate, (c) disinfecting
regularly, (d) quarantine new birds, and (e) report sick birds to veterinarians.


                                                      20
3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 There is a broad agreement that containing HPAI at source reduces the risk of a
human pandemic and would help to mitigate related socio-economic impacts. The project,
together with other complementary programs, enhanced preparedness of MAIL and
MOPH in responding to outbreaks of HPAI and other emerging or re-emerging zoonotic
or infectious diseases. Institutional mechanisms were set up, including guidelines and
protocols in handling HPAI outbreak, which were partly field tested during H1N1
outbreak. Because of low capacity and slow progress in procurement, several project
activities were implemented under other programs. Since there was no AI outbreak
during the project, an economic analysis at the ICR stage was not warranted as it would
have repeated a similar analysis as was done at appraisal, which showed a high return
(ERR ranging from 15 percent to 86 percent depending on the assumed scenarios).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.4.1 The project partially achieved its development objectives with several activities
originally envisaged under the project actually implemented by other programs. This is
evident from the updated Results Framework. As a result of the project, Afghanistan has
improved preparedness in HPAI outbreak control and management. The project could
not implement several key activities, including development of an effective and
comprehensive surveillance system (animal health), desktop and field simulation
exercises in both animal and human health components, and strengthening/establishment
of isolation and referral facilities.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The KAP study undertaken in July 2007 found that the women backyard poultry
owners were likely the poorest of poor and most difficult to reach out as they do not have
access to media or participate in public gathering. The contingency plan and institutional
mechanisms developed by the project were to prevent these women from loss of their
livelihoods. In the social and cultural context of Afghanistan, the project was designed to
train women communication emergency response teams (ERTs) to raise general
awareness on avian flu through house to house visits. The women communication ERTs
reached out to more than 410,000 individuals. As a result of these activities combined
with the media campaign, there was no significant gender difference observed in AI
awareness in the beneficiary survey: 94.3% of women were aware of AI, while it was
96.7% for men. The project was also designed to train women para-veterinarians in
community based surveillance; however, due to delay in procurement of FAO and no
contracting arrangement with VFUs, this sub-component was not implemented.




                                            21
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The project, together with the resources from other donors, strengthened the
capacities of both MAIL and MOPH in responding to potential outbreaks in avian
influenza or other infectious diseases. In this regard, MOPH has a better-developed
capacity for surveillance, diagnosis and case management, including protocols and
guidelines. MAIL has manuals and guidelines in outbreak control and containment, and
its Central Veterinary Laboratory (CVL) has a stronger diagnostic capability.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 The absence of any AI outbreaks during the project life resulted in low ownership
and commitment of implementing ministries. On the other hand, a positive outcome was
that the capacity created for AI response helped to respond to the H1N1 outbreak in late
2009. The human health contingency plan was partly field tested with success.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 The key findings of the beneficiary survey conducted in July 2010 are as follows
(see the Annex 3 for details):

     General awareness of AI remained as high as 94.5%32 (the baseline was 98.4% for
     Kabul and Nangarhar, where the beneficiary survey was fielded). There was a
     significant increase in awareness among school aged children from 69.3% to 93%. In
     Kabul, 20% of children indicated schools as a source of information, where the
     communication campaign was delivered by teachers as well as women
     communication ERTs.
     85% of health worker interviewed were provided with technical training by MOPH.
     There is a high level of awareness in safety practice, such as the use of protective
     equipments (95%); however, only 45% responded to isolate the patient.
     Among the poultry holders, distributors and retail vendors, two safe handling
     practices were more likely adopted, i.e., keeping species separate (from 75.9% to
     96.5%) and disinfecting regularly (54% to 64.2%). They continue to report sick birds
     to veterinarians (from 58.6% to 54.8%), while they are less likely to keep sick birds
     separate (100% to 68.6%) and quarantine new birds (77% to 67.2%). Approximately
     40% of the target group responded that they would kill sick birds.33  

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High




32
   The baseline was almost 80% across five provinces, including Kabul and Nangarhar. However, these
two provinces had a higher level of awareness, i.e., 98.4%.
33
   No baseline available.


                                                 22
4.1.1 Because of low capacity in MAIL, national and international consultants were
employed to staff the IST and Zonal Offices to implement the project. Their contracts
ended at project closure, leaving little capacity other than the regular MAIL staff who
received training in various aspects of AI. It is uncertain whether the local consultants
who participated in the project would be available should an outbreak occur in the future.
However, as stated in the Section 2.5 Post-completion Operation, follow up activities
under other projects would sustain the AI response capacity. It should be noted, however,
that there is a high risk of substantial degradation in the capacity if resources are not
made available and efforts are not made to keep track of trained personnel to be able to
mobilize them for a future contingency.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 The quality at entry was weak. Firstly, as noted earlier, the adoption of GPAI
template resulted in a comprehensive project design and scope that was overly ambitious
and complex and beyond the capacity of the implementing ministries, particularly MAIL,
which had not implemented a substantial project for more than thirty years. This weak
capacity was not fully recognized at appraisal. Secondly, the project was not ready for
implementation.      Key staff was not in position, fundamental implementation
documents/procedures (e.g., operational manual, financial manual, compensation
procedures/manual, and environmental management plan) were not ready. All these
missing elements were included in the Financing Agreement (FA) as conditions of
disbursement. Thirdly, the FA and the AHITF grant agreement did not explicitly
mention that taxes were not eligible for financing under the AHIF; an amendment had to
be made later to clarify this. Finally, it was assumed that the project would enter into
contracts with UN Agencies to provide technical assistance. However, issues that arose
during the procurement process were not foreseen.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2 During supervision, the Bank team was faced with the daunting task of assisting
two weak agencies (i.e., MAIL and APHI) in implementing a complex project that was
not ready for implementation. With the absence of key staff and lack of interest by the
GDAHP, the Bank team made extraordinary efforts to assist the project in meeting the
conditions of disbursements34 and provided continuous support to the few staff available.


34
  The Bank team provided hands-on support for preparation of various manuals and working out processes
and procedures for quick transfer of funds to project sites for compensation.


                                                 23
A launch workshop was organized and outstanding issues were brought to the attention of
senior ministry officials during quarterly portfolio review meetings as well as periodic
follow up meetings. During the prolonged period when there was no procurement staff in
the IST, the Bank team made efforts to utilize procurement staff working on another
Bank-financed project. Because of lack of key staff in IST, the first formal mission could
not take place until August 2008. However, the Bank team continued to provide day-to-
day support despite lack of action on agreed actions plans. Deteriorating security,
particularly in the key project areas (eastern and southern provinces bordering Pakistan),
precluded site visits by Bank missions. The mission in November 2009 had to be aborted
because of an attack on a UN guesthouse and evacuation of all visiting mission members.
Towards the end of 2009, the project was finally fully staffed and started showing signs
of improvement. However, because of the prolonged problem status, the Bank decided
not to extend the project beyond the original closure date.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.3 The overall rating for the Bank performance is considered "moderately
unsatisfactory" reflecting the weak quality at entry and the overall outcome of the project
which is also considered moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Recipient Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4 The Government 35 performance was overall satisfactory. MOF maintained its
support for the project throughout its life and was instrumental in evolving procedures for
quick transfer of funds for compensation, allocating adequate budget for the project,
processing legal amendments and submitting a request for a partial cancellation of US$ 4
million for possible reallocation within the Afghanistan portfolio.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.5 The overall performance of MAIL and MOPH is considered moderately
unsatisfactory, due to substantial delay in implementation, procurement and staffing.
Most of the key activities agreed during the missions were not addressed in a timely
manner, particularly the 15-month delay in signing FAO contract and failure to contract
WHO. MAIL and MOPH commitment to the project dwindled down in the absence of
outbreaks.


35
     Represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)


                                                    24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.6 While the project, together with resources from the other donors, enhanced
GOA's preparedness for outbreaks of HPAI and capacity to respond to a human
pandemic (as shown in their response to H1N1 outbreak), the implementation of the
project activities was significantly delayed, and some key activities were not completed.
These included surveillance and training for animal health, construction of isolation
wards for human health, and desktop and field simulation exercises for both components.
The overall "moderately unsatisfactory" rating reflects the overall outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

       Keeping project design simple and ensuring readiness for implementation.
       While it is always a good practice to keep the project design simple and its scope
       commensurate with implementation capacity, this is critical in post-conflict
       countries where capacity is low not only within governments but also outside of
       the government. There is competition among projects/program for a limited
       number of qualified and experienced staff.

       Bank financing versus donor financing outside government budget. In
       Afghanistan, several donors execute projects directly because of weak capacity of
       implementing agencies, unlike the Bank which channels financing through the
       government budget and systems. While the Bank's approach is no doubt critical
       for long term capacity building, the direct execution approach has a comparative
       advantage in terms of timely execution. This option needs to be considered in
       designing emergency projects, where (i) timely action is critical; and (ii) co-
       financing or parallel financing by other donors to directly execute projects is a
       possibility.

       Partial cancellation to reallocate resources within the country portfolio. The
       new Bank policy that allows potential reallocation of cancelled IDA funds within
       the country provides an incentive to both governments and Bank teams to identify
       surplus funds that would remain unutilized and lapse at the end of the project.

       Partnership with UN Agencies. The experience under the project is mixed.
       Despite delay in the procurement process, key achievements under the animal
       heath component were made under the FAO contract. Similarly, although the
       project did not have formal contractual arrangements with UNICEF, there was
       fruitful cooperation in communication activities during the implementation. On
       the other hand despite prolonged efforts, the project could not contract WHO.
       When the contract was given up, it was too late to seek similar expertise for the
       human health component from other sources. This was a setback as important



                                           25
activities (e.g., desktop and field simulation) could not be completed.   Such
contractual issues need to be settled during project preparation.  




                                  26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component36
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
Animal Health                                   6.2                   1.1                 17.7
Human Health                                    3.4                   1.0                 29.4
Communications                                  1.4                   0.1                  7.1
Coordination                                    1.4                   1.6                114.3

             Total Baseline Cost               12.3                    3.7                30.9
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.5                    -                    -
Price Contingencies
                                                0.2                    -                   -
             Total Project Costs               13.0                    3.7                28.5
Front-end fee PPF                               -                      -                   -
Front-end fee IBRD                              -                      -                   -
     Total Financing Required                  13.0                    3.7                28.5


(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
Recipient                                                     0.0         0.0        0.00
IDA Grant                                                     8.0        3.0         37.9
                                                                37
Avian and Human Influenza Facility                           5.0          0.7        13.0
Total                                                        13.0         3.7        28.3




36
   Figures as of August 12, 2010. These are yet to be finalized upon the account closure, as the grace
period was extended up to September 30, 2010.
37
   This includes the compensation funds, which amounted to USD 2.4 million, which was never used with
the absence of AHI outbreak during the project implementation.




                                                  27
(ii)       Other donors
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)   millions)
UN Food and Agriculture                   Parallel
                                                         0.625          0.625      100
Organization (FAO)                        financing
                                          Parallel
USAID/FAO Cross Border Project                           0              1.5        100
                                          financing
                                          Parallel
UN World Health Organization
                                          financing
                                                         TBD38                     0
                                          Parallel
USAID (in-kind PPEs)                                     0              0.339      100
                                          financing
                                          Parallel
UNICEF                                                   0.18           0.75       100
                                          financing




38
     Technical and operational support provided to MOPH with USAID financing.
39
     Estimate as per the project Technical Annex (Procurement Arrangement)


                                                   28
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                    Title/Specialty             Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Mir Ahmad Ahmad           Operations Officer                  SASDA
Zabiullah Ahrary          Program Assistant                   SACAF
Tekabe Ayalew Belay       Sr. Economist (Health)              SASHN
Mario E. Bravo            Sr. Communications Officer          EXTOC
Abdul Mohammad Durani     E T Consultant                      SASDI
Nagaraju Duthaluri        Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Asila Wardak Jamal        Consultant                          SASDI
Zishan Karim              Rural Development Specialist        SASDA
Wazhma Khalili            Team Assistant                      SACAF
Benjamin P. Loevinsohn    Lead Public Health Specialist       AFTHE
Wahida Obaidy             Team Assistant                      SACAF
                          Sr. Financial Management
Kenneth O. Okpara                                             SARFM
                          Specialist
Norman Bentley Piccioni   Lead Rural Development Specialist   SASDA
Mohammad Arif Rasuli      Sr. Environmental Spec.              SASDI
Ghulam Dastagir Sayed     Public Health Spec.                 SASHN
Rahimullah Wardak         Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Abdul Raouf Zia           Communications Officer              SAREX
Usman Qamar               Sr. Rural Development Specialist    SASDA
Najla Sabri               Gender Specialist                   SASDA
Miki Terasawa             Communication Specialist            SASDA
Mick Nightingale          Animal Health Specialist            SASDA
Ray Web                   Animal Health Specialist            FAO-CP
Roderick Kennard          Animal Health Specialist            FAO-CP
Steve Ostroff             Human Health Specialist             FAO-CP
Altaf Iqbal               Economist                           FAO-CP
Aziz Arya                 Economist                             FAO




                                         29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                               174.46
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:                                     174.46
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                85.64
  FY08                                                               165.02
                          Total:                                     250.66




                                       30
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.       Background:

The KAP survey was conducted by UNICEF in June 2007 to obtain baseline. The survey
was conducted in five provinces across the country40 with a sample size of 60041. The
key results include that the level of awareness overall was almost 80% across five
provinces. Because of the outbreaks in 2006 and/or 2007, the awareness was particularly
high in Kabul (100%) and Nangarhar (96.7%).42 A planned follow-up KAP survey was
not carried out due to time constraints prior to the project closure. The beneficiary survey
was, thus, undertaken in July 2010 to understand the impact of the project training and
communication activities in increasing awareness and adopting better practices among
the target populations, i.e., (a) households, (b) veterinarians and health workers, and (c)
poultry producers, distributors and retail vendors.

2.       Methodology:

The beneficiary survey was conducted in Kabul and Nangahar provinces, where the
project implementation was in relative progress compared to other provinces. Face to
face interviews were conducted with a total of 300 individuals, consisting of: (a) 200
households (including school aged children and small poultry owners with less than 50
birds); (b) 50 veterinarians and health workers; and (c) large poultry farmers (with more
than 100 birds), distributors and retail vendors. The survey questioned general awareness
on avian flu, and knowledge about safety practices and behaviors.

3.       Key findings:

(a)      Awareness:

      The level of general awareness remained as high as 94.5%. The awareness was
      higher in Nangarhar (98%) than Kabul (86.7%). There was little difference between
      women (94.3%) and men (96.7%), which most likely owes to various modes of
      communications adopted by the project. There was a significant increase in the
      awareness among school aged children, from 69.3% to 93%. Through the
      communication and training activities, in particular, delivery of awareness messages
      through schools, the project successfully maintained the high level of awareness,
      despite of no outbreak since 2007.
      The sources of information on AI for adults were radio (83.1%), TV (43.1%), posters
      (31.5%), schools (25.4%), health personnel (20.8%), veterinarians, community/
      Community Development Councils (CDCs) and women communication officers


40
   Kabul (central), Nangarhar (east), Heart (west), Samangan (north) and Kandahar (south)
41
   400 households (adults and children), 100 government employees, and 100 poultry farmers and butchers
42
   Billaud, J., Leslie, T., Avian Influenza Knowledge, Attitude and Practices (KAP) Survey, Saraya Media
and Communication, June 2007


                                                   31
      (around 10% respectively). While there was a significant increase in radio (by 50%)
      and TV (by 29.9%) as a source, the reliance on community reduced substantially
      (from 57.6% to about 10%). This could be explained by the project's communication
      campaign through media meeting public demand for AI information. Another change
      which could be due to the project communication and training activities was the
      increase in Nangarhar in schools (from 0% to 32%) and veterinarians (from 1.7% to
      17%) as sources of information. The overall trend was the same for the children. In
      Kabul, about 20% of children indicated school as a source of information, however,
      there is no baseline.
      The awareness was also high among the animal and health workers (100%) and
      poultry business owners (94%). In Kabul, however, the awareness among the poultry
      business owners was 81.3% (100% in Nanganar). This could be relevant to the fact
      that 64.7% of the respondents in Nangarhar took MAIL's awareness training, while it
      was only 6.3% in Kabul.

(b)      Knowledge:

      There was 10-20% increase in the knowledge that AI affects all birds (not only
      chicken), i.e., from 32.8% to 49% in Nangarhar. Among children, 85.7% are aware
      that AI affects all birds. In Nangarhar, 84% of children are aware that AI affects
      humans (45% in Kabul).43
      For the veterinarians and health workers, there is no baseline. The beneficiary survey
      indicates that 90% of respondents participated in technical training offered by
      ministries or agencies: 85% of health workers were trained by MOPH, while 53.3%
      of veterinarians were trained by MAIL or Afghanistan Veterinarian Associations
      (AVA). More than 95% of these professionals had basic knowledge on how AI
      transmits. Among the veterinarians, the awareness of some appropriate handling
      practice appears high, e.g., use of gloves when killing suspected poultry (96.7%),
      keeping sick birds separate (80%), separating species (73.3%) and disinfecting
      regularly (73.3%). Among the health workers, there is a high level of awareness in
      use of protective equipments (95%), however, only 45% responded to isolate the
      patient.

(c)      Attitude & Practice:

      The beneficiary survey indicates that handwashing seems more practiced: after using
      latrine (from 67.2% to 100% in Nangarhar) or handling animals (12.9% to 96.6% in
      Kabul, 46.9% to 100% in Nangarhar), and before cooking (46.8% to 86.6% in Kabul,
      59.4% to 99% in Nangarhar). Among children, substantially more respondents
      appear to wash hands after handling animals (51.5% to 100%), and before eating
      (64.7% to 100%). It should also be noted that more children are likely to report sick
      birds to adults (68.6% to 84.3%).


43
  There is no corresponding baseline on the children's AI awareness. However, the KAP survey asked if
the children would expect cases of AI in their areas: 77.8% did not expect such cases, while 17.2% did
among domestic birds. One may be able to indicate that children seem more knowledgeable.


                                                  32
     Despite the absence of HPAI outbreak during the project implementation, the
     adoption of safe practice among poultry farmers, distributors and retail vendors
     remained unchanged, i.e., 73.1% at baseline and 70.3% at the beneficiary survey. As
     indicated in the table below, two safe handling practices were more likely adopted,
     i.e., keeping species separate (from 75.9% to 96.5%) and disinfecting regularly (54%
     to 64.2%). The target populations continue to report sick birds to veterinarians (from
     58.6% to 54.8%), while they are less likely to keep sick birds separate (100% to
     68.6%) and quarantine new birds (77% to 67.2%).

Table: Safe handling practices adopted by poultry owners in Kabul and Nangarhar
                                                     Baseline       Beneficiary            Difference
                                                   (June 2007)        Survey
                                                                    (July 2010)
Keep species separate                                 75.9%           96.5%                  +20.7%
Keep sick birds separate                             100.0%           68.6%                  -31.4%
Disinfect regularly                                   54.0%           64.2%                  +10.2%
Quarantine new birds                                  77.0%           67.2%                   -9.8%
Report sick birds to veterinarian                     58.6%           54.8%                   -3.9%
Average                                               73.1%           70.3%                  -2.8%

     The beneficiary survey also asked whether the target populations would kill sick birds
     (no baseline available in the KAP survey44). Approximately 40% of the respondents
     replied that they would. This is the average between larger poultry farmers (holding
     more than 100 birds), 46% of whom indicated they would, and smaller holders (less
     than 50), 32.7% of whom did so.




44
  The KAP survey did ask whether the target groups would kill the flock. This, however, could not be
compared effectively.


                                                  33
Annex 4. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Basic Information:

1.1.   Project development objectives: The objective of the project was to minimize
the threats posed by HPAI to humans in Afghanistan, by controlling such infections
among birds, and preparing for, controlling and responding to possible human infections,
especially an influenza epidemic and related emergencies.

1.2.   Project area: The project was implemented in 34 provinces through an
Implementation Support Team (IST) in Kabul and seven zonal offices: (i) Balkh Zone,
(ii) Kunduz Zone, (iii)Bamyan Zone, (iv) Kandahar Zone, (v) Herat Zone, (vi) Khost
Zone and (vii) Nangarhar Zone

1.3.  Main beneficiaries:       People of Afghanistan (farmers, poultry sellers, health
workers)

1.4.   Project components: The project had four components:

1.4.1. Component A: Animal Health (USD 6.2 Million)
Subcomponent A.1: Strengthening HPAI Control and Outbreak Containment Capacity
Subcomponent A.2: Human Safety Assurance
Subcomponent A.3: Strengthening HPAI clinical and laboratory diagnosis and
surveillance for rapid and effective outbreak detection; and containment capacity
Subcomponent A.4: Improving the capacity of poultry stakeholders to adopt
appropriate measures to counter HPAI presence in Afghanistan
Subcomponent A.5: Compensation facilities
Subcomponent A.6: Technical Assistance ­ International Consultants
Subcomponent A.7: Waste Management and Sanitation

1.4.2. Component B: Human Health (USD 3.4 Million)
Afghanistan is classified as a high risk country for H5N1 by the World Health
Organization. Avian Influenza was first detected in Afghanistan in 2006. Nine provinces
of Afghanistan mainly located in the south and east were involved and thousands of
chickens were infected and culled. In response to this outbreak, MOPH developed a
funding proposal and presented it to the donor community. NAMRU-3, CDC and World
Bank agreed to fund parts of preparedness and response plan.

1.4.3. Component C: Communication (USD 1.4 Million)
The Communications component financed baseline research, design, test and
implementation of a comprehensive and integrated communications strategy, to: (i)
elevate public awareness and promote behavior-change among at-risk and vulnerable
populations, so as to control the spread of the virus; (ii) provide visibility to the multi-
sectoral response, and generate a sense of transparency and trust; (iii) maintain high-level
political engagement during the different pandemic phases; and (iv) build upon the




                                            34
available communications infrastructure of various ministries and stakeholders, to foster
an "enabling environment."

Subcomponent A: Extensive Communication
Subcomponent A.1: Training component to priority stakeholders
Subcomponent A.2: Training to media managers
Subcomponent A.3: Community-based mobilization and media support
Subcomponent A.4: Radio serials for sustainable awareness
Subcomponent A.5: Advocacy to secure high-level political support
Subcomponent B: Intensive Communication
Subcomponent B.1: Gender sensitive communicators in the mobile response units

1.4.4. Component D: Project Management (USD 1.4 Million)
Project Management was executed through a Project Management Unit (PMU) in Kabul
and seven zonal offices. The PMU was responsible for the activities such as planning,
staffing, procurement of equipment for provinces, logistics, and organization of training
activities. In general, the PMU had contributed to the acceleration of project
implementation. In addition, financial management and procurement including auditing
were satisfactory, although the project had problems during the initial stages both in
finance and procurement.

2. Implementation results and factors affecting implementation:

Component A: Animal Health Component
2.1.      Subcomponent A.1: Strengthening HPAI Control and Outbreak Containment
Capacity
a. Selection of the VET ERTs in center and seven zones (Jalalabad, Herat, Kandahar,
     Khost, Bamyan, Balkh and Kunduz) was completed. Most of the required equipments
     and materials were provided and sent to the above mentioned zones.
b. Vet ERTs of the five zones (20) were trained during three training courses, and the
     soft and hard printed materials were distributed to the participants. Also technical
     trainings were conducted to Vet ERTs, Zonal Coordinator and Female
     Communication ERTs on AI related issues.
c. The contingency plan, which is the first step for conducting the simulation exercises,
     was developed.
d. 386,518 poultries were vaccinated against AI diseases. 200,000 doses of H5N2
     vaccines were procured.
e. 17 pick-ups, 34 motorcycles and 34 bicycles were procured.

2.2.     Subcomponent A.2: Human Safety Assurance
a. Extensive training on poultry bio-security and other AI related activities was
     conducted by AHICP, USAID and FAO. Training materials and handouts were
     developed and distributed to the participants. 119 veterinary professional and ERTs
     were vaccinated against seasonal human influenza. Messages were delivered
     extensively by female communication ERTs.




                                           35
b. Training on AI epidemiology, recognition, prevention and control was conducted for
   22 VFUs staff from Urozgan, Paktia and Paktika at the zonal office of Afghan
   Veterinary Association on 28-31 December 2009. In addition to this, training courses
   for Jalalabad VFU staff were conducted and in total 30 VFUs and governmental staff
   were trained. With coordination of the communication coordinator, in total 16
   trainings were conducted for poultry farmers and sellers.
c. Low number of PPEs was prepared with the coordination of the Animal Health
   Coordinator from GDAH&P and MoPH for five zones. Procurement of 10,000 PPEs
   was under process.

2.3. Subcomponent A.3: Strengthening HPAI clinical and laboratory diagnosis and
surveillance for rapid and effective outbreak detection; and containment capacity
a. The guideline of poultry compensation was available. The new poultry compensation
    rates were finalized and approved by MAIL, WB and MoF.
b. In order to strengthen the surveillance system for early detection of HPAI through
    VFU personnel, a TOR for VFUs was developed and approved by IST and WB.
c. Manual for investigating the AI disease was developed printed and the ERT training
    was conducted for 20 persons. In addition, 52 ERTs and VFUs staff were trained in
    two separate training courses.
d. As per the WB's advice, a procedure for remuneration of veterinarians was developed
    with the consultation of General Department of Veterinary Services and Animal
    Health, and approved by MAIL. This procedure was not approved by WB.
e. 20 Veterinary ERTs comprising Emergency Response Teams of five zones and 52
    VFUs staff and governmental veterinarians received training in AI related subjects.
f. Most of the sample collection materials were procured and sent to the zones.
g. Some of the laboratory equipments, reagents and consumables were procured and
    submitted to the Central Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory located in Darul Aman
    Kabul, and four veterinarians were trained in relevant laboratory subjects.

2.4. Subcomponent A.4: Improving the capacity of poultry stakeholders to adopt
appropriate measures to counter HPAI presence in Afghanistan.
a. Twenty Female Communication ERTs (FCERTs) were trained for a short period to
    report any high mortality of birds. Beside this, Training for 52 veterinary
    professionals of Paktia, Paktika, Urozgan and Nangarhar provinces were conducted in
    AI Epidemiology, recognition, usage of PPEs, bio-security, bio-safety and sample
    collection.
b. An awareness campaign was launched targeting houses, school children and women
    in the hospitals. Posters and awareness messages were disseminated in five zones.

2.5.   Subcomponent A.5: Compensation facilities
Poultry compensation rates were prepared considering market rates and approved by
MAIL, MoF and WB.

2.6. Subcomponent A.6: Technical Assistance ­ International Consultants
The following international consultants were recruited:




                                          36
FAO: An Epidemiologist, a Veterinary Legal specialist, and a Poultry Bio-Security
Production Specialist were recruited. The former two developed guidelines; however the
third consultant only had a mission inside Afghanistan to collect information and did not
develop any guidelines.
AHICP: An International Advisor to the Project Coordinator, Animal Health
Coordinator Advisor and Waste Management Specialist was recruited.

2.7.    Subcomponent A.7: Waste Management and Sanitation
The National Environmental Plan regarding Waste Management was developed. The
Waste Management Guideline was drafted and some required equipments for disposal of
culled poultries were procured.

2.8.    Positive Factors affecting the implementation of Component A were as
follows
The project produced a number of successful achievements, which benefited the General
Veterinary Department. These included:
a. Reagents provided to the central laboratory to periodically test samples.
b. Transport facilities were made available in zones as well as in the center, for tracing
    the cases of the HPAI and surveillance activities.
c. Suspected cases of Avian Influenza were followed up.

2.9.   Other factors influencing the implementation of Component A include:

Subcomponent A.1
 According to the FAO contract, simulation exercises were to be conducted on the 6th,
   12th and 18th month of the project; however these exercises were not conducted. FAO
   had planned it mid 2010, but due to the closure of the project in March 2010, the
   exercises were not carried out.
 The procurement specialist initiated the process of procuring a second batch of
   vaccines; however, due to the closure of the project, the procurement process was
   cancelled. The procurement of two trucks and two refrigerated vehicles was under
   process and the project was about to sign the contract with the supplier, but due to the
   closure of the project, the procurement process was cancelled.
 Time allocated to completing the project: The project was started in January 2008,
   which considering the project was closed in March 2010 meant 27 working months
   were allocated for the project. In fact, the original project timeline was three years (36
   months).
 Delaying of FAO contract: The original plan was for FAO to start their work in
   parallel with the commencement of the AHICP project, however due to the delays in
   signing the contract, FAO activities started late.
 Non-approval by WB of veterinarians' remuneration procedure.
 Problems in the procurement process of goods and items.
 Financial problems.
 Lack of staff in the Animal Health Component, which was a big component of the
   project.



                                             37
Subcomponent A.2
 Due to the closure of the project in March 2010, the procurement process of 10,000
   PPEs was stopped Subcomponent A.3
 Due to delay in signing of the FAO contract and many different comments from
   experts regarding the VFU contract TOR for surveillance, the process was delayed.
 The WB non-approval of the veterinarians' remuneration procedure, which was
   approved by MAIL, presented a significant problem for conducting animal health
   component related activities, because the project strategy relied on using veterinarians
   not as core salaried project staff but as staff that would be hired on daily basis.
 Due to the closure of the project, the ERT training for three new zones was canceled
   by FAO.
 Recently, procurement of a required reagents and consumables list, prepared by FAO,
   was under process but due to the closure of the project the procurement process was
   cancelled.
 Subcomponent A.4
 Unfortunately, the Participatory Disease Surveillance (PDS) specialist, who was
   supposed to be hired to develop manuals and conduct training courses on PDS, was
   not recruited by FAO.

2.10. Some other problems of Animal Health Component affected the
implementation in the project period:
 Most of the training, development of guidelines and procedures was under the
   contract of FAO. Due to different reasons the trainings and the guidelines were not
   completed. The delays and postponement of the activities caused delay in the
   implementation of the project activities.
 The time taken in identifying and recruiting qualified staff and international
   specialists was another problem which delayed project activities. The recruitment of
   an international specialist and national consultant in October 2009 improved the
   situation.
 The slow WB procurement procedure and NOL was the most significant delaying
   factor for implementing the project activities. Most of the procurement now was
   under process but due to the non extension of the project, the procurement process
   was cancelled based on instructions from the World Bank. One of the most important
   procurement items that cancelled was the procurement of vaccines.
 The AI surveillance system which was drafted by Animal Health Coordinator has not
   been finalized by FAO.
 The project was not designed properly to meet the requirement for preparedness, e.g.,
   laboratory rehabilitation according to international standards at zones was not
   considered. The activities in the project design were not specific to speed up the
   implementation of the project.

Component B: Human Health
2.11. Table below shows the completed activities:




                                            38
Activities                   Status      Target           Achieved                  Date
Development of               completed   Not quantified   Done                      2008-2009
command and control
structures within the
MoPH, and review of
institutional
infrastructure
Development of               completed   80% of health    Guideline developed,      2007
protocols and guidelines                 care workers     13,000 copies of the
for disease surveillance,                                 guidelines printed in
response, and case                                        local languages and
management.                                               distributed through the
                                                          health system
Develop institutional        completed   Not quantified   DEWS established          2007-2010
capacity of AI
surveillance including
data collection, analysis
and dissemination in the
MOPH
Support to rapid             completed   One per          42 rapid response teams   2007-2010
response team                            province         in 34 provinces of the
                                                          country established and
                                                          trained and 13 teams
                                                          received refresher
                                                          training
Equip four major             Not         Four referral    Two referral sites in     2009
regional medical referral    completed   sites            Kabul equipped
centers                                                   ( infectious disease
                                                          hospital and
                                                          Indraghandi hospital)
                                                          also support to lab
                                                          provided
Designation of regional      Not         Four referral    Four hospitals at the     2010
health care facilities and   completed   sites            regional level
upgrading of these                                        designated, but
facilities to serve as                                    upgrading and
referral institutions for                                 provision of equipment
persons with suspected                                    did not happen. Only
or confirmed avian                                        one referral site
influenza                                                 (Indraghandi hospital)
                                                          is under renovation,
                                                          with equipment already
                                                          procured
Procurement of Personal      completed   4,200            Project procured and      2010
Protective Equipment                                      obtained from other
(PPE).                                                    donors over 70,000
                                                          PPE kits
Procurement of Antiviral     completed   7,000 course     Project procured and      2010
medications                                               obtained Tamiflu from


                                              39
                                                       other donors over
                                                       60,000 courses
Seasonal influenza        completed   3,000            Project procured and       2007-2010
vaccine for health care                                obtained Seasonal
workers and poultry                                    Influenza vaccine from
culling workers                                        other donors over
                                                       44,000 courses
Development of case       completed   Not quantified   Guidelines developed,      2009
management strategies                                  16,000 copies of the
during the pandemic                                    guidelines printed in
phase                                                  local languages and
                                                       distributed through the
                                                       health system
Surge capacity in the     Partially   National level   Hospital surge capacity    2008
health care system        completed                    assessment completed
during a pandemic                                      with the help of MSH
                                                       in 11 provinces of the
                                                       country.
Social distancing         completed   Not quantified   Implemented where          2009
measures                                               necessary e.g. for
                                                       H1N1 pandemic
                                                       influenza
Pandemic planning         completed   National plan    Developed and              2009
                                                       endorsed
Procurement of 10 pick-   completed   National         10 double cabin            2009
up vehicles                                            pickups procured,
                                                       distributed to different
                                                       regions and used for
                                                       surveillance.
Establishment of          Completed   National         A National Influenza       2009
National Influenza                                     Center was established
Center                                                 in 2007 and recognized
                                                       by WHO as NIC in
                                                       April 2009. 11 NICs
                                                       are present in nine
                                                       EMRO countries.
Improved public                       National         Series of awareness        2007-2010
awareness of AHI at all                                campaigns conducted,
levels. (50% of                                        at the national sub
population is informed                                 national, regional and
about AI)                                              local levels; KAP
                                                       studies conducted and
                                                       results shows over 90%
                                                       of the people were
                                                       exposed to information
                                                       in the affected
                                                       provinces and lower in
                                                       other provinces.
                                                       Approx 1,000,000
                                                       pages of IEC materials,



                                           40
                                                      radio and TV spots
                                                      produced and aired
                                                      through national
                                                      channels.
HPAI control and        completed    national         Over 14 AI outbreaks     2007
outbreak containment                                  in poultry and 21
strengthened                                          suspected outbreaks in
                                                      human responded to.
                                                      System for detection
                                                      and response
                                                      established and
                                                      functional.

2.12. Positive Factors affecting the implementation of Component B were as
follows:
 Preparedness and response to the zoonotic disease: for the time being, using the
    Avian Influenza project, MoPH has infrastructure to respond to the outbreaks of
    Zoonotic diseases throughout the country, examples being detection and response to
    the outbreaks of CCHF, Anthrax and plague.
 Rapid Response teams are present in 34 provinces, and can be used for response to all
    types of zoonotic disease especially influenza.
 Resources of this project used for response to H1N1 pandemic influenza.
 The establishment of surveillance and Disease Early Warning System in the country
    was strongly assisted.

2.13. Other factors influencing the implementation of Component B include:
 The Success of project was due to the efforts of all health stakeholders at the country
    level, who provided full support to the project.
 The project design was not perfect. In future, design of the projects should be
    completed with the help and knowledge of line ministries; this project was developed
    by WB consultants and presented as a developed project and few changes were made
    at the time of design. Also, this was an emergency project but was implemented as a
    normal development project. Towards the end of the project, once the H1N1
    pandemic was proclaimed by WHO, the implementation of project was expedited.
 Lengthy procedures for procurement of goods and consultants. Use of government
    and donors' procurement procedures/guidelines for procurement at the same time
    makes the procurement process more complicated and lengthy.
 As an initial deposit was transferred to a special account of the project at the end of
    the first year, most of the first year activities were bridged by the funds of other
    donors.
 Some of project activities were overestimated.

Component C: Communication Component

2.14. AHICP is acquainted with the importance of a communications component in its
efforts to control and contain AI and reduce its risks both to humans and animals. This
component in particular tackled the following activities: a) Increased public awareness,


                                          41
controlled the spread in the poultry sector, and prevented the spread of infection among
humans; b) visibility was given to the multi-sectoral response; c) secured high-level
political support; d) promoted a pro-active community-driven response; e) Installed a
feedback and reporting mechanism, to foster two-way information flows. The AI
Secretariat, in collaboration with other technical agencies (FAO, WHO and NGOs) asked
the assistance of UNICEF in preparing a communication strategy. With the MoPH and
support from UNICEF and other UN agencies, Sayara, Media & Communication
developed and conducted a KAP survey in May-June 2007. The results of KAP survey
showed that 50% of population was informed about AI. Public awareness regarding AHI
improved at all levels.

2.15. Actions carried in the communication component
 Media was trained in professional reporting of the A-I epidemic.
 To unify communication activities: advocacy was undertaken at the highest levels;
    visibility for the animal and human health components, and the mechanisms response;
    prevention for vulnerable populations; feedback mechanisms from grass-root levels;
    and social support to containment and control interventions, comprehensive strategy
    designed and integrated.
 Coordinated with other national programs to mitigate the impact of the containment
    actions.
 Awareness raising activities were undertaken to change risk behaviors among
    susceptible populations, through informal and formal communication channels. AI
    communication needs of priority ministries (Environment, Agriculture, Health,
    Education, Rural Development, etc.) was supported.
 Most of the staff from priority ministries was trained.
 Immediate feedback /response mechanism was secured, from the grass-root level, up
    to the different decision makers involved in program implementation.
 Work done at the community/grass-root level
    a. Provision of assistance to implementation partners in their AI communication
        activities.
    b. Integration of communication in monitoring and evaluation processes.
    c. Coordinate community support for prevention activities, preparedness plans and
        containment actions.
    d. Mobilize group resources for a community-driven response.

2.16. Immediate Outputs
 The implementation of the communication component, as part of the AI Secretariat,
    coordinated with the different institutional partners.
 Communication gap which was existed negotiated with various organizations.
 Evidence-based communication strategy and action plan implemented.

2.17. Positive Factors affecting the implementation of Component C were as
follows:
 The success of implementing any communication component depends not only on the
    quality and content of the messages, but also on the effectiveness of coordination.
    Thus, the communication component had close coordination with the assistance of


                                          42
       senior AHICP staff with the ministries and organizations such as MoPH, EU,MAIL,
       UNICEF, NSP, MoE, FAO, USAID and WHO.

3.      Sustainability and impact

The project achieved its development objectives up to some extent and had positive
economic, institutional and social impacts.

a. Basic laboratory, culling, sample cooling, cold room, sample collection equipment
   and disinfectant procured and delivered to the eight zonal offices of the AHICP.
b. Capacity of about 90 veterinarians built against control, containment, bio-security and
   general epidemiology of the High Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI).
c. Awareness strategy was developed for the first time in the ministries of MAIL and
   MoPH. As a result of increased awareness within these ministries, staff from the
   ministries were able to deliver awareness raising campaigns to 22,593 families or
   87,831 women, 75,063 men and 37,709 children up to 31st January 2010. In addition
   to these activities, key information and messages were disseminated to the people in
   public places and to the students in the schools.
d. Seven Zonal Offices (Nangarhar, Khost, Kandahar, Herat, Mazar, Bamyan and
   Kunduz) and a central office were established and furnished which can be used in
   future by the department.
e. Guidelines, contingency plans, standard operation procedures and training materials
   were prepared and handed over to the GDAH & P of MAIL for future use.
f. Poultry compensation rates were determined and approved by MAIL and WB.
g. Preparedness and response to the zoonotic diseases.
h. The establishment of surveillance and Disease Early Warning System in the country
   was strongly assisted.
i. Institutional Capacity built at Provincial and Central level. Capacity building training
   activities were carried out in five zones (Kabul, Herat, Nangarhar, Khost, Kandahar
   and one new zone Mazar) with close coordination with MoPH and animal health
   component. Training was carried out in the following areas: (i) Risk communication,
   (ii) Behavior change communication, (iii) Communication methods, (iv) Capacity
   building training, (v) H5N1 training, and (vi) H1N1 only central zone.

4.      Performance rating

4.1.   Overall rating
 Project outcome                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 Risk                                            Significant

 World Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory

 Government Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory

4.2.      Detailed Ratings of Bank and Recipient Performance


                                            43
 World Bank             Rating                    Recipient            Ratings
 Quality at Entry       Moderately                Government           Moderately
                        Satisfactory                                   Satisfactory
 Quality of             Moderately                Implementing         Moderately
 Supervision            Satisfactory              Agency               Satisfactory
 Overall Bank           Moderately                Overall Recipient    Moderately
 Performance            Satisfactory              performance          Satisfactory

5. Lessons learnt from project implementation:

Contracts with UN and other international agencies should be negotiated and signed with
the support of regional/global office. ToRs should be developed at the national level.
Effective date of project should be announced after recruitment of staff and funds transfer
to the special account of that project. Joint projects between line ministries can be used as
a platform for other priorities of the same ministries as well e.g. AI project was use as a
platform for detection and response to outbreaks of other zoonotic diseases in the country
as well.

6. Recommendations and the way forward:

a. Since the project has recently started, activities and the zonal offices are actively
   operational, the project should be extended by the WB or another alternative donor
   should be found to finance the project.
b. Surveillance activities for early detection of HPAI are the most important activity that
   has to be carried out every spring, autumn and possibly before winter. This activity
   cannot be carrying out without the financial support of a donor.
c. The National Surveillance Plan and other guidelines must be finalized and completed
   as soon as possible.
d. AI vaccine procurement and storage in a bank for possible outbreak is necessary and
   the cost could either be allocated through the government fund or through any donor
   fund for at least 200,000 doses.
e. Zonal laboratories, at the moment, have been not designed for AI. Therefore, the
   present laboratories either should be rehabilitated or newly constructed based on
   international standards (at least class II level).
f. Veterinarian capacity is not sufficient to deal with AI outbreak properly because all
   the available veterinarians in the country and especially the private VFUs and
   veterinary professionals have not been trained. In order to upgrade the capacity of the
   veterinarians a training fund should be established.
g. Participatory Disease Surveillance (PDS) training for monitoring the disease in
   remote areas is very important for VFU staff and other veterinary professionals.
   National experts should be contracted to conduct PDS training.
h. It was noted that during the project period, coordination between AHICP, GDAH & P
   and FAO was inadequate. In order to implement the projects successfully in the
   future, there is need for strong and continuous coordination especially with the line
   directorate which was supposed to take the ownership of the project.




                                             44
i. In order to have proper disease information system in place (currently not available)
   there is need for the establishment of net connected software TADinfo, as available in
   FAO and practiced in other neighboring countries.
j. In future funding through the WB, the procedures of the WB should be considered
   and a simple procurement system should be designed which does not delay the
   implementation and procurement of equipment.
k. In order to speed up the training and capacity building of the veterinary department
   and other veterinarians, the project should have monitored its contractors (FAO), for
   conducting the trainings on regular basis.

7. Conclusion

Avian and Human Influenza virus can pose threats to life of millions of humans all over
the world. In order to save our people from any harm or risk, we have to be prepared to
control this virus. Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Project, funded
by WB, was indeed a very necessary concept after the outbreaks of AI in Afghanistan
back in 2006, and was designed to control the disease and reduce the risk of AI in 34
provinces of Afghanistan. However, the project showed, during its 27 months of
implementation, that there were some mismatches or incongruities between the concept
of the project and the context of Afghanistan, mainly due to its multi-sectoral design and
lengthy administrative procedures. Overall, it was a valuable project which was helpful in
the establishment of institutional capacity building to tackle the influenza virus in
Afghanistan.




                                           45
Annex 5. Comments of Other Partners/Stakeholders

(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

MAIL: MAIL has gone through the report and found it fair, however, some comments
are attached below:

       Comment on paragraph 2.5.2: There were several bureaucratic delays with
       regard to FAO technical assistance services. As one example, several technical
       documents had to be sent to FAO Head Quarters in Rome for approval. A second
       issue was that the CTA focused a disproportionate amount of time on the Cross-
       Border project, to the detriment of AHICP project.
       Comment on paragraph 5.1.2: The situation improved during the last two
       quarters of the project (October 2009-March 2010), however, the World Bank did
       not consider MAIL's recommendation for the extension of the project.

MOPH: We reviewed the ICR report and found it sound. I would like to express the
agreement of MoPH with minor modification brought on page 41 (requested change
incorporated in the summary of recipient's ICR).

(b) Other partners and stakeholders

FAO: There are several considerations I would like to do mention to clearly address the
FAO participation in this project.

   1. From the total scope of the project FAO was responsible only to provide several
      technical documents, provide trainings and advice MAIL with specifications of
      the materials and equipment to be procured to the animal health component in
      MAIL.
   2. To conduct the below activities it was signed, in June 2008, a contract between
      FAO and MAIL for $390,000 USD for 36 months length; nominating the
      representative of MAIL as the General Director of Animal Health and Production
      (GDAH&P) and in the entire document there is not specified any technical
      supervision person based in Kabul as a CTA. but only for consultants in different
      periods (epidemiologist, legalist, poultry specialist, etc).
   3. In the contract document specify that the Implementing Supporting Team
      (MAIL/IST) will support the conduction of the activities and in any line is
      describing a responsibility to report WB. FAO-HQ reports to the donor.
   4. FAO was informed in July, 2009 that the project end date was 30 March, 2010,
      several months earlier that the contract specified. In fact MAIL did not sent an
      official letter to FAO for this termination as indicated in the contract.
   5. The FAO technical documents were completed and approved by the participants
      of the workshops hold in May, 2009 and June, 2009. Thereafter several reprints of
      the documents were done in December of 2009 and March 2010.
   6. MAIL/IST took the leadership of the project over the authority of the GDAH&P
      that interfered with the implementation of the activities.


                                          46
7. The ERT, where was indicated as the target for trainings was never completed the
    most complete list of the 32 members was delivered to FAO team in February
    2010, just two months before the end the project, and in fact FAO conducted a
    training for them in three localities and different time to improve the capacity for
    training capabilities.
8. FAO prepared in advance a work plan sufficiently discussed with GDAH&P,
    MAIL/IST and WB to complete the pending activities beyond March 2010 and
    again FAO did not receive any official reply.
9. The above comment to the ICR from MAIL (on 2.5.2 Animal Health) do mention
    that there were bureaucratic delays on FAO work due to technical documents
    clearance; In fact this is the quality assurance of the technical documents provided
    by FAO. Those documents were approved in the workshops by GDAH&P
    authority after discussion with stakeholders.
10. The CTA focused on the project as indicated was in response to the request to
    FAO from the WB reviewer committee in January 2009. FAO asked the CTA of
    the cross-border project in June 2009 to support the pending activities of the
    contract and support the National Consultant of the project.




                                        47
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

      Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response
      Project ­ Technical Annex
      Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness
      and Response ­ Program Framework Document
      Financing Agreement
      Aide Memoires
      Implementation Support Reports (ISR)
      Project Correspondence
      Quarterly Progress Reports
      National Avian Influenza and Influenza Pandemic Preparedness and Response
      Plan (ANIPPRP)
      Communication Strategy




                                      48
                   60° E                                                                                65° E                                                                                                            70° E       To                                                           75° E

                                                                                                                                  U Z B E K I STA N                                                                            Dushanbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Murg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              hob

                                                                                                                                                                                             TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                   Chardzhev
                                                                                                                                                               To                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kulob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                            Dushanbe                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                  Qurghonteppa
                                                                     TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   h                                    Faisabad
                                                                                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                        JAWZJAN                                                                 ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                           Pya
                                                                                                                                                      BALKH                                  ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                         KUNDUZ                                                            mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯                                   Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                          Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                                                                                                              Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                      ¯                       Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                ¯                                                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                                              Sharif
                                                                                                                                                                  ¯                                              TAKHAR
                                                                                                                                Saripul
                                                                                                                                                                   Samangan                            Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NO RT    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORT H E AS T
                                                                                                                                                                         ¯
                                                             To                                         Meymaneh
                                                           Mary
                                                                                                                               NO RT H
                                                                                                                               NORTH                                ¯
                                                                                                                                                              SAMANGAN                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                      BAGHLAN
                                                                                                   ¯ YA ¯
                                                                                                 F A R YA B                                                                                  duz
                                                                                                                                                                                          on
                                                                                                                                                                                         Q¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                     e                                                                   Chitral
                          To                                                                                                                                                      -y
                                                                                                                          SARIPUL
                                                                                                                          SARIP UL                                             ya                                                  ¯    ¯
           35° N
                      Mashad                                                  ¯
                                                                            B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                      I               Mor
                                                                                                           gh¯
                                                                                                             ab
                                                                                                                                                                            ar
                                                                                                                                                                           D¯                                  ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARWAN                 NURISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E AS T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS
                                                                                                                                                                                              ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                            Mahmud-e Raqi
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯¯                         Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯                                                            35° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KAPISA
                                                                                                                                                                                              Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯ ¯
                                                                              Qal`eh-ye Now                                                     ¯    ¯
                                                                                                                                              B A M YA N
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                         Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                                           CENT RA L LAGHMAN KUNAR
                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTRAL                                                       To

                                                           Herat
                                                              ¯
                                                                                                           CENT RA L
                                                                                                      WEST CENTRAL                                                                                       ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                        KABUL                      Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯              Mardan

                                                                           ir¯d
                                                                             u                                                                                          WA R D A K
                                                                        Har¯                       Chaghcharan
                                                                                                            ¯                                                                                                ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                            KABUL           Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯¯ ¯                                                 AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                          Meydan
                                                  ¯
                                            H E R AT                                                                                                                                       Shahr                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NANGARHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOGAR
                                                                                                 GHOR                                                                                                      Pol-e `Alam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Peshawar

                                                WEST
                                                WES T                                                                                         nd                                                             PAKTIKA
                                                                                                                                       lma
                                                                                                                                    He                        G H A Z N ¯ Ghazni
                                                                                                                                                                        I      ¯                           Gardiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KOWST              To
                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                   URUZGAN                                                                                               Kowst            Kohat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAKISTAN
                                                                Fa
                                                                  rah
                                                                   ¯                                                                                                   SO UT H
                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH                          Sharan

                                                                          ¯
                                                                     FA R A H                                    Tarin Kowt
                                                                                                                    ¯
                                       ut
                                    ¯r
                                   Ha
                                       ¯
                                                        Farah
                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                         I ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                  P A K T¯K A                                                                      AFGHANISTAN
           ISLAMIC                                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                          ZABUL                                                                                                AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA
                                                                                                                                              Qalat
                                                                                                                                                 ¯
           REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTROL AND PREPAREDNESS
                                                                            h




                                                                                                 SO UT H WEST
                                                                                                 SOUTH
                                                                          Kh¯ s
                                                                            a




           OF IRAN                                                                                                                 Tar
                                                                                                                                       n¯ k
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EMERGENCY PROJECT
                                                                                   Lashkar Gah
                                                                                            ¯
                        Hamun-e
                         ¯ ¯
                                                                                                     Arghandab                  ¯
                                                                                                                          Kandahar                                                                                                           TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE AND REGIONS
                          Saberi
                          ¯ ¯                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                         Zhob

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                               Zaranj                        HILMAND
                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                   KANDAHAR                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                   ¯
                                            N ¯M R O Z
                                              I
                                                                                                                                                               0        50               100           150 Kilometers                                               MAIN ROADS
                                                Helm                                                                                               To
                                                     and                                                                                           Quetta
           30° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                            Gowd-e                                                                                                             0                50                      100 Miles
                                             Zereh                                                                                                                                                                               30° N                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 34820
                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                  REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
MAY 2006




                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
           60° E
                                                           PA KI S TA N                            65° E                                                                                                                      70° E
