Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4642-SN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Finance Support - Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated, July 10, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4642-SN 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated July 10, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to forty million and 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,400,000) (var
iously, “Credit” 
and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is 
the Minister at the time in charge of economy and 
finance
.
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar, Senegal 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Habib 
Fetini 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program 
include the following: 
A. 
To restore budgetary discipline and avoid a recurrence of fiscal slippages 
1. 
(i) Adoption of a decree by the council of ministers of the Recipient that limits spending 
carryover to the budget of the next fiscal year to 5 percent of the previous fiscal year’s 
appropriations; (ii) carrying out of an inventory by the MoF of all active public 
procurement contracts; and (iii) adoption by the Council of Ministers of a supplemental 
budget (
Loi de Finances Rectificative
)
for the fiscal year 2009 reflecting such new carry-
over rules. 
2. 
Make the new public financial accounting system (ASTER) functional in all the 
centralizing accounting stations, as evidenced by the production and submission to the 
Association of monthly balances of the Recipient’s Treasury on ASTER with the 
objective to produce consolidated public account balances. 
3. 
Publication on the web site of the MoF of monthly budget execution reports from SIGFIP 
every month, including the January, February and March monthly reports. 
4. 
Preparation of the public accounts for financial year 2006 and submission of the prepared 
public accounts to the Audit Office (
Cour des Comptes
). 
5. 
Adoption by ARMP of a  regulation approving the standard bidding documents for 
works, goods and consulting services and making the use of such documents mandatory 
in public procurement operations. 
B. 
Mitigate fiscal risks emanating from public sector entities 
6. 
(i) Submission to Parliament of a law on public sector agencies with the objective to 
strengthen the regulatory framework for improved oversight of agencies; (ii) adoption by 
Parliament of such law; and (iii) issuance of related implementing regulations that define 
the conditions of creation, dissolution, operation and control of such entities. 
7. 
Initiation of an action plan to restore the financial soundness of hospitals, as evidenced 
by: (i) the adoption by the managers of the twenty hospitals in the Recipient’s territory, 
the ministry in charge of health and the ministry in charge of economy and finance of a 
memorandum of understanding that ensures that all twenty hospitals develop a financial 
Page  7
-6- 
 
recovery plan as a condition for state financial assistance; (ii) the creation of an inter-
ministerial committee, including representatives from the ministry of the Recipient in 
charge of health and the ministry of the Recipient in charge of economy and finance, 
responsible for the oversight of hospital recovery plans; (iii) the creation of an oversight 
unit for the 
Sésame
 plan of the ministry in charge of health; and (iv) adoption and 
publication of a decree by the council of ministers of the Recipient that sets out a health 
map for 2008-2013. 
C. 
Protect key developmental objectives 
8. 
Adoption and communication of a ministerial ordinance by the Minister of the Recipient 
in charge of environment that confirms the abolition of the quota system for wood cutting 
and charcoal production from January 1, 2010 onwards, and prohibits wood cutting for 
charcoal production in non-community managed forests. 
9. 
Operationalization of the FERA through: (i) the adoption of a decree by council of 
ministers of the Recipient  establishing the FERA; (ii) the adoption of a decree by the 
MoF creating road user charge; (iii) the appointment of an administrator for the FERA; 
and (iv) the opening of an account for the FERA at the Recipient’s central bank; and (v) 
the transfer to such bank account of the proceeds from the road user charge through the 
adoption by the Council of Ministers of a supplemental budget (
Loi de Finances 
Rectificative
)
for the fiscal year 2009 authorizing such transfer. 
10. 
Transfer of budgetary appropriations for the FDD and FECL to local communities for 
financial year 2009 by the MoF. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
40,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,400,000 
Page  8
-7- 
 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into a 
dedicated foreign currency account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association (“Deposit Account”); and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is 
March 31, 2010
.
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2019  to and including 
March 15, 2029 
1
commencing September 15, 2029  to and including 
March 15, 2049 
2
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“ARMP” means 
Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics
,
the agency of the Recipient 
in charge of public procurement. 
2. 
“Audit Office” means 
Cour des Comptes, 
the entity in charge of external control of 
public finances of the Recipient, including ensuring the auditing of accounts and of the 
management of public establishments and enterprises, assisting the parliament of the 
Recipient and the government of the Recipient in controlling budget law execution, and 
conducting studies on the public finance of the Recipient. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. “FDD” 
means
 the 
Fonds de Dotation de la Décentralisation, 
the
 
local government 
operating fund through which the flow of fiscal transfers from the central budget 
to local governments is managed. 
 
5. 
“FECL” means the 
Fonds d’Equipement des Collectivités Locales,
 the local 
government investment fund through which the flow of fiscal transfers from the 
central budget to local governments is managed.
 
6. 
“FERA” means 
the 
Fond 
d’Entretien Routier Autonome
,
the Autonomous Road 
Maintenance Fund. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
8. “MoF”
 means the ministry of the Recipient in charge of economy and finance
.
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Page  12
-11- 
 
letter dated June 4, 2009
 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
10. 
“SESAME plan” means the action plan adopted by the Recipient’s ministry in charge of 
health dated September 1, 2006 which seeks to allow for full and free coverage of 
hospital care to all citizens above the age of 60. 
11. “SIGFIP” 
means 
the 
Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques
,
the Recipient’s 
integrated public financial management system. 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  13
-12- 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
