Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4767 
Operation Name 
Senegal: Public Finance Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
(20%); Health (20%); Sub-national government administration 
(10%); General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P107288 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 5, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 13, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
June 18, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
From the mid-90s until 2005, Senegal had one of the best economic performances in Sub-
Saharan Africa
.
Though there were brief episodes of low growth, real GDP grew on average by 
about 5 percent annually, marking the first sustained increase in average per capita growth since 
independence in 1960.  Poverty declined rapidly
—the fraction of the population that fell below 
the poverty line declined from 68 percent in 1994/95 to 51 percent in 2005/06.  The regional 
monetary arrangement—a currency union, managed by the supranational Central Bank of the 
West African States, with a peg to the French franc until 1999, and the euro since then—
provided a framework of monetary and price stability.  On the fiscal policy front, the authorities 
pursued a broadly stable track, enhancing revenue mobilization and maintaining control on 
current expenditures, while allowing for a gradual increase in capital and pro-poor spending.  
The achievement of the HIPC completion point in 2004 and, in 2005, MDRI, and prudent 
concessional external borrowing allowed a sharp reduction in the stock of debt. 
In 2006-07, however, a series of shocks buffeted the Senegalese economy
.
The run up in oil 
prices and, starting in 2007, the surge in food prices weighed down on the economy and drove 
end-of-period inflation to 4 percent in 2006 and 6 percent in 2007 from an average of ½ percent 
over the previous three years.  Escalating oil and food prices also contributed to a widening of 
the external current account deficit—Senegal imports all its oil (which powers most of its 
electricity), and respectively 80 and 100 percent of its rice and wheat consumption.  Sharply 
higher oil prices and a policy-mandated incomplete pass-through to retail electricity prices 
compounded internal inefficiency in the electricity parastatal, SENELEC, resulting in high costs 
and blackouts, which hurt economic activity
1
.
Other shocks were internal.  Poor rains in both 
2006 and 2007 led to a fall of agricultural output of about 15 percent in each year.  Despite the 
1
SENELEC’s 2006 losses alone required an injection of budgetary subsidies equivalent to 1.8 percent of GDP. 
Page  2
sector’s small share in GDP—about 7 percent in 2006—, falling agricultural output contributed 
to trim at least one percentage point in overall GDP growth in both years and to exacerbate the 
impact on the population of escalating food prices.  Deep financial difficulties in the largest 
exporting firm, the phosphate mining and phosphoric acid production firm ICS which is majority 
foreign private-owned, led to a sharp slowdown in its activity, and another loss of one percentage 
point of GDP growth in 2006 (the company was recapitalized in early 2008). 
Nonetheless, growth, while falling below trend, managed to sustain some momentum over 
2006-07.
 
Real GDP growth slowed to 2½ percent in 2006, but recovered to 4¾ percent in 2007.  
Mitigating the slowdown in agriculture and industry, sectoral performance was strong in 
construction and the services sector.  The telecom sector in particular continued to register 
double-digit growth—the number of subscribers to fixed or mobile phone lines stood at 88 per 
100 people in 2007, compared to 44 in 2000.  Importantly for Senegal’s medium-term prospects, 
an expansion of investment underpinned these developments: domestic investment expanded 
from 24 percent of GDP in 2003 to 31 percent of GDP by 2007, with an estimated 1/3 increase in 
both private and public investments.  The investment expansion itself was fueled by the 
continued robust growth in remittances (20 percent a year in nominal terms
2
), steady expansion 
of public works, and increasing foreign direct investment in the telecom, port, and mining 
sectors. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
This program document proposes a Public Finance Support Credit for the Republic of 
Senegal in the amount of SDR40.4 million (US$60 million equivalent).  
This is a stand-alone 
Development Policy Operation, following a series of three Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits 
(PRSCs) successfully completed over 2003-2007 and ahead of a new series of PRSC expected to 
be initiated by FY10.  The operation aims to support the authorities’ efforts to bring their fiscal 
stance to a sound and sustainable track, mitigate fiscal risks emanating from public sector entities 
and protect critical developmental objectives at a time when the authorities must maintain a tight 
fiscal policy and cope with the impact of the global crisis.  Both the urgent need for financial 
assistance and the current focus of policy makers on fiscal issues make a stand-alone operation a 
more appropriate instrument for Bank support to the authorities at this juncture than a new series 
of Poverty Reduction Support Credits. Policies and reforms supported by this operation are well 
aligned with Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.  The proposed operation is also fully 
consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s FY07-10 Country Assistance Strategy. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
From the mid-90s until 2005, Senegal had one of the best economic performances in Sub-
Saharan Africa
.
Real GDP grew on average by about 5 percent annually, marking the first 
sustained increase in average per capita growth since independence in 1960.  Poverty declined 
rapidly—the fraction of the population that fell below the poverty line declined from 68 percent 
in 1994/95 to 51 percent in 2005/06.  The regional monetary arrangement—a currency union, 
managed by the supranational Central Bank of the West African States, with a peg to the French 
2
There remains a large uncertainty on both the level and annual growth in total remittances, as significant flows are 
thought to be transferred from abroad outside official banking and cash-transfer channels. 
Page  3
franc until 1999, and the euro since then
—provided a framework of monetary and price stability.  
On the fiscal policy front, the authorities pursued a broadly stable track, enhancing revenue 
mobilization and maintaining control on current expenditures, while allowing for a gradual 
increase in capital and pro-poor spending.  The achievement of the HIPC completion point in 
2004 and, in 2005, MDRI, and prudent concessional external borrowing allowed a sharp 
reduction in the stock of debt. 
Senegal, which had long prided itself on the strength of its macroeconomic management, 
had an unusually weak fiscal performance in 2008
.
Budget slippages emerged early in the 
year, reflecting the interplay of external shocks and internal policy factors—the fiscal impact of 
the oil and food price shocks, difficulties in accessing financing in the regional money markets, 
and weaknesses in fiscal policy and public financial management.  In response, the authorities 
adopted a plan of fiscal and structural corrective actions that was endorsed by the IMF Board in 
late December.  There has been strong progress in late 2008 and early 2009 in the 
implementation of these corrective actions, and a clear demonstration of resolve to avoid a 
recurrence of budget slippages. 
The country is trying to emerge from its 2008 fiscal problems at a time of extraordinary 
stress in the global environment.  Being a very open econ
omy, Senegal’s exposure to the 
global crisis is significant
.
This said, there are both positive and negative effects, and there 
remains high uncertainty on the depth of the global crisis’s transmission to the domestic 
economy.  On balance, the net impact of the global slowdown is expected to be negative.  
However, the already evident strength of the authorities’ response to their 2008 fiscal problems 
is turning out to provide a critical boost that, together with a prudent macroeconomic 
management going forward, should help Senegal weather the global crisis, at least through 2009. 
4. Financing 
 
(US $m) 
Source:  
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
 
IDA (Credit)                                                                                                
US$60 m 
 Total 
US$60 
m 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance
.
The General Audit Office is required by law to produce its annual report on the public 
accounts to Parliament with the Budget execution laws (
Loi de Règlements)
 by the end of the 
year following the execution of the budget.  A copy of this report and the public accounts 
attached should be submitted to IDA. 
Page  4
6. Risks 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation.  All of 
these risks could lead to a smaller-than-estimated impact on poverty of the policies 
supported by the proposed DPO.
 
Yet, the design of this operation, with a relatively focused 
agenda and high donor involvement, should help mitigate these risks.  Risks include: 
(i) 
a
deeper and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated
.
Senegal’s short-term prospects hinge mainly on developments in the global economy and their impact on 
Senegal’s relatively open economy, which remains highly uncertain.  The core mitigation strategy is for 
the authorities to complete their domestic arrears repayment, steer a stable fiscal course for the year, and 
adopt resolute reforms, especially in the PFM area, that may in turn convince donors to provide additional 
resources to buffer the budget from the consequences of a more abrupt slow down.  (ii) 
political 
opposition, including from vested interests.
 
Recent municipal elections, which saw the victory of 
opposition parties in several key urban centers, may have somewhat weakened the authorities’ political 
position and they should be expected to continue to grapple with issues of consensus building on their 
responses to the crisis.  Nonetheless, the balance of risks to the policy objectives of the proposed 
operation is viewed as favorable to moving forward with the operation.  Vested interests can also 
represent important obstacles to reform, especially reforms that foster transparency in the use of public 
resources.  Under the proposed operation, risks arising from political opposition and vested interests are 
mitigated by the fact that all policy measures are implemented before credit approval and also contingent 
on the dialogue between the Government and the IMF under the PSI. The commitment of the 
Government, as exemplified by the significant measure of adjustment already undertaken, and continued 
Bank engagement also enhance the likelihood that reforms are being followed through and policies 
sustained. (iii) 
weaknesses in capacity to implement reforms.
 
This risk is manageable in Senegal.  The 
implementation of PFM and procurement reforms is supported by several donors (IMF, France, EU, 
Canada, and The Netherlands) and the Bank with technical and financial assistance.  The Bank and other 
donors are also supporting capacity improvement in other areas, including decentralization and hospital 
reform.
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to have positive effects from the improved fiscal stance 
and public financial management, as well as key reforms supported to protect key 
development objectives in a context of difficult external conditions
.
Sustaining 
macroeconomic stability is a critical goal in the short term to help Senegal weather the global 
crisis.  Failure to achieve this goal has the potential to undo the significant progress that has been 
made in the last decade in poverty reduction.  Policies supported under the proposed operation 
will also help improve the capacity of the state to implement its budget priorities.  Strengthening 
public financial management will contribute to enhance efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in public resource use, to the benefit of the population at large and in particular 
the poor, which remain a majority.  Also, financial support under the proposed operation will 
allow the State to maintain levels of public service provisions at planned levels in a context of 
tight fiscal policy and limited external financing.  Efforts to protect forest resource management, 
road maintenance and decentralization at a time when the authorities must maintain a tight fiscal 
policy and cope with the impact of the global crisis are also expected to have a positive impact 
on growth and income generation, and basic service delivery. 
 
Page  5
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
