Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8750-0
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PKOJECT
MAY 30, 1991
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
s document has a restricted diribuion and may be used by redplents only in the pedoimanoe of
their offichi dotis. Its conents may oo -otherwe be dbclosed without Wodd Bank authorit



I to
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Dominican Peso
RD$  =  US$ 0.08
US$1.00 = RD$13.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gallon = 3.785 liters
1 mile = 1.6129 kilometers
1 pound = 0.453 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
APD                  Dominican Port Authority
DGC                  General Directorate of Roads
DCCT                 Department for Control of Earth Excavation
DGM                  General Directorate of Road Maintenance
DGPP                 General Directorate of Planning and Programming
DARE                 Department for Administration of External Resources
DGSFO                General Directorate for Supervision of Works
DGTT                 General Directorate for Land Transport (SEOPC)
OTT                  Office of Land Transport (within Presidencia)
ONATRATE             Public Bus Company
PRESIDENCIA          Secretariat of the Presidency
SEOPC                Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................1
II.      THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .............................                                3
A. The Setting ..........................                                        3
B.   Institutional Framework ...........................3
C.   The Transport Subsectors ..........................                        4
(a) Roads ..........................                                       4
(b) Ports ..........................                                       4
(c) Air. Transport ...........................                           10
(d) Railways ..........................                                   11
D.   Experience with Past Lending in the.......................
Transport Sector ................................                   11
III.   THE PROJECT ...............................                                        13
A.  Justification ...............................                              13
B.  Objectives ...............................                                 13
C.   Project Description ...............................                        14
D.  Project Costs and Financiikg ............................. 18
E.  Economic Evaluation ...............................                         20
IV.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................                         22
A.   Project Execution ...............................                         22
B.  Procurement ...............................                                23
C.  Disbursements ...............................                              26
D. Audits ...............................                                      26
E.  Monitoring ...............................                                 26
F.  Environmental Impact ...............................                        27
G.   Project Risks ...............................                             27
V.      AGrEEMENTS REACHED ...............................                             28
This report if based in the findings of the eopreisal mission wh.ch visited t.he Dominican
Republic from March 21 to April 6, 1990, and an updating mission In October 1290. The mission
comprised Messrs. Amnon Mates, Task Manager/Economist, Jos6 Marta Atonso Biafge and Jos4 Luls
Irigoyen, Engineers, and Stanley Kowelski, Consultant/Engineer. Ms. Sylvia Delgado assisted in
the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers               Dominican Republic.
Amount:                 US$79.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                  20 years with 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:    The key objectives of the project are:  (a) bring
the highway network to acceptable operating
standards through a program of road rehabilitation
and periodic and routine maintenance; (b) improve
the institutional capability of the Secretariat of
Public Works (SEOPC) to plan and maintain the road
system; (c) increase the availability of road
operating equipment; (d) improve the quality of
pavements; and (e) strengthen the domestic
construction industry.
Project Description:   The project will finance the first three years of a
five-year highway investment plan agreed with the
Bank. The project would comprise: (a)
rehabilitation of about 830 km of roads and
supervision of these works; (b) a program of
periodic maintenance to be executed by private
contractors and SEOPC; (c) a program of workshop
reconstruction; (d) equipment rehabilitation
including purchase of spare parts; (e) road
signalling and marking and vehicle weight control;
and (f) technical assistance for training equipment
operators, pavement technology transfer, road
maintenance management, a rural roads inventory, an
urban transport study, a construction industry
study, general training and scholarships; and
engineering services for road design.
Project Benefits:       The project will result in a substantial improvement
of the physical condition of the highway network and
a significant reduction in vehicle operating costs.
improved access to markets and further tourism
development. All subprojects included in the
project and the five-year plan were subject to an
economic analysis which discarded any investment
with a rate of return below 12%. Other benefits
include improving the institutional setup,
increasing availability of equipment and
productivity of workshops and introducing an
improved system of road maintenance, thereby
eliminating the need for repeated road
rehabilitation cycles.



- 2 -
Proiect Risks:          The main project risks ares  (a) slow implementation
of the road maintenance program. To minimize this
risk, the proposed project includes an agreed five-
year maintenance program supported by extensive
training in pavement technology, and consultants for
the maintenance management system. Periodic
maintenance will be largely contracted out and the
maintenance organization strengthened both at the
central level and in the field; (b) possible delays
in starting civil works because of insufficient
engineering design capability. First year designs
were completed before negotiations and the project
includes funds for preparation of engineering
designs by outside firms; (c) delays in issuing bid
documents and selection of inexperienced
contractors. Standard bidding documents were
completed and stricter criteria for prequalification
of contractors were agreed during negotiations; (d)
high staff turnover. While the project provides
some incentives in the form of training programs,
the reduction of staff turnover has to be resolved
in the context of overall Government policy in the
public sector.
Project Cost:                   Local         Foreign         Total
_______    (US$ million)
Road Rehabilitation, Repaving   14.4              33.5          47.9
Periodic Maintenance               9.2             9.2          18.4
Bridge Rehabilitation              0.4             1.0           1.4
Workshop Reconstruction            0.4             1.1           1.5
Equipment Repairs & Spares         0.5            12.6          13.1
Supervision of ci,vil Works        1.2             2.8           4.0
Techuical Assista:tce              0.4             4.8           5.2
Physical contingencies             1.7             3.3           5.0
Price contingencies                4.2            10.3          14.5
Total                             32.4            78.6         111.0
Financing Plan:
Government                        32.0             -            32.0
IBRD                               -              79.0          79.0
Estimated Disbursements:          ---           Bank  Fiscal  Years----------
1992           1993          199"        1995
($ million)
Annual                             5.7            21.3          25.7       26.3
Cumulative                         5.7            27.0          52.7       79.0
Estimated Economic Rate:         49? - weighted average
of Return                        for all roads in the project.
Map: IBRD 22366



- 3 -
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Setting
2.01     The Dominican Republic covers the eastern two thirds of the island
of Hispaniola in the Greater Antilles (Map IBRD 22366). It has an area of
about 48,700 km2 and a population of close to 7 million, which is growing
at an annual rate of 2.4Z. The country is crossed by four mountain ranges
separated by fertile valleys. The major population centers and
agricultural production are in and around the Cibao Valley. The economy
relies heavily on the transport system to provide an adequate and efficient
access to markets for primary agricultural production and mining output.
Domestic cargo traffic consists mainly of exports commodities to the ports
(sugar, coffee, cacao and minerals) and internal trade in agricultural
products from the Cibao Valley and industrial and consumer goods from Santo
Domingo. Tourism, which is now second only to agriculture in contribution
to exports, depends heavily on transport infrastructure for future growth.
2.02     The Dominican Republic has developed a relatively dense transport
network which includes about 19,000 km of roads (of which about 14,000 km
are rural roads), 1,700 km of railway, 14 ports (two major ones) and five
principal airports (two with scheduled international service). The
transport sector accounts for about 6Z of GDF. Highway transport is the
most widely used mode, and the network provides access to all major
producing areas. Because of the relatively small size of the country, the
location of its resources and its economic structure, average haul
distances are short (about 100 km). Sugar cane is the only commodity
transported mainly by rail, which is operated by the State Sugar Council.
B. Institutional Framework
2.03     The Secretariat for Public Works and Communications (SEOPC, Chart
I) is responsible for maintaining the road network, supervising
construction and reconstruction of roads, and transport policy and planning
(with the exception of regulation of passenger transport, which is in the
hands of the Secretariat of the Presidency - Presidencia - and freight
cargo rates, which are determined by the Secretariat of Industry and
Commerce). The transport functions of SEOPC are divided among two
Subsecretariatst the Subsecretariat for Roads is responsible for road
design, maintenance of the network and supervision of construction, and the
Subsecretariat for Land Transport is responsible for traffic regulation,
vehicle inspection, eriver licensing, and vehicle weight control. The
organizational setup of the SEOPC is reasonable. However, the General
Directorate of Road Maintenance (DGM) within the Subsecretariat of Roads is
weak: first, its effective number of employees differs from its payroll
list; second, its personnel is not adequately trained; third. it has no
valid plan for staff deployment among zones and tasks; and, fourth, it has
not pursued consistent road maintenance plans. As part of the proposed
project, the DGM will be strengthened and reorganized, with staff
redeployed as required, a training program initiated and a specific medium-
term road maintenance plan developed and executed (See paras. 2.08-2.11 and
3.06-3.08).



-4-
2.04     The General Directorate of Planning and Programming (DGPP) within
the Subsecretariat of Roads is responsible for investment planning, project
budgeting, and maintaining the transport sector data base including road
physical data, vehicle operating costs, and tr'ffic and vehicle fleet
characteristics. A major effort has been made in recent years through
technical assistance and training to upgrade staff knowledge and install
improved planning systems. Indeed, the investment planning area is now
functioning smoothly and the quality of staff has improved considerably.
The proposed 1992-96 road investment plan has been prepared by DGPP staff
with assistance by consultants financed under the Third Road Reconstruction
Project (Loan 2609-DO). DGPP staff is now able to update the investment
program and conduct new feasibility studies as necessary. In order to
strengthen DGPP's ability to carry out its functions, it should also absorb
the traffic count section, now within the Subsecretariat of Land Transport
(para. 2.15).
2.05     The budget of the SEOPC is approved annually by Congress based on
submission by the Presidencia. Budget allocations to the road sector have
been reasonably stable as a percentage of total Government expenditure:
they have varied between 92 and 11? in the period 1980-1988 (Table 1).
This level is reasonable. However, the process of preparing the road
construction budget has been increasingly shifting away from the SEOPC to
Presidencia, giving the latter substantial control over the selection of
roads to be rehabilitated. Secondly, the budget contains less funds than
would normally be required for road maintenance and more than normal for
reconstrujction (necessitated by inadequate past maintenance practices--see
paras. 2.09-2.11). Through an agreement on a five-year highway
rehabilitation and reconstruction plan, the proposed project is designed to
shift the budgeting process for road rehabilitation back to the SEOPC and
give it a determining role in road selection. The project also emphasizes
an increased level of expenditure for road maintenance, both routine and
periodic (paras. 3.07-3.08).
2.06     The SEOPC also plays a role in the airport and port subsectors.
The Secretary of Public Works is ex officio chairman of the Airport
Commission, which overseas airport operations and investments and approves
the budget for these purposes. The Secretary of Public Works is also the
President of the Port Commission, which is the governing body of the
Dominican Port Authority (APD). In addition, SEOPC supervises the design
and constrtction of the ports through its Ports and Wharfs Department and
conducts port dredging operations.
C. The Transport Subsectors
(a) Roads
(i)    General
2.07     The road network consists of about 4,900 km of highways and about
14,000 km of rural roads. Of the total highway network about 3,800 km are
paved or being paved and about 1,100 km are unpaved (Tables 1 and 2). The
highway network comprises 1,073 km (22?) of primary roads, 2,302 km (46Z)
of regional and 1,569 km (32Z) of local roads. All primary roads, and
about 70? of regional and local ro,ds, are paved (Table 3). Of the total



-5-
rural road network, 700 km are either paved or being paved. Recent surveys
conducted by the SEOPC show that about 1,300 km (27S) of the highway
network are in bad condition and need rehabilitation or reconstruction.
This is an improvement from the more than 2,000 km reported in need of
major repairs in 1985. The improved state is due to the major effort
mounted by the Government in recent years to rehabilitate existing
highways. In the period 1987-89 the reconstruction of 517 km of highways
was completed and 448 km are still under construction. The effort was
supported by funds provided under the Second Road Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 1784-DO), now completed, and the Third Road Reconstruction Project,
Loan 2609-DO, which is nearing completion. There is no up-to-date
inventory of the rural road network.
(ii)   Road Maintenance
2.08     Maintenance of the highways and rural road networks (Annexes 1-2)
is carried out by the General Directorate of Maintenance (DGM) with two
sub-directorates at the central level: one for highway and rural road
maintenance and another for operations. with a common organization at the
district ievel. DGM also supervises road maintenance equipment and
operates all workshops (Annex 3). DGM employs about 6,000 people, of which
1,200 are at the central level, with the rest working in four maintenance
districts (Santo Domingo, Santiago, La Vega and Azua). The districts are
further divided into 21 sub-districts, each employing some 200 people. The
number of workers at the DGM appears excessive, but a closer examination
reveals that only about 3.500 people are actually working in the districts
in maintenance activities (Annex 4).   This number ought to be sufficient
to carry out the required maintenance work. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that by December 31, 1991, SEOPC will furnish to the Bank a
plan on organization and administration of personnel for DGM, detailing the
positions assigned to road maintenance activities and their costs.
2.09     Maintenance planning is not generally practiced.  DGM has a
planning unit which is using a highway maintenance model developed by
consultants under the previous Bank loans. However, this planning unit is
understaffed and does not cover the rural road system. Furthermore, there
is no quantitative input from the field operating units to the planning
unit. Another difficulty originates from the fact that all funds for
purchase of materials are controlled centrally within SEOPC and are not
assigned directly to DGM. Finally, release of approved funds by the
Ministry of Finance is often delayed. As a result, the planning function
is limited in reality to budgeting for ad-hoc works without following
established budget procedures and without keeping adequate records.
Technical assistance will be provided under the project to implement the
existing road maintenance management system, which would also improve the
budgetary control and monitoring (paras. 3.18-3.19 and Annexes 6-7).
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the funds allocated to road
maintenance will be provided promptly to DGM. Agreement was also reached
that, as part of the implementation program, SEOPC will strengthen the
planning unit of DGM by adding an engineer and an assistant engineer, and
nominate an engineer in charge of highway maintenance irn each of the 21
sub-districts. These actions should take place no later than December 31,
1991.



- 6 -
2.10     The rural road network of about 14,000 km is also maintained by
the SEOPC. However, the planning organization for rural roads at the
central level is practically non-existent and works are essentially limited
to projects financed by IDB and USAID. From 1980 to 1984, IDB financed the
construction of 700 km of feeder roads and is currently financing the
reconstruction of an additional 1,000 km with two loans. A new project in
preparation will finance reconstruction of another 1,000 km. Between 1982
and 1987 USAID financed the rehabilitation of 900 km of feeder roads and is
now financing routine maintenance of 2,000 km. Such maintenance is carried
out by local part-time workers, nominated by the community, who are paid a
modest amount by the SEOPC and use tools and equipment provided by the
USAID program. This scheme has been successful. In addition, SEOPC has
about eleven road teams assigned to maintenance of rural roads, capable of
maintaining an additional 3,500 km per year. Given the results of a CIDA
study that estimated the viable rural road network at about 9,000 km, it
appears that over one third of the viable rural roads do not receive any
maintenance. The implementation program agreed during negotiations
includes a provision to create a separate planning and control tunit for
rural roads within DGM by December 31, 1991.
2.11     Road maintenance practices in the Dominican Republic continue to
be deficient. The faults lies principally in inadequate planning and
deficient organization of work and in insufficient budgetary allocation.
Maintenance expenditures for 1989 were about RD$48.5 million, compared to a
desirable level of RD$75.0 million. The budget shortfall is mainly in
materials, where only about a quarter of the required amount is provided by
the budget. On the other hand, the budget allocation for personnel exceeds
the amount required because provision is made for workers who do not
perform actual work. The shortfall in maintenance affects mainly surface
treatment, thin overlays and resealing where materials play an important
role. As a result of deficient maintenance, many roads deteriorate and
eventually require rehabilitation and reconstruction. The improvement of
maintenance practices is the focus of the proposed project, which includes
an agreement on adequate funding levels, administrative arrangements to
ensure that allocated funds are indeed used for maintenance work, and
technical assistance to reorganize and train the planning and
Implementation units of the DGM (see paras. 3.07-3.08 and 3.17).
(iii) Highway Design and Construction
2.12     Highway engineering design is the responsibility of the General
Directorate of Roads (DGC) within the SEOPC. Most highway design is done
in-house. The quality of SEOPC's engineers is reasonable, although better
pay in the private sector results in high staff turnover. Supervision of
civil works is the responsibility of the General Directorate for
Supervision (DGSFO), which is assisted by outside consultants assigned to
individual projects. Construction is normally carried out by contractors,
both local and foreign, although SEOPC has some construction capacity which
it reserves mainly for emergency works.
2.13     At present, the private road construction industry has five big
firms well equipped for road construction and rehabilitation works; some
20-25 medium-size firms with equipment to carry out rehabilitation works on
short sections of highways and feeder roads; and more than 40 small
companies of individual contractors with limited owned or rented equipment.



Services cf the small companies are retained for minor road maintenance or
rehabilitation works. Road equipment owned by most companies is mostly of
older vintage because contractors prefer, due to high import taxes, to buy
used reconditioned equipment from overseas suppliers. Rented equipment is
in short supply and prevailing rental rates are high.
2.14     In the past, most government contracts were awarded directly
without competitive bidding. Since 1978, bidding has become common,
together with contract negotiation. Bank's insistence on institutionalized
competitive bidding further accelerated the process of enhancing
competition. Also, in the past some contracts were awarded to private
contractors who did not have adequate experience and the capacity to carry
out the works at the required pace and in adherence to acceptable quality
standards. To ensure acceptable quality of civil works, the format
relating to prequalification of contractors has been revised (paras. 2.33
and 4.11). Furthermore, the proposed project includes a study of the
construction industry to identify the main constraints to development of
the industry, review procurement procedures and contracting practices,
choice of technology, training, equipment financing and legal environment.
Terms of reference for the study are included in Annex 8.
(iv)   Traffic, Vehicle Fleet and Axle Load Regulation
2.15     The last extensive road traffic count in the Dominican Republic
was carried out in 1985. The unit within the Directorate of Land Transport
(DGTT) which is responsible for traffic counts has lost most of its staff,
its equipment has broken down and budget allocations have been insufficient
for it to carry out its tasks. As part of the preparation of the proposed
project, traffic counts were carried out on a case-by-case basis by the
Pavement Division of the DGPP, which also maintains the transport sector
data base. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as part of the
implementation program, the unit responsible for traffic counts will be
transferred to the DGPP by December 31, 1991, and that '.t would be properly
staffed and budgeted for.
2.16     The vehicle 'leet has been expanding at 6% p.a. since 1980 and
totals about 200,000 (Table 4). The fleet consists of 59% cars, 33Z
trucks, 6% buses and 21 other vehicle. Of the various categories, buses
have increased fastest reflecting the urbanization trends and the small and
inadequate fleet in the base year. Consumption of both gasoline and diesel
shows a similar increase to that of.the vehicle fleet, at about 7% p.a.
(Table 5). The increases in the fleet came despite high level of customs
duties, which range from 1402 for small cars to 200 for large cars.
Import taxes on trucks are at 45% and for buses at 82%.
2.17     Axle weight control was first addressed under a law in 1967.  The
law established maximum dimensions of vehicles; authorized the Government
to establish regulations for dimensions and weight of the different types
of road vehicles; authorized the DGTT to implement these regulations; and
established sanctions to be applied to violators. The law, however, did
not establish norms for maximum weight or axle loads. In JuJy 1970, the
Government issued a decree which established maximum single and double axle
loads at 9,000 kg and 14,500 kg respectively and established fines for
overweight vehicles. Further modification was introduced in February 1976
by the DGTT allowing a maximum load of 13,000 kg for single axles (four



- 8 -
wheels) and 21,000 kg for tandem axles of eight wheels with a provision for
a reduction of these maxima if the axles have fewer wheels.  These higher
limits are consistent with recent Bank-sponsored research in developing
countries.  Higher axle loads allow truck operators to lower their costs
per ton carried, whiie requiring the road authority to build thicker
pavements.  The optimum for the economy as a whole is likely to be reached
if the legal limit is set in the range 12-13 tons for single axles.
2.18     To control vehicle axle loads. SEOPC had constructed five
permanent weighing stations. Only one of these stations is operational at
present: weighing equipment has never been installed at two stations and
it is damaged and inoperative at two others (each station requires 9
operators and a supervisor). Experience with vehicle weight control in
other countries demonstrates, however, that the policy is better enforced
when portable scales are used. The latter prevents vehicle operators from
using their knowledge of the location of the weighing stations to evade
control. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as part of the
implementation program, SEOPC will purchase the portable scales and put
them in operation no later than the end of 1991.
(v)    Passenger Transport
2.19     Urban passenger transport in the Dominican Republic is provided
essentially by private enterprises and controlled by the Office of Land
Transport (OTT) within the Presidencia. The OTT exercises substantial
control over urban transport in Santo Domingo: it issues permits, inspects
vehicles and assigns routes and frequencies. The tariff level in recent
years was very low: in mid-1989 it was set at the equivalent of US$0.08
for individual operators and cooperatives and US$0.04 for the Government-
owned entity, ONATRATE. The tariff level was too low to cover operating
costs and capital replacement. As a result, most of the vehicles used in
passenger transport are old and in bad condition. Recently, the Government
took steps to alleviate some of these pressures and authorized a
substantial increases in rates to RDS1.50-2.00 (US$0.12-0.15). ONATRATE's
revenues in 1990 overed only about 30? of its operating costs (excluding
depreciation) and the company relied on the Government to cover its losses
and replace its aging fleet of about 180 buses. The Government also
provided incentives to the urban transport cooperatives by providing loans
on preferential terms (no down payment and no interest). Despite such
recent financing for 300 buses, urban passenger transport remains grossly
inadequate, especially in the capital city of Santo Domingo. There are no
fixed passenger stations, and frequencies and assigned routes are not
observed. The equipment is, by and large, obsolete and insufficient.
4ajor improvements in street infrastructure, including drainage and
signalling, are also required. The magnitude of the issue is such that it
goes beyond the scope of the proposed project. However, funds have been
included in the project for a major study of urban transport demand, street
infrastructure, and improvements required in transport operations and
policies (see terms of reference in Annex 9).
2.20     Inter-urban passenger traffic is provided by eight major
companies. The OTT has to approve routes and frequencies but this
procedure is merely a formality as practically all requests are approved.
OTT does not interfere with tariff setting by the private operators and
competition works well. All companies have their own terminals and
schedules are observed.



(vi)   Freight Transport
2.21     About half of freight in the Dominican Republic is transported by
ir,dividual operators and about half by truck owners who belong to
syndicates or associations. Entry into the sector is free of Government
intervention and the various associations have been formed on a voluntary
basis. The most important associations are: (a) the National Federation
of Dominican Transport (FENATRADO), which groups together 17 syndicates and
is mainly engaged in general freight; (b) Association of Container
Transporters (ATFI), which specializes in container traffic; and (c)
Association of Transporters of Petroleum which has a practical monopoly on
transport of petroleum products. The only strictly regulated transport is
that of petroleum products, where all vehicles need an operating permit,
are assigned to specific routes and are subject to fixed rates.
2.22     For general freight the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, in
consultation with the DGPP, sets up maximum rates for each pair of -rigin
and destination. The system has been in existence since 1974. Since 1977
the official freight rates have increased roughly in line with the CPI. In
reality, actual tariffs quoted are below the maximum levels set by the
Government. A recent study by consultants (Delcan, RJA, SAE, SERCITEC,
Canada-Dominican Republic) found that the present maximum rates provide a
substantial (20Z) margin over the observed transport cost and, therefore,
do not restric  competition or prevelit operators from entering the market.
DGPP has adopted a new methodology, recommended by the study, to compute
vehicle operating costs and set tariffs.
(vii) Fuel Prices and Road User Charges
2.23     The main sources of user charges in the road sector have been
taxes on petroleum products. Table 7 summarizes the total user charges for
the period 1985-89 and compares them to the total spending on the highway
network. Since actual maintenance cost have been below the levels required
to maintain the network in good condition, an adjustment was introduced to
bring the maintenance budget to its required level. As the table
demonstrates, user charges in 1986 covered maintenance as well as almost
all construction costs. However, because of the lag in adjustment of
gasoline prices and the lack of any change in diesel prices, fuel tares on
transport uses which exceeded RD$200 million in 1986, were a negative RD$32
million in 1989 (total fuel taxes on all uses declined from RD$476 taillion
in 1986 to a negative RD$200 million in 1989). As a result, total road
user charges for 1989 were estimated at RD$14 million, which is less than
the RD$75 million required just for maintenance. The situation was
reversed following the major adjustments in the prices'of diesel and
gasoline (see below).
2.24     Petroleum product prices are controlled by the Government.  From
1985 to 1989 these price eroded in real terms (Table 6). In mid-1990
gasoline was priced at RD$ 6.00 (US$0.79) per gallon and diesel at
RD$2.50(US$0.33) per gallon. The ex-refinery prices were RD$5.40 (US$0.71)
and RD$2.29 (US$0.30), respectively. This compared with a border price in
April 1990 of US$0.60 per gallon of gasoline and US$0.55 per gallon of
Diesel. While there were nominal (not earmarked) taxes on both products,
in reality the refinery was compensated for losses incurred when import
price and processing costs exceeded ex-refinery prices. The situation
I



- 10 -
changed drastically since mid-1990 when the Government took a decision to
allign the ex-refinery price with international price levels. In several
subsequent tariff actions the prices of diesel and gasoline were raised to
the present level of RD$13.50 (US$1.04) per gallon of diesel and RD$20.00
(US$1.54) for gasoline. This is 50Z and 1202, respectively, over border
prices and should generate about US$140 million in tax revenues from
transport users, a level sufficient to cover all road maintenance and
construction costs.
2.25     Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government will
maintain dieFel and gasoline prices at a level sufficient to cover at least
their CIF cost-Santo Domingo. The Government will also take all actions as
may be required to ensure that the costs of road maintenance are borne by
road users.
(b) Ports
2.26     There are fourteen commercial ports in the Dominican Republic, of
which 10 serve foreign trade, one serves tourism and three serve domestic
coastal traffic. Two ports are administered privately and provide services
only to their own traffic: La Romana (Central Romana Corporation) and Cabo
Rojo (Ideal Dominicana, S.A.). The Government intends to have the
Dominican Port .- thority (APD) eventually administer all public sector
ports, of which aix are on the Caribbean Sea and six on the Atlantic Ocean.
In the meantime, the APD manages the five largest ports and the General
Directorate of Customs manages the rest. The SEOPC is supervising the
civil works done at the ports, including the US$47.8 million improvement of
the Haina port, financed with a US$35 million loan from the IDB. The
supervision function is to be transferred in the future to the APD. The
SEOPC also handles port dredging activities.
2.27     Total tonnage at the ports exceeded 10 million in 1989.  The most
important port in terms of traffic is Haina, just outside Santo Domingo,
which handled in the period 1987-89 about 702 of all traffic (Table 8).
The overall number of ports is excessive and partial closure could result
in substantial cost savings. At the same time, the Puerto Plata port could
be further developed to become a major tourism port as well as to handle
additional traffic from northern routes, for which the port offers economic
advantages.
(c) Air ,ran port
2.28     There are 44 airports in total but only five principal airports
for international traffic: Las Americas (Santo Domingo), and Puerto Plata
(scheduled flights), and La Romana, Santiago and Punta Cana (chartered
flights). The first two have runways of over 3000 m long and are designed
to accept B-747s.  La Romana airport is operated by La Romano Corporation
for international charter flight. Its runway is paved and 900 m long.
Santiago and Punta Cana airports are also paved and have runways of 1,600
and 2300 m long, respectively. Although La Romana and Punta Cana are
privately owned, the Government provides services of customs, immigration,
security, sanitation, and air traffic control. Santo Domingo international
airport is by far the most important: it handles about 75? of all
passenger traffic estimated at 2.5 million in 1988, and 922 of all freight
traffic. It is followed by Puarto Plata which bandles 23? and 71,
respectively.



- 11 -
2.29     International services are provided by numerous international and
one Dominican airline. There are no scheduled domestic flights, and all
domestic traffic is provided by air taxis carrying five passengers. With
the projected expansion in tourism, arrivals are expected to reach about
2.7 million in the year 2000 compared to 1.3 million in 1988. The major
increase is again expected in Santo Domingo and Puerto Plata. However,
Punts Car.d airport is likely to start offering scheduled services to
satisfy the demand generates by the large tourism development in the
eastern part of the island.
2.30     Administration of the major airports, except of the privately
owned La Romana and Punta Cana airports, is the responsibility of the
Airport Commission. There are 37 airstrips or aerodromes with limited
facilities, which are operated by the General Directorate of Civil
Aeronautics. The Government is funding the Airport Commission but revenues
generated by the airports (not earmarked) are more than sufficient to cover
recurrent expenditures. In 1987 revenues exceeded expenditures by RD$4.4
million and in the period 1984-87 the excess averaged RD$5.1 million. In
the same period revenues contributed about 802 of capital expenditures.
(d) Railways
2.31     The railway network is 1725 km long and almost entirely devoted to
the transport of sugar cane to the mills. Of the total railway network,
1036 km are owned and operated by the State Sugar Council. Several private
companies own and operate railways. Of these, the most important is La
Romana Corporation, which operates a network of 420 km and provides
transport to the La Romana sugar mill.
D. Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector
2.32     The Bank has made four loans for road reconstruction:  the First
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316-T-DO, US$5.0
million, 1976) provided for the reconstruction of a section of the main
road connecting the capital with Santiago, the second largest city of the
Dominican Republic. Other components were a bridge rehabilitation program
and support to the Road Maintenance Directorate of SEOPC. The Project
Performance Audit Report No. 3716 (Board Doc. No. Sec. M-81-987) of 1981
indicated that project implementation generally developed as planned, but
price increases forced a reduction in the scope of the project since it
took 2.5 years to achieve congressional ratification and effectiveness of
the loan. The second Bank operation was an Emergency Road Reconstruction
Project (Loan 1783-DO, US$25.0 million. 1980). It supported reconstruction
of 150 km of hurricane-damaged roads. connecting agricultural areas in the
northwest with Santiago and in the southwest with Santo Domingo. Because
of its emergency nature, the loan was approved by the Bank before
engineering designs were available for the project. When these were later
completed and bids were received, it became evident, even after lowering
standards to obtain cost savings, that project costs would be about 502
above those estimated at loan approval. The Project Completion Report
(December 1984) indicates that beginning implementation of the project on
the basis of incomplete engineering work was the primary cause of later
delays and cost increases, but that the project, when completed, remained
economically justified. To avoid similar problems under the proposed loan,



- 12 -
detailed engineering designs for the roads to be financed during the first
year were completed before negotiations and the ac.ion plan includes target
dates for completion of final engineering for the second and third-year
project roads. The Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1784-DO, US$35.0 million, 1980) provided financing to reconstruct 150
km of priority primary and secondary paved roads, upgrade maintenance
operations and investigate the utility of labor-based techniques for rural
road construction. A technical assistance program for read maintenance was
also carried out under this project.
2.33     The Third Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-DO, US$35.8
million, 1986) provided financing for: reconstruction of 150 km of
highways that were started under Loan 1784-DO, and about 60 km of other
high-priority highways; purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts: consulting services for construction supervision; a transport
planning study; and assistance in training the Pavement Division staff of
DGPP and in organizing workshops and stores. Generally, the project has
been executed as planned, and is now nearing completion (expected closing
date is December 31, 1991). However, lack of strict criteria for
prequalification of contractors caused major delays and cost overruns in
construction of one highway where, eventually, the work had to be
transferred to,n other contractors. The existing document used by SEOPC in
the process of prequalification of contractors is very general in nature
and lacks valid quantitative criteria. The latter should be modified to
ensure that the contractors would be prequalified only after they comply
with specific criteria established to ensure that they can handle the
expected volume of work (para 4.11). A revised document, acceptable to the
Bank, was prepared by SEOPC and agreed during negotiations. The revised
document will be used to prequalify all contractors.
2.34     The transport planning study, financed under Loan 2609-DO, has
been completed and its recommendations taken into account in designing the
proposed project. Consultants employed under the loan installed a road
pavement inventory system, and an evaluating mechanism for road pavements
using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model, developed by the Bank. A
traffic projection model and a data base system for the road network and
the vehicle fleet are also in place. The technical assistance for
workshops and stores brought about substantial improvement in inventory
control. However, the workshop reorganization program continues to suffer
from lack of adequate facilities. The proposed loan includes financing for
a workshop reconstruction program.
2.35     The Bank supported the improvement of a sugar railroad network in
various areas of the country as part of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project,
Loan 1760-DO, US$25.0 million, 1979. In addition, the Bank has financed
the construction of rural access roads under various agricultural projects.
2.36     Despite recent improvements. institutional weakness. especially in
the area of road maintenance, continues to affect the road sector and
threatens the benefits obtained from past operations of both the Bank and
other financiers. High staff turnover, mainly caused by low level of wages
in the public sector, often requires repetition of training programs. From
time to time, staff departures bring about the decline of whole
organizational units. As an example, the Planning Department for Rural
Roads, supported by USAID, has practically disappeared (and the rural road



- 13 -
inventory lost), as has the traffic count section of the DGTT. The weakest
organization link is the Directorate for Road Maintenance (DGM), which is
operating without a clear organization of field units, without work norms
and specific plans, and without satisfactory budgets. The success of Bank
operations in the long run will depend on the creation of an efficient
maintenance organization. The proposed project is focused on improvements
in road maintenance practices.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Justification
3.01     The Government's strategy in the transport sector, supported by
the Bank, has focused on reconstruction of key links of the highway
network. This rehabilitation effort has accelerated in recent years, with
the Bank supporting rehabilitation of about 200 km through Loan 2609-DO,
and with the Government, using its own funds, completing reconstruction of
517 km in the period 1987-89. As a result, the highway network's condition
has improved since the last inventory was taken in 1985. Of the total
network, about 1,300 kn are currently classified as needing rehabilitation
(compared to over 2,000 km in 1985). The Goverument is aware that
transport is a critical production and marketing facilitator for the
economy, which depends heavily on production of goods. Therefore, the
Government has requested Bank support to continue the rehabilitaEion
program. The improved roads will enable year-around traffic at
substantially reduced vehicle operating costs, thereby creating incentives
for increased production and reducing outlays of scarce foreign exchange.
A highway network in good condition, adequately maintained, would not
require substantial investment to restore heavily deteriorated road links.
Finally. many road links included in the rehabilitation program are
essential to the development of tourism, especially in the northern and
eastern part of the country.
3.02     The benefits from the rehabilitation works will not be maintained
in the long term without assuring a well-executed maintenance program for
the highway network, and the setting up of an efficient organization to
plan and carry out this maintenance program; this should be the main
contribution of Bank's participation in the proposed project. The deep
changes in reorganization of the work force, the systematization of a
medium-term maintenance program, increased budgetary allocation, ano
introduction of periodic maintenance by contract, would be implemented only
with Bank involvement and close supervision. Bank participation will also
enable the annual updating of a five-vear investment plan based on changing
road condition and demand requirements. The proposed project would build
on the extensive technical assistance program started uiider the previous
Bank projects.
B. Objectives
3.03     The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) reduce vehicle operating costs, improve access to markets and
encourage tourism development, by rehabilitating about 830 km
of deteriorated highway links over a three-year period;



- 1.4 -
(b) improve the institutional capacity of SEOPC to maintain the
road system by introducing detailed work programs,
reorganizing the work force, providing additional funds for
road maintenance materials, and training maintenance staff:
(c) increase the availability of equipment through a detailed
equipment rehabilitation program; and
(d) improve the quality of road pavements through an extensive
technical assistance program in this area.
C. Project Description
(a) Highway Rehabilitation
3.04     The proposed project finances the initial three-year slice (1992-
1994) of SEOPC's five-year (1992-1996) program of road rehabilitation and
priority reconstruction (Tables 9-10). The five-year program would provide
for the strengthening of 1,286 kilometers of roads.   The slice to be
financed under the proposed project comprises about 834 kilometers or 65
percent of the network identified in the five-year program. It includes
425 km of rehabilitation and new paving and 408 km of overlays. The list
of all road sections included in the three and five-year programs is given
in Table 9. Agreement was reached during negotiations that SEOPC will
carry out the 1992-96 Highway Investment Program according to the list
agreed with the Bank and included in the document "Programa de
Rehabilitaci6n de Carreteras 1992-96%. Any modification or addition will
be done only after obtaining the Bank's approval. The five-year program,
as agreed with the Bank, will be updated annually and presented to the Bank
by September 30 of each year. The staff of the DGPP has been trained and
is now capable of updating the investment program according to the agreed
methodology.
3.05     The road rehabilitation component has been evaluated in the
context of a pluriannual maintenance program based on a detailed road
condition inventory prepared in 1989-90 by SEOPC and its consultants. For
the purpose of this analysis, the network has been divided into sections,
each reflecting different pavement conditions and structural
characteristics and traffic. Estimates of the type and quantity of work
required on each section served for the preparation of preliminary cost
estimates for the works required to restore the sections to as-built
condition. About 250 km of roads which were analyzed justify only routine
maintenance and were excluded from the rehabilita '.on program. The average
base cost per km is US$67,000 for rehabilitation, and US$47.000 for
overlays. The total base cost of the rehabilitation and reconstruction
program is US$47.9 million of which the Bank will finance the estimated
foreign exchange cost of US$33.5 million (70Z of total cost).
(b) Highway Maintenance
3.06     Prior Bank projects provided technical assistance to prepare and
develop a maintenance management system, andesome training was provided
especially for equipment management and workshop organization. However,



- 15 -
while a highway inventory was carried out and a system designed to
calculate budgetary requirements, the work force was never properly
organized and a detailed work program was never implemented. The budget
for materials continues to be released by SEOPC for maintenance activities
on an ad-hoc basis and equipment continues to be scarce, given the bad
condition of the fleet and the late start in equipment rehabilitation under
the on-going Bank loan.
3.07     During project preparation a detailed budget for maintenance for
the period 1992-96 was drawn up (Tables 2-10, Annex 1), using the existing
road management system. Total requirements for labor, materials and
equipment were determined using performance standards for each activity
based on approved work methods. The programn for the period covered under
the project (1992-94) is US$19.3 million equivalent for routine maintenance
(about US$1,300 per km per year) and US$18.4 million equivalent for
periodic maintenance (about US$1,240 per km per year). The required
amounts are substantially above the amounts budgeted in recent years. For
example, the routine and periodic maintenance total about RD$82 million for
1991. The comparable figure for 1989 was RD$48.5 million. In order to
supplement SEOPC's resources, the project includes financing for the
foreign exchange component (US$9.2 million) of the US$13.7 million
allocated for periodic maintenance by contract over the 1992-94 period. An
additional US$4.7 million in periodic maintenance will be done by SEOPC
though force account, bringing the total periodic maintenance to US$18.4
million.  The periodic maintenance works to be financed by the Bank will
essentially include resealing of 805 km at a cost of US$17,000 per km.
3.08     The 1992-96 Highway Maintenance Program (Programa de Mantenimiento
de Carreteras 1992-96) as specified in Tables 5-9, Annex 1, forms an
integral part of the project and was agreed during negotiations. The
Government agreed to provide the funds necessary to implement these
programs. Agreement was also reached that by September 30 of each year,
SEOPC will present to the Bank a satisfactory updating of the road
maintenance budget for the next fiscal year, and by March 31 of each year
report to the Bank the actual budget, by category of expenditure, spent for
maintenance in the preceding fiscal year.
(c) Bridge Rehabilitation:
3.09     SEOPC's proposed bridge rehabilitation and repair program includes
eight truss bridges identified and surveyed by SEOPC engineers responsible
for the maintenance of bridges. The works required to preserve the
integrity of these structures comprise repairs of the bridges' metallic
superstructure, repairs of the expansion bearings, and some minor repairs
to the abutments. The cost of this work is estimated at US$1.4 million
(Table 11).
(d) Workshop Rehabilitation
3.10     Under Loan 2609-DO, the Bank financed a stock of spare parts and
technical assistance to reorganize existing workshops. However, several
existing workshops require reconstruction to bring the existing facilities
to an acceptable standard.  Also, there is a need for construction of
several small workshops to carry out miner repairs and preventive
maintenance. Details of the program are give in Annex 3, Table 6. The



- 16 -
project includes US$1.5 million for this program. As part of the agreed
implementation program, SEOPC will create a separate superintendency for
workshops, and staff it adequately by December 31, 1991.
(e) Equipment
3.11     The current road maintenance fleet of SEOPC (Annex 3) is large
enough to carry out the 1992-96 maintenance program. However, many pieces
of equipment need to be rehabilitated before they can be put into service.
A list of equipment for rehabilitation and repair has been prepared by DGM
with the assistance of consultants (Annex 3, Table 3). The total cost of
the program, to be financed by contract with local suppliers' workshops, is
about US$4 million. In addition, the maintenance of SEOPC's road
maintenance equipment requires acquisition of a stock of spare parts. The
proposed project includes US$7.6 million for this propose. The amount is
based on a detailed calculation for each type of equipment (Annex 3,
Table 5). Minor repair programs will be carried out by SEOPC and more
major repairs by local suppliers' workshops. Purchase of new equipment
will be limited to 20 mowers for mechanical vegetation control at a cost of
US$0.6 million. This item is of special importance because rapid
vegetation growth, c-aused by the tropical climate, interferes with drainage
flows and results in major highway damage. As part of the agreed
implementation program, SEOPC will create a separate equipment management
unit within DGM by December 31, 1991.
3.12     The current signalling system is inadequate.  Except for major
traffic arteries, there are no road markings and vertical signalling is
minimal. A program for marking and signalling for the period 1992-96 has
been prepared and amounts to US$0.9 million (Annex 5). The project
provides for the materials needed for pavement marking and signalling at a
cost of US$0.6 million. The loan also finances the equipment required to
enforce axle weight control at a cost of US$0.2 million.
3.13     The project also includes the purchase of equipment for use by the
Department of Control of Earth Excavation (DCCT) within the SEOPC, which is
responsible for controlling the environmental impact of road works and
excavation (paras. 4.19 - 4.21).
(f) Supervision of Civil Works
3.14     The project will fund supervision by independent consultants of
the civil works carried out under the project to provide quality control
and ensure compliance with bid specifications. It is estimated to cost
about 8% of the total works to be contracted. The estimated base cost is
US$4.0 million.
(g) Institutional Strengthening
3.15     This component is designed to improve subsector planning and
management and to set up an efficient organization to carry out the
maintenance programs. It aims to achieve transparency in staffing for road
maintenance and transparency and adequacy of maintenance budgets and
allocation of funds through: (i) an action program agreed with SEOPC; (ii)
training for equipment operators; and (iii) technical assistance.



.17 -
MC)    Action Proaram
3.16     The action program will includes Ci) detailing through a personnel
organization and administration plan, the staff positions assigned to road
maintenance activities within the DGM,and their total costs; (ii) adding an
engineer and an assistant engineer to DGM's planning unit: (iii) nominating
an engineer in charge of highway maintenance in each of the DGM's 21 sub-
districts; (iv) creating a separate planning and control unit for rural
roads; (v) creating a superintendency for workshops; and, (vi) creating an
equipment management unit within DOM. This would complement agreement on
transparent maintenance programs and budgets (para. 3.07).
(ii) Training for Eaui2ment Operators
3.17    The high turnover of staff, who are attracted to the private
sector by higher wages, has left SEOPC with less qualified operators,
resulting in low quality of output and reduced availability of equipment.
The project includes a training program for the operators of the various
equipment. The base cost of the program is US$0.3 million.
(iii) Technical Assistance
-    Trar. fer of Pavement Technoloay to DGM and Local Contractors
3.18     One of the major factors that have prevented adequate periodic
maintenance in the Dominican Republic has been the lack of technical
expertise to carry out surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete
overlays on roads paved with bituminous materials, especially using asphalt
emulsion as binder. Bituminous surface treatments should be a normal
periodic maintenance activity to prevent deterioration and to extend the
economic life of paved roads. The lack of expertise in surface treatment
affects not only SEOPC's maintenance effort but also the domestic
construction industry, which lacks the ability to carry out technically
sound surface treatments. Loan 2609-DO included a component to help SEOPC
improve its know-how in applying road surface treatments. However, SEOPC
requested a deferment of the program because it felt that the assistance
should be accompanied by an intensive program of maintenance work.
Accordingly, the proposed project includes a technical assistance program
for technical personnel from DGM and from the domestic construction
industry. The program is described in para. 4.06 and the terms of
reference, which were agreed with the Government during negotiations, are
given in Annex 6. The base cost of the program is estimated at US$2.3
million.
-    Road Maintenance and Equipment Management
3.19     The existing road maintenance model installed by Roy Jorgensen
Associates (USA) in 1985, needs to be reviewed and brought up to date.
Also, assistance is needed in designing proper procedures to record all
maintenance expenditures, implementing the road maintenance and equipment
management system, and training DGM staff in its application. Detailed
terms of reference are included in Annex 7 and were agreed with the
Government during negotiations. The project provides US$0.8 million for
this assistance.



- 18 -
-    Updating Rural Road Inventory
3.20     No systematic maintenance of the rural road network is possible
until there is a detailed inventory of the rural road network. This
project component involves a physical survey of the existing inventory, and
a determination of which roads should be maintained and which roads should
be abandoned or turned over to local authorities. The base cost of the
study is estimated at US$0.2 million.
-    Preparation of Engineering for Highway Design
3.21     The task of completing the final engineering design for the roads
included in the Five-Year Highway Investment Program is beyond the capacity
of the SEOPC. Funds are therefore included under the project for
contracting outside consultants to assist SEOPC in carrying out the
engineering designs for roads included in the last two years of the
proposed project. This will facilitate the project's timely execution.
The total base csst is US$0.6 million.
-    Urban Transport Study
3.22     As explained in para. 2.19, the urban transport sector requires a
major analysis of population projections and distribution in Santo Domingo;
derived transport demand projections; analysis of required transport
services; changes in national and city government policies and regulations
to improve services and induce increased private sector participation;
upgrading of street infrastructure and signalling; and enforcement of
traffic regulations. Terms of reference for the study, which were agreed
with the Government during negotiations, are given in Annex 8. The cost of
the study is estimated at US$0.5 million.
-    Construction Industry Study
3.23     An analysis is required of the existing capabilities and structure
of the construction industry in order to identify the constraints on the
present typical contractor in the areas of management, equipment and
finance. The analysis should assess the effectiveness of Government
incentives to strengthen the viability of local firms. The study should
also review the existing levels of construction technology and ways to
improve it. Other areas covered by the study include: wage rates,
employment regulation, import procedures and customs duties, taxation
regime and codes and regulations affecting the construction industry.
Detailed terms of reference, which were agreed with the Government during
negotiations, are given in Annex 9. The cost ot the study is estimated at
US$0.1 million.
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.24     The total cost of the three-year (1992-94) program, including
provision for contingenc_es over the implementation period, is estimated at
RD$1,443 million (US$111.0 million equivalent), of which US$79.0 million or
71 percent of the total project cost, would be financed under the loan.
The balance of the project's cost, RD$416 million (US$32.0 million
equivalent), would be financed by the Government. The project will finance
the foreign exchange component for civil works and equipment and all of the
components, the foreign and local base costs, the provisions for physical



- 19 -
DM43ChN  REPUBLIC
FIFTI BO REHDILIT?AT1  ID AM INTAhOCE PRO3C?
FIVANCIEt OF PP0IEC0 COSTS (1992 - 1994)
-         -..... _.,. -..... ---__-_-_-_- --- -------------------------------_-___-  ... .................... .  .  ................................ _._ ____  ___...................____.___.  ..................  __....w.
ProJOet Coats                  Pro*act Costs             S  Bn
R0$ millioan          I         5$ swio              *   LOaS
Local   foreign      Total * Locel   Foreig         TotalS    a wg$ 
A.   CvilVr                                                                   ........  _                             ... 
(1) Road Rleconstiwtioa & Uebabilitation                  104.2     242.9     347.1 a    8.0        18.7      26.7 a 10.7    702
(U) RepaVing                                                83.1     192.4    275.6 *       6.4      14.8      21.2 o 14.8       702
TOaWl (A) Vorkl                                       187.3     435.3     622.6 *    14.4       33.S      47.9 i 53.5
A.  Periodic Road  intatenace                               58.5      119.6     178.1      4.3       9.2       13.7 t  9.2      672
-Porlod.Vdatt. by Administration                       61.1       0.0      61.1 s    4.7         0.0       4.7 a  0.0       O0
C.  Rlhbtattiot of Bridge                                    5.1       13.0      18.1 a     0.4       1.0        1.4 a   1.0    702
D. Lokop & BU                Reconstruction                  5.1       14.4      19.5 a    0.4        1.1        1.5 *   1.1     702
2     q. uipet                                                                        * 
Equipment  rhabilitation by contract                    6.5      19.5       26.0 *    0.5        1.5       2.0 *   1.5    75
Eq 4u   rehabilitation spare parts                      0.0      26.0      26.0 a    0.0         2.0       2.0 a  2.0    1002
Purebre  of    ere                                      0.0       7.7        7.7 s    0.0        0.6       0.6 S  0.6    1002
Spar part . operati                                     0.0      98.9      98.9 S    0.0         7.6       7.0 a   7.6   I10S
Read sins end markings                                  0.0       7.9        7.9 S    0.0        0.6       0.6 a  0.6    1002
ale weiogt control - equip.                             0.0       2.6        2.6 a     0.0       0.2       0.2 I  0.2   1002
Evwlxai<ital protection - equip.                       0.0       1.4        1.4 a     0.0       0.1       0.1 I  0.1   1O0S
_-___-__- ............................. -_.-._-.-_.- .................. . . ........ . _.--__. ................. t_ ... _
Total (E) EquSipae                                      6.5      163.9     170.4 *     0.5      12.6       13.1 *  12.6
P.  Supervisio  of Civil Works                              15.6      36.4       52.0 a     1.2       2.8       4.0 a  2.8       702
S                             a
0.  ?ech..Asit.ncO for  .                                                             a
.......... ................____..... _....  
Trainin  equ nt operators                               1.4       2.7        4.1 a     0.1       0.2        0.3 a  0.3    1002
Pavemen teology trauser                                 0.0      32.5       32.5 *    0.0        2.5       2.3 *  2.5    100I
_easgemout of road maintenance                                                   I
d SOPC eqipment pork                                   0.0      10.4       10.4 $    0.0        0.8       0.  8 *0.8    1002
Updating rural roads iwtory                             0.0       2.6        2.6 S    0.0        0.2       0.2 a  0.2   1OO2
Prepartion of enginering                                                         a                              I
for propd 5-year progras                               3.9       3.8        7.7 a    0.3       0.        0.6 I  0.6    1002
Uran terport study                                      0.0       6.5       6.5 a    0.0         0.5       0.5 *  0.5    10S
Constrcti   Industry study                              0.0       1.4        1.4 a    0.0        0.1       0.1 I  0.1   1OO2
Trainn  and Scholarsbips                                0.0       2.6        2.6 s    0.0        0.2       0.2 S  0.2   IO10
----_--_--__--.-_-_-_-__-__  ..........................__ ._. ......... *._ .......__. ._... ---------
Total (0) Tecd. Assistasto                              5.3      62.4       67.7 a     0.4       4.8       5.2 a  5.2
.__......__.________.................................. _  ._... _.___............. _. ............... ______........... __ ........ . .,._
ase *Oat (A thru 0), April 1990 prices                      344.5     845.0  1, 19.5 a   26.5         65.0      91.5 a 65.3       712
Cotigenciss  Phytical IS of A(i                                                                                      I
5S of A1il),8,DI 15$ of CI                   22.1      42.9      65.0 t      1.7       5.3       5.0 a   3.3    662
Prie 1991-1995, 5S of                                                 I                              S
A'B,C,DIE,F A a                              54.6     133.9     188.5 t      4.1      10.3      14.5 *  10.5      712
... ... .    .                                                 1._.. .1....... ........... . . . ......_._.,_  .............. . ...... . 2.  78.6......9. ..
amE  TOMF                                             421-2    1021.6   1,443.0 i   22.4        *8.6     111-0   79.0       712



- 20 -
and price contingencies and the loan financing. The project cost by year
is shown in Table 12. The costs reflect April 1990 prices.
3.25     Project cost estimates are based ons (i) preliminary cost
estimates obtained using up-dated costs of past similar highway
resurfacing, rehabilitation and reconstruction works; (ii) preliminary
engineering for the road maintenance program; (iii) published suppliers'
current equipment and spare parts prices adjusted for inflation; and (iv)
prevailing fees for individual technical assiatance consultants (US$10,000
per man-month for expatriate consultants and US$6,000 for local). Because
the local currency has been depreciating against foreign currencies
reflecting high local inflation rate. the costing was done in foreign
currency equivalent.
3.26     Provision for physical contingencies varies according to the type
of work. For road reconstruction and rehabilitation works involving earth
works, drainage and pavement overlays, 1O0 of the contract base price has
been adopted; for repaving and periodic maintenance, 5% of the contract
base price is considered adequate. Physical contingencies are estimated at
RD$38.0 million (US$5.0 million). Provision for price escalation is based
on Bank projections that consider price index variations for manufactured
goods which are dominant with respect to highway-related goods imported to
the Dominican Republic. The rates used are tive percent for the period
1992-l996. Price contingencies total RD$110.2 million (US$14.5 million
equivalent).
3.27     Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government will
earmark the counterpart funds needed for the project in its investment plan
for the next three years as followss 1992 - US$10.5 million equivalent;
1993 - US$10.7 million; and 1994 - US$10.8 million.
E. Economic Evaluation
3.28     An economic analysis was performed during project preparation for
each road included in the rehabilitation component of the loan. This
component has a base cost of US$47.9 million and shows an economic return
of 492 (paras. 3.29-3.32). The periodic maintenance component (US$18.4
million) was based on established engineering standards for surface
improvements (specific quantities per km per year) and sealings (every five
years). Its benefits are obvious as it prevents substantially higher costs
associated with road deterioration and consequent need for rehabilitation.
The equipment rehabilitation program (US$4.0 million) will extend the
economic life of each unit and postpone purchases of new equipment. The
rehabilitation cost of each unit of equipment does not exceed 40z of its
replacement cost, with the average cost at 2$?, which guarantees a minimum
rate of return of 12X and yields an average return of 17%.
3.29     The economic analysis of the rehabilitation component was carried
out using the Highway Design and Maintenance 1odel. The sections to be
rehabilitated were divided into links considered homogeneous in terms of
traffic levels and physical condition. For each link, traffic was
projected based on historical trends and expected population and production
growth in the region. Using engineering data and climatic conditions, as
well as traffic characteristics and cost parameters, the model simulated
the operating conditions for each link and calculated total vehicle
operating costs. The following options were examined by the model for each
road: (a) carrying out minimum maintenance at a cost of US$250 per km;



- 21 -
(b) carrying out minimum maintenance plus all required patching. The
patching cost varies according to the thickness of the road surface:
US$8.67/m2 for 50 mm and US$10.73/m2 for 75 mm; (c) routine maintenance
plus all patching plus sealing every 5 years or when 502 of the road
surface unravels, whichever comes first, at a cost of US$1.04/m2; (d)
overlays when road roughness reaches a predetermined level or every 10
years, at a cost estimated at US$7.57/mr  for a 50 mm thickness and
US$10.48/m2 for a 75 mm thickness; and (e) rehabilitation or reconstruction
when road roughness reaches a predetermined level. The cost of
rehabilitation and reconstruction was determined based on a preliminary
engineering study for each road link. A separate analysis was conducted
for unpaved roads to check whether they merit paving with double surface
treatment.
3.30     The Highway Design Model is designed to recommend the solution
which minimizes the net present value of the costs associated with each
solution including investment and maintenance costs and vehicle operating
costs. The higher the traffic level, the more rapid is the deterioratWon
in road condition, and the more likely is a higher-cost investment
alternative. The analynles resulted in the following recommended solutions:
for the 1,300 km analyzed, 250 km merit only minimum maintenance because of
low actual and projected traffic. Of the 834 km included in the project,
408 km justify overlays, 400 km justify rehabilitation, and 26 km of
unpaved roads merit paving.
3.31     The estimated cost and economic rate of return for each road link
are included in Table 9. The rates of return are based on comparing the
cost and benefits of the proposed solution with the second-best
alternative. A minimum rate of return of 12% was required for any road
rehabilitation project to be included in the program. As the tables
demonstrate, the rates of return vary from 14? to over 100X. The weighted
economic return is 49? for the roads included in the project and 362 for
the five-year rehabilitation program as a whole. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that, before undertAking any investment, the Bank's
approval will be sought if final engineering for any road link results in
cost estimates exceeding the original estimate by more than 25? in dollar
terms.
3.32     The above analysis underestimates the true economic benefits of
the road rehabilitation program because it does not quantify the additional
benefits to be derived from increased tourism activity or production due to
lower transport cost compared to the second-best alternative. It also does
not take into account the time savings accruing to passengers of private
vehicles with the increase in vehicle speed.
3.33     In the section San-Cristobal-Bani (32 km), where the traffic is
5,600 vehicles per day, a climbing lane (3.2 km long) is justified and has
been included in the program. On the other hand, the analysis showed that
completing a fourth lane in the section Pedro Brand - Piedra Blanca (42.5
km) of the mainr highway from Santo Domingo to Santiago is not justified at
the present 1evel of 9,000 vehicles per day (four lanes already exist for
the first 22 km leading north from Santo Domingo where traffic is heaviest
at 20,000 vehicles per day, and a climbing lane exists for the section
under study). The economic rate of return on widening the Pedro Brand -
Piedra Blanca section to four lanes at a cost of US$565,000 per km yields
a 1.52 return, so the project has been excluded from the program.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Execution
(a) General
4.01     The project should be carried out in about t:tree years, from the
second half of 1991 through end 1994 (Chart II). SEOPC will act as the
executing agency. General administrative coordination and relations with
the Bank will be provided by the project administrative unit within the
Department for Administration of External Resources (DARE), which was
established under the previous Bank loan and reports directly to the
Secretary of Public Works. SEOPC has appointed a qualified candidate,
acceptable to the Bank, to serve as project coordinator. Responsibility
for the preparation and execution of specific project components will be
delegated by the Secretary of Public Works to the General Directorates of
Highways (DGC), Maintenance (DGM), Supervision of Works (DGSFO). Land
Transport (DGTT), and Planning and Programming (DGPP), as has been the
practice in previous Bank-financed projects in the Dominican Republic.
(b) Civil Works
(i)    Highway ReLabilitation
4.02     Engineering designs for the civil works component will be the
responsibility of the General Directorate of Highways (DGC) within SEOPC,
while supervision of implementation will be in the hands of the General
Directorate for Supervision of Works (DGSFO). The SEOPC now has acceptable
experience in procurement of civil works, but is short of experienced
engineers and qualified field technicians. To ensure proper management and
timely monitoring and supervision of the project's civil works and road
maintenance component, SEOPC will retain consultants with funding provided
under the loan. Preparation of final engineering and bidding documents and
final cost estimates for the repaving and rehabilitation works of some 300
kilometers of roads scheduled to be contracted in the first year (1992),
was completed by SEOPC, with consultants' assistance. As part of the
implementation program agreed during negotiations, engineering design for
the second year of the project should be ready by end-1991 and for the
third year by end-1992. Funding for consultants to assist in this work is
included under the loan.
4.03     To expedite project execution, civil works contracts should be
packaged to comprise up to 100 kilometers of road works that would be
grouped, wherever possible, according to their geographical lvcation to
facilitate contractors' logistic support activities. A list of tentative
packages is provided in Table 10.
4.04     To ensure adequate quality of civil works, all roads to be
rehabilitated will be supervised by engineering consultants funded under
the project. They will ensure compliance with design specification and
report any delay in execution as well as propose on-site solutions in case
of unforeseen difficulties. They will submit quarterly progress reports.
4.05     To monitor progress of the project, SEOPC would send quarterly
reports to the Bank showing: (a) an updated listing of eligible road
projects; (b) progress on implementation of all civil works contracts and



- 23 -
other project components including latest cost estimates; (c) the status of
loan disbursements against forecasts: (d) the amount of counterpart funds
allocated to the project in the fiscal year against the armount actually
spent; and (e) the actual road maintenance budget for the' preceding year.
the budget allocated for the current Year and physical progress of the
maintenance plan for the year.
(ii)   Periodic Road Maintenance
4.06     Overall responsibility for carrying out the road maintenance
component will be vested with the General Directorate of Maintenance (DGM).
It will carry out the routine maintenance as well as 752 of the periodic
maintenance. All other periodic maintenance will be carried out by
contract. A single contractor will be selected and put in charge of all
surface improvements and sealings included in the periodic maintenance
program for the first two years (1992-93) as well as the technical
assistance component related to paving technology (para. 4.12). This
contractor will have to be able to carry out the entire process of
resurfacing, from the manufacture of asphalt products to the execution of
works.
(iii) Equipment Purchase and Rehabilitation
4.07     Acquisition of equipment and spare parts will be controlled by the
DGM, which is responsible for all the vehicle fleet. Rehabilitation of all
equipment will be done by private suppliers' workshops under DOM's
supervision. Equipment for the axle-weight control program will be
installed under the supervision of the General Directorate of Land
Transport (DGTT).
(iv) Technical Assistance Program
4.08     The responsibility for the various components will be as follows:
i)    training equipment operators - DGM
(ii)   pavement technology and surface treatments - DGM
(iii)  road maintenance management - DGM
(iv)   rural road inventory - DGM
(v)    engineering designs for proposed highways - DGC
(vi)   urban transport study - a steering committee chaired
by DGPP with representation of Presidencia and the
Municipality of Santo Domingo.
(vii)  construction industry study - DGPP
B. Procurement
4.09     Procurement will be carried out in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Civil works contracts for road reconstruction,
rehabilitation, repaving and periodic maintenance will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB), except for periodic maintenance
contracts of up to US$1.5 million, which will be awarded under local
competitive bidding (LCB). A certain amount of periodic maintenance (US$
5.8 million), which will not be financed by the Bank, will be carried out
by force account. Contracts for the rehabilitation of equipment will be
awarded under ICB, except contracts not exceeding US$100,000, which will be
awarded under local competitive bidding procedures. The appraisal mission
reviewed LCB procedures and found them acceptable. Contracts for spare



- 24 _
parts for equipment repairs and rehabilitation, and materials for road
signs and markings, will be awarded through ICB, except for items costing
US$25,000 or less, and aggregating no more than US$1.3 million, which could
be purchased using local shopping. Local competitive bidding procedures
will be acceptable for the workshcps building reconstruction (US$1.5
million) and the bridge rehabilitation program (US$1.4 million), because
the works are small (no workshop will cost more than US$0.5 million) and
are unlikely to attract international bidders. All contracts under ICB, as
well as the first two contracts for civil works and for equipment under
LCB, will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
4.10     A11 civil works and equipment contracts to be procured under ICB
will follow the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
Credits, May 1985". Bidding documents for civil works will follow the
Bank's 'Sample Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, Inter-American
Development Bank, The World Bank, September 1985". Equipment purchases
will be in accordance with the Bank's "Sample Bidding Documents,
Procurement of Goods, The Wforld Bank. Inter-American Development Bank,
March 1986". All consultancy contracts financed under the loan would be
procured following the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency, August
1981" and 'Sample Form of Contract for Consultants' Services, The World
Bank, March 1989".
4.11     Prequalification of civil works contractors is essential to the
bidding process and would be based on criteria which can be defined with
more precision in terms of minimum working capital, professional
experience, volume and scope of similar works. These and other criteria
would be specified by SEOPC in the prequalification documents and all
contractors (foreign and local) interested in being prequalified will be
evaluated on the basis of "meet or not meet" evaluation criteria"; that is,
only those complying with the minimum criteria would be qualified. As
stated in para. 2.33, the existing document for prequalification was
modified in consultations with the Bank and is now satisfactory. The
prequalification criteria to be used will be determined by SEOPC depending
on,
(a) The contractors' experience necessary to implement the
project as engineered and costed. Contractors would have to
submit satisfactory proof of having successfully completed,
during the last three years, road works whose annual physical
quantities and cost were similar to the annual costs required
for the project for which the contractors wish to be
prequalified. Each contractor would need to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Government and the Bank Lhat the
contractor has: (i) competent key personnel that would be
assigned to the project. and (ii) the necessary basic
equipment, be it owned and/or rented.
(b) Cash flow requirements. The cash flow requirements to
satisfactorily complete the works on schedule should be
determined by SEOPC based on the works schedule and the
quantity take-off of materials to be placed in the works,
estimated by the project engineer. Interested contractors
would be required to submit satisfactory proof of having



- 25 -
adequate working capital (liquid assets less liquid
liabilities) and/or available bank credit (to be certified by
a bank), to cover peak annual cashi flow needed for the works
bid on.
4.12     The major contract for providing the technical assistance for road
pavement technology and resurfacing (para. 4.06) will require a contractor
who has substantial experience in all these areas. Obviously, only major
international firms will be able to mount an adequate training team,
mobilize all the required equipment, and oossess the know-how for the
technology transfer. Such international contractors are unlikely to be
interested unless the TA contract is accompanied by a substantial civil
works contract. Also, the value of the technical assistance will be
limited if it is not done in the context of a long-term on-site training
program. Thus, the technical assistance contract will be combined with the
civil works contract for all 7 'riodic maintenance works for 1992 and 1993
and with a 142-km package of /iad rehabilitation works, giving the total
package an estimated val-- -f approximately US$18 million.
4.13     The following table shows the distribution of the type of
procurement appropriate for the acquisition of works, goods and services
under the project. The figures in brackets refer to loan financing.
Additional details are provided in Table 13.
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
ICB       LCB       Other    Total
A. Road Rehabilitation            59.2                           59.2
(41.4)                         (41.4)
B. Periodic Maintenance          12.1        4.5       5.8       22.4
(7.9)     (3.1)     (0.0)    (11.0)
C. Bridge Rehabilitation                     1.7                  1.7
(1.3)               (1.3)
D. Workshop Reconstruction                   1.9                  1.9
(1.4)               (1.4)
E. Equipment                       9.4       4.5       1.3       15.2
(9.1)     (4.3)     (1-3)    (1&.7)
F. Supervision of Works                                4.6        4.6
(3.2)     (3.2)
G. Technical Assistance                                6.0        6.0
(6.0)     (6.0)
TOTAL                      80.7       12.6      17.7    111.0
(58.4)    (10.1)    (10.5)    (79.0)
Amounts include all contingencies



C. Disbursements
4.14     Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
eligible expenditures: (a) 702 of total expenditures for civil works for
road rehabilitation and paving and engineering services for supervision of
such works; (b) 70? of total expenditures for periodic road maintenance
until disbursements reach US$7 million: 60? until disbursements reach US$10
million; and 50o thereafter; (c) 70% of total expenditures for
reconstruction of workshops; (d) OOZ of foreign expenditures and 902 of
local expenditures for purchase of equipment and spare parts and materials
for markings and signaling; (e) 75? of total expenditures for equipment
rehabilitation by contract; and (f) 10OZ of the cost for technical
assistance. The declining share of financing under (b) above is to achieve
an increasing participation by SEOPC in financing periodic maintenance
works.
4.15     The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 14.  The
Government's aim is to substantially complete the project by the end of
1994, and the implementation schedule has been developed on this basis.
Experience shows, however, that some slippage is likely. The Third
Reconstruction Project, Loan 2609-DO. will take five years to disburse
compared to the four years originally estimated. The estimated
disbursement profile adopted extends disbursements through mid-1995. The
project closing date is December 31, 1995.
4.16     Past experience with Special Accounts in the Dominican Republic
has not been favorable. The accounts have been operating only in local
currency and SEOPC has been unable tc use the account to pay for foreign
exchange obligatioas. Agreement was reached during negotiations on a
modality which, will allow the Special Account to operate in foreign currecy
and a Special Account in the amount of US$8 million will be established
under the Loan. Items costing up to USS25,000 for equipment, spare parts
and road signs, and US$100,000 for civil works will be submitted to the
Bank using Statements of Expenditures.
D. Audits
4.17     All records relating to project expenditures will be kept by the
project administration unit within DARE (para. 4.01). In previous Bank
loans, project expenditures have been audited by ii-dependent private
auditors, and these audit reports have generally been submitted on
schedule. The audits have contained no qualifications. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that SEOPC will have its records of
project expenditures. Statements of Expenditures and Special Account
audited in accordance with appropriate principles applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be submitted no later than
five months after the end of each fiscal year.
E. Monitoring
4.18     The requirement for annual updating of the Five-Year Highway
Investment Program (para. 3.04) and the requirement to report on the road
maintenance budget and actual expenditures (para. 3.08), will provide an
opportunity to monitor the success in achieving the project's objectives.



- a-1 -
In addition, the consultants supervising the execution of civil works will
produce quarterly reports on the progress of each contract. Finally, SEOPC
will submit to the Bank a quarterly progress report describing the progress
of each of the loan components (para. 4.05).
F. Environmental Impact
4.19     SEOPC was authorized by Law No. 123, dated Hay 10, 1971 to
establish a Department for the Control of Earth Excavation (DCCT). DCCT
has regional representatives in ;.intiago, San Pedro de Macoris and Azua
responsible for the monitoring of environmental pollution in the northern,
eastern and the southern parts of the country, respectively. DCCT is
entrusted with protecting the ecology and environment through prevention of
indiscriminate excavation. The responsibility of DCCT is to regulate
excavation permits to prevent indiscriminate excavation and destruction of
agricultural areas, beaches, and rivers; to document environmental
implications of every request for excavation; and to monitor earth
excavation works after permits are issued and stop excavation works which
are improperly executed and impose fines on violators. DCCT is well
organi d and capable of carrying out the tasks under its responsibility.
The present limiting fuctor on DCCT activities is the lack of logistic
support. The proposed project includes funds to purchase needed equipment.
4.20     The DCCT is staffed with well qualified and dedicated
professionals capable of carrying out their programmed assignments.
Permanent higher staff is composed of three environmental specialists who
have been trained in major European and Asian countries. Specialists
required in other technical disciplines needed to complement DCCT's
environmental work are recruited from other government departments on an
as-needed basis.
4.21     The civil works under the project involve the rehabilitation of
the existing infrastructure and will not affect adversely the quality of
environmental or ecological systems. The works are designed to improve the
roads' drainage, their rolling surfaces, and to protect the roads' slopes
against erosion. The resulting reduction of heavy stop-and-go traffic will
reduce emissions associated with long idling times and repeated
acceleration; improve fuel economy; reduce rolling noise and vibrations;
and control sedimentation that might result from erosion and create a
potential for water pollution. Documents for all civil works contracts
customarily include a provision which obliges the co1itractors to dispose
properly of all debris and pollutants.
G.  Project Risks
4.22     This is the fifth Bank-financed road rehabilitation project in the
Dominican Republican and it has been prepared based on the experience
gained in the previous projects. The main obstacle to bringing the highway
network to acceptable standards has been a weak maintenance organization.
A maintenance management system installed under the previous Bank loans has
not been properly implemented. If this is allowed to continue, the major
effort put into rehabilitation in recent years will be partially wasted.
It is to minimize this risk that proposed project focuses on implementation
of a thorough maintenance program. The initial five-year plan has been



- 28 -
drawn up and agreed on. Further agreements were reached during
negotiations on the resources to be allocated to maintenance, improvements
in budget procedures to ensure that allocated resources end up in
maintenance activities, and strengthening of the maintenance organization
both at the central level and in the field. Finally, consultants will be
recruited to overview and assist in the implementation of the road
maintenance plan.
4.23     The second risk emanates from institutional constraints that can
retard project implementation. The lack of sufficient engineers to prepare
the final engineering designs could cause possible delays in preparation of
bid documents and project completion. To reduce this risk, the project
includes a provision for private engineering firms to carry out a major
part of the engineering designs. Also. the bidding documents for a major
contract involving all periodic maintenance, technical assistance in paving
and some rehabilitation works would be ready by negotiations, thus enabling
a quick start for the project. Finally, the stricter criteria for pre-
qualification of contractors will ensure that the selected firms are
capable of completing the works on schedule.
4.24     The high turnover of staff within the SEOPC requires repetition of
training programs and threatens the institutional improvement program.
However, this issue cannot be fully resolved within the proposed project,
since it is part of the Government's overall policy in regard to public
sector compensation. As long as salaries remain low, departure of staff to
the private sector will continue, with negative impact on project
execution. The extensive training programs, including overseas, funded
under the project provide some incentives to SEOPC staff to remain on the
job.
4.25     Availability of government funds could potentially become an issue
if the Government has to embark on a major budget expenditure reduction
program. However, the level of government support required under the
agreed five-year investment plan is in line with total government support
to the road sector in the past. With the completion of several large
projects undertaken by the Government in recent years, total local funding
for the sector could be reduced while still carrying out the agreed
investment plan. It should be noted, however, that Government funding for
the ongoing Bank project has not been an issue and that the Government will
commit itself under the loan to provide the specific amount of local
contribution to the project on a year-by-year basis.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01     Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) SEOPC will submit by December 31, 1991 a plan on organization
and administration of personnel for DGM detailing the
positions assigned to road maintenance and their costs (para.
2.08);
(b)  Funds allocated for road maintenance will be provided
promptly to the DGM (para. 2.09);



- 29 -
Ic) The price of diesel and gasoline will be maintained at a
level to cover at least their CIF cost - Santo Domingo (para.
2.25);
td) The Borrower will take all actions to ensure that the costs
of road maintenance are borne by road users (para. 2.25);
(e) The revised prequalification document, agreed during
negotiations, will be used to prequalify all contractors
under the project (pars. 2.34);
(f) SEOPC will carry out the 1992-96 Highway Investment Program
according to the list of roads agreed on with the Bank and
included in the document "Programa de Rehabilitacidn de
Carreteras 1902-96". Any modification or addition of other
roads will be done only after obtaining the Bank's approval
(para. 3.04);
tg) The 1992-96 Highway Investment Program, as agreed with the
Bank, will be updated annually and presented to the Bank by
September 30 of each year (para. 3.04);
(h)  SEOPC will implement the 1992-96 Highway Maintenance Program
as detailed in the document "Programa de Mantenimiento de
Carreteras 1992-96" and the Government will allocate the
funds necessary to implement this program (para. 3.08);
(i) SEOPC will present to the Bank, by September 30 of each year,
a satisfactory updating of the road maintenance budget for
the next fiscal year, and by March 31 of each year will
report to the Bank the actual budget, by category of
expenditures, spent for maintenance in the preceding fiscal
year (para. 3.08);
(j) The Government will earmark the counterpart funds needed for
the project for 1992-94, (para. 3.27) as follows:
1992 - US$10.5 million equivalent.
1993 - US$10.7 million equivalent.
1994 - US$10.8 million equivalent.
(k) SEOPC will request the Bank's approval before contracting any
investment under the project if final engineering estimates
exceed the original cost estimate by more than 25Z in US
dollar terms (para. 3.31).
5.02     An action program will be agreed on with SEOPC to improve its
institutional structure, expedite project execution, and expand planning
capacity.   It will include:
(a) adding an engineer and an assistant engineer to DGM's
planning unit by December 31, 1991 (para. 2.09);
(b) nominating an engineer in charge of highway maintenance in
each of the DGM's 21 sub-districts by December 31, 1991
(para. 2.09);



- 30 -
(c) creating a separate planning and control unit for rural roads
within DGM by December 31, 1991 (para. 2.10);
(d) transferring the responsibility of traffic counts to the
General Directorate for Planning and Programming by December
31, 1991 and providing sufficient staff to carry out this
task (para. 2.15);
(e) purchasing portable scale for vehicle weight control and
placing them in operation by December 31, 1991 (para. 2.18);
(f) creating a superintendency for workshops by December 31, 1991
and staffing it adequately (para. 3.10)
(g) creating an equipment management unit within DGM by December
31, 1991, and staffing it adequately (para. 3.11):
(h) completing engineering designs for roads to be started in
1993 by December 31, 1991 and for roads to be started in
1994, by December 31, 1992 (para. 4.02); and
(i) submitting quarterly reports to the Bank (on March 31, June
30, September 30 ard December 31) showing: (a) an updated
list of eligible road projects; (b) progress in
implementation of all civil works contracts and other project
components including latest cost estimates; (c) the status of
loan disbursements against forecast; (d) the amount of
counterpart funds allocated to the project in the fiscal year
and the amount actually spent; and (e) the actual road
maintenance budget for the preceding year, the budget
allocated for the current year and physical progress of the
maintenance plan for the year (para. 4.05).
Recommendation
5.03     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$79 million equivalent on the terms and conditions set out in chapters
I-IV of this report.



DOMINtCAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I                          PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITURES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ( RDS 000 )
YEAR              MIN. OF TRANSPORT   PRESIDENCIA    TOTAL ROAD            AS A X OF       EXTERNAL            DECERRALIZED    TOTAL SECTOR       As A x Of
ROAD EXPENSE        ROAD EXPENSE    EXPENDITURE          PUBLIC EXPENSE  RESOURCCS           AGENCIES        EXPENDITURES       FUBLIC EXPESE
...---          .... .. .. ................... .................................... .............. ............................. ...... ........... ....... ............. .. .............................. ........ ......... .......... ..___ 
1980              88,400            17,400           105,800                 10            10,400            1t,600            133,800                13
1981             109.100            14,10W            123,200                11            24,300            28.100            175.600                16
1982              96,800            10,500           107,300                 10            29,100            25,70             162,100                16
1983             109,930            14,700           124,600                 10            33,200            29,800           187,600                 16
1984             111,600            15,700           127.300                 10            25,700            41,600            194,600                15
1985             153,600            29,200           182,800                 10            42,900            50,500           276,200                 1S
1986             156,500            39,200           195,700                  9            65.500            51,900           313,100                 14
1987             116,900           183,600           300,500                  9            37,800            65,90            404,200                 12
1988             145,300           305,700           451,000                  9            4,000             77,600           S72,600                 12
1989*               N.A.              N.A.           588.600                N.A.           40,000              N.A.           628.600                N.A.
* estfimted
Source : Informe de Ejecucion Presupuuestaria 1980-88, Secretariado Tecnfce de la Presidencie.
*                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II



OOUINCAN REPtSUC
FIFTH RWD REMILITATION AND MAIEANCE PROJECT
Road Notw4rit by   of Road*and Suetaco
Primarx                       RogeloneaI                            Local
Slrtace                       o     X of                  X d        X of                      X of          of                  Share
Laent  Pavsd/npav. Prim.      Length  PawedAmpv,.  PR8.           Length   Poved/Unpew.   Local     TOTAL      in total
Comen             so       12.1     6.9          0        0          0       C                 0.6        0.3         101          2.0
Aphalt           s6e       65.5   68.9         622        OS.2      35.7          21C         22.1       13.6        1.728        84.9
Treat_mnt         20        2.4     1.9        489        J4.8      19.1          754         77.4       46.3        1,213        24.0
Subtotal Pavid    an      100.0   74.7       1.261       100.0      54.6          964        100.0       62.4        8.037        61.5
Grael              0        0       0          274        40.1      11.9          268         56.2       16.1          5          II.8
mm4raaula r        0        0       0          m3        4J.6       14.5           90         18.0        5.6         428          6.6    I
Earth              0        0       0           n         1.8        3.           106         23.2        6.7         lt2          8.7   U'
Subtotal Unpaved    0       0       0          6"        100.0      20.7          476        100.0       30.6       1.162         28.6
Raeenatuclen    2 m         -      25.8        366        -         15.6          100         -          7.0          78          14.9
TOTAL        1073         -      21.7      2,3          -         4.            1,61        -           1.7        4,5         100.0
Souees  lrscclid General de Plaalflael6m y togrommc4  de Iaverel..o, SEOPC, April 191.
PHt



DOINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHA8ILITATION ANSD kMA    CE PROJECT
Road Network by District and Surfac. Tv..
(in ha)
CENRAL                           SATIACO                          LA VEGA                           AZA                TOTAL
Suartao       Primary Reional Local Total   Primry Regional Local Total   Primary Regional Local Totel  Primry Rgional Local  Toal
Comat            s8      0       6      so       a        0       0      08       O       0       0      0        0       0       0       0      101
LAhplt          81?     6o      8s    428       104     289      44     414      1       208 . 64    NO          158     276      79     515    I'm
Treatment         0    207    254    461          0     1"      228     37         0      48     147    190       20      6o     124     204    1,212
Subtotal  Pavd  350      5 m   291    922       167      9      27       's      106    251    2        56       178     388     208     710    a.03
Orael             0     tO      49     145        0     125     114    289         0      18      68    76         0      89      58      97      5S7
NIsnOalar         0     e6      52    187         0      64       0      64        0      72      17    69         0      92      21     118      423
Earth            0      22      is      40        0       6       0       6        0       0      27    27         0      89      6      107      192
Subtotl U"pved 0    2081    119    U2            0     217     114   3S1          0      eS     107    192        0     170     147    8U7   1.162
Recoestruction  60    101        0     161       62      66      44     161      149      6S     C5    261         0     143      11    154        n?t   "
TOTAL           410    S79     416   1405       229     669     480    1828      2S5    898      86s  1011       178     61     6S1    110       4984
 of District   29.2  41.2   29.6  100.0    17.2   50.4   82.4  100.0    26.2   86.9   85.9  100.0    16.0   54.7   80.8  100.0
X of TOTAL                              28.5                             26.9                            20.6                             24.1   100.0
Source: Oireccl6n Oe_rrl de Plaaiticaela y Programetin  e Inoveri.ans, SEOPC, April I 11.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 34 
Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Evolution of the Motor Vechicle Fleet
Grand                Cars                                  Buses        Jeeps
Year     Total      Total    Private   Public      Trucks    Private   Public
1970      57520      36438    21062      15376      18657        289       837     1299
1971      68595      43089    25800      17289      22497        416       890     1703
1972      75213      50635    32136      18499      22268        303       737     1270
1973      85224      54594    33833      20761      26045        543       942     3100
1974      91283      66159.   43934      22225      21312        593      1202     2017
1975     109032      69336    46542      22794      35680        637      1289     2090
1976     117972      74563    51820      22743      39125        810      1205     2269
1977     126825      82741    56715      26026      39493        779      1532     2280
1978     139005      87817    61577      26240      46160        949      1513     2566
1979     136569      p7906    62932      24974      43899        669      1846     2249
1980     129796      78543    61457      17086      45591        781      2518     2363
1981     164189    102255    84910       17345      55149        993      3324     2468
1982     157843      95111    78853      16258      55670       1037      3426     2599
1983     153178      88880    73873      15007      56758       1365      3449     2726
1984     170123    101979    87389       14590      58508       3515      3221     2900
1985     163273      98795    83043      15752      54919       2779      3731     3049
1986     182530    110269    94517       15752      59406       4619      3731     4505
1987     199241    117386   101634       15752      65732       7252      3725     5146
Note:    "Private" cars are vehicles with private license plates; "public" are those
15censed for commercial transport.
Source:  Direcoi6n General de Planificacion y Programaci6n de Inversiones. SEOPCO
April 1991.



- 35 -
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel
(millons of gallons)
Year                       Gasoline                      Diesel
1980                        108.5                         126.6
1981                         97.2                         133.8
1982                         97.0                         124.0
1983                        101.5                         131.5
1984                        109.4                         146.6
1985                        110.9                         116.4
1986                        135.4                         151.9
1987                        164.1                         194.2
1988                        183.5                         211.9
1989                        196.3                         212.0
Sourcet Shell Company (W.I.) L.T.D.



- 36 -
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Prices in Relation to Overall Inflation
Price    Gasoline   Gasoline   Diesel      Diesel
Year        Index       Price    in 1979      Price    in 1979
1979-100    RD$/Gal    Prices    RD$/Gal    Prices
1979        100.0        1.46      1.46      0.73       0.73
1980        116.9        2.39      2.04      0.86       0.74
1981        125.6        2.39      1.90      0.86       0.68
1982        135.1        2.39      1.77      0.86       0.64
1983        144.5        2.39      1.65      0.86       0.60
1984        179.8        2.70      1.50      1.32       0.73
1985        247.3        3.87      1.56      3.81       1.54
1986        271.4        3.24      1.19      2.82       1.04
1987        314.6        3.05      0.97      2.50       0.79
1988        454.3        3.60      0.79      2.50       0.55
1989        660.7        4.20      0.64      2.50       0.38
Sourcess   International Finacial Statistics, IMF, 1979-1987 and World Bank
estimates 1988-90 and Ministerio de Industria y Comercio,
resoluciones 1/79 -10/89.



- 37 -
Table 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD USER CHARGES AND COST
(RD$ million)
Item                      1985      1986       1987      1988       1989ga
User Charges
Vehicle Registration Fees        13.8      14.9       62.3      30.7       40.0
Road Tolls                        2.5       2.8        3.4       3.7        4.0
Traffic Tickets                   0.5       0.5        1.0       1.0        1.0
Vehicle Transfer Fees             0.5        0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7
Driving Licenses                  0.1        0.1       0.2       0.1        0.2
Fuel Taxes                      131.3     218.2       89.0      15.2      -31.9
Total Charges               148.7     237.2      156.6      51.4       14.0
Costs
Road Maintenance-actual          30.6      31.8       23.3      38.1       48.5
Road Maintenance - optimal        n.a       n.a        n.a       n.a       75.0
Road Construction               162.7     208.8      292.4     423.4        n.a
SEOPC overlead                   22.4      11.4       19.2      18.5        n.a
Total Costs                  215.7     252.0      334.9     480.0        n.a
&/ Estimated
Sources: Ministerio de Finanzas, Departamento de Estudios Econdmicos and
Informe de Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria 1985 - 19a8, Secretariado T4cnico
de la Presidencia.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTN ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Traffle Distrlbution Among Prlncloal Ports 1987-89
(metric Tons)
Year         Total       8arehona  Cabo Rojo   La Romans         Maine       P.Plata   S. P. Mac    S. Dgo.        B.Chice
196?
I"port      5.882,196           -          s6       28,891    4,242,629          993      268,706      n2s,8n2       82,189
Export      1 407 406      49 S4       279.482     444 794       4438838      28.218       54.US4      _16.20        925694
!',V89,01     74,85       279,616      1UIU       i;i0ii6         29         813,368      788,840      174,788
Import      5,597,681           -       6,172        2t489    4,856,466      429,977      208,688      496,770      108,152
Export      1 810 994      74.61C      001.010     415 419       480,972      568789       96 674       22 716      107.049
74',5   615    lS 417I7859    4,788,488           488,71         6 ,207  B10,201
1969
import      7,762,880      17,289           -        5,812    6,482,985      448,398      215,497    659,169         88,885
Export      2 286 860    108 671       780.548       2 287       997 826     116,248       97 706      179. 76       6e.702
100874        120,91       70,V 7  i5              7U,48U0,2*                 818g aa,202  7I83         14,617
24,196,052    i4-4,7     1,628,248     394,142  16,002,580   1,077,61         R1,72    1,997,290        Ur,60
Shere       100.0          1.0          6.7          8.7         89.8         4.5           3.8          8.8         2.2
(in 3)
Source: Dominican Port Authority
II



TLY    a     MUMIAurc*  ANDwgu TIA      rcw
$06D 3tUBKL1?ATIO AM tEOaUUC?OV 16O06   992 - 19963
FIRS? WAI (1992) 93063dM,~~~(M    "to) O
Yearly                Read Lar.Wb
tode                  toed Smelt..         ea          pht Vldtb  Serf.   13?           Pr.o.ed         ID1)   on9          laprovasst Coot   Yeakr to  I            ltuve,tom1l            c.epotedllar
fin)  foae) ?2pe    (vjd)         Zapvovaet                            fti.   scan  Ii   Coetiset ,    1992  1991  1994  1995        1992  1995  199  1995
tA * CIVIl Waite
90120    $ojee de fbia  . Sen Cristob.al             9.5    7.5   AC    6,491 AC Overlay. 75 a             117.0  65.5      9.4     6.6     5.7       1910     5.1   3.3                   9.3
019010     rA C C,. 0.22 - Ciuce C.Mieac              6.9    6.0   AC    3.291 Dbablutetica, AC           03.0  15.7      5.7     4.7     3.7       1992      3.9   1.6                  6.9
019010   (,VW. 0.001 * Cgm. 0.023                     1.9    6.0   AC    3.191 Rehabilitation,. AC         303.0    6.6     1.4     1.1     1.0       1992      1.0   0.4                  1.6
0CO0b     San Cristoabl - Deal                      32.6    7.5   AC    1.620 t.b.bilitertioo  AC           95.5  199.9   64.3   55.2   43,2           1992    1942 45.0                   3.3  29.3
02309     Cowlt.. - Lfas tow",                       5.6    6.0   DST    1.32t iocoastmctUco. AC            89.2    7.9     5.7     4.7     3.7       1992     4.1   1.6                   5.6
20901    Crete C.021 - Los Coareas.                  0.0    7.0  06?T   1,364 Robablltutimo. AC             64.3   23.4     6.3     5.1     4.1       1992     4.5   3.5                   $.0
023160    Lee Cases. * CaseS                         13. 7    6.0  06?    1.32) l.eoustractlow.7AC          07.2  20.9   13.9    11.5       9.2       1992     9.8   4.1                  13.7
*19040    crw. c.cAows - sna lraa.sl. ue aroia   32.9    6.9   AC    3.291 Z.babiitaticu. AC                78.0  M5.9   10.6       8.6     7.0       1992     7.4   3.3                  12.
039050    Cruce C.DJara  - Cia.. C.Ceaayl            6.4    6.8   AC    .3291 Rtehbiblitation. AC           70 0   17.6    5.3      4.3     3.5       1992     3.7   1.6                   6.4
002070    Beas - C. gam Jo". de at".                16.6    7.2   AC    2.706 AC Overlay, 40 -              73,7  33.6      8.2     6.6     5.5       1992     6.0   3.3                  16.6
80602    ML Doeque - 3era                            9.7    6.0  135        676 RBsubiLiftsttco, DST        22.9    7.      4.7     3.9     3.1       1992     3.3   1.4                   9.7
00201     Bast* USmAvq  - SalI. do Vslus             3.7   13.0  PCC   29,912 Rdhabllitatleo, FM                            3.0                       1992      1.6                        3.7
00301     Baa.. 0m5aqe - Boca ChICs                 28.2   34.0  PCC   10.515 lahs1kiitstloe. PM                           31.5                       1992     4.1   7.4                  10.1  18.1
utobtal .1,1 wrk                         153.4                                                                  147.0                               72.7  7o.9                 109.0  47.4
is - CIvL. sverb & Technical hAsistance contract far ?4ecbaela Trasfer. in Ibis Asphbalt Co.ereto Overloy. mad Serf... Vioetaats
06530    La lIais  - U Deeqe                         8.7   .1.   DST        676 At Owerlay, 40 an          105.    9.2      4.1     3.3     2.7       A99      .35   1.6                   6.7
30501     La bomb  -                                 3owa  .0    6.1   Mr?  640 AC Overlay. 40 gm           86.0    4.6     3.6     1.4     1.2       l992      1.0   0.6                  3.6
310030    Ciuco 0.1.l.., d. *v" - C.lder..            4.7    7.3   AC    1.607 AC Overlay. 40               66".0    4.7    2.9     2.5     3.9       1992            2.9                        4.7
02903     Ci... C.Cose..ao.s . Lea 514.14.           12.0    6.0   DST      783 AC  venrly. LOs             6 1.6    6.5    4.3     3.7     1.9       199      3.7   1.6                  33.0
013110   OCtui - Cause C.Piao,t.l                    3.1    4.3   AC    2.204 AC Over1*y. 40 as             57.5    3.7     1.6     1.2     1.0        MI9    1.0   0.6                    3.1
0009      Ci... C.S.ftedo "actub - Iag.Cousuel.    6.2    7.0   AC    2,597 AC Overloy. 40 ua               54.2   11t.5    4.1      .5     3.        1992           4.3                         6.2
00408     5.h&ow MaecrI - Cm". JI.Padre Macail    4.2    7.0   AC    9.597 AC Overlay, 40 as               52.1    6.6     2.9     2.5     2.0       3992           2.9                         4.2
510020    Zo   Ireala - Ci... Ojoluaw de Coos        1.3    7.5   AC    1.401 AC OWerl. 40 -                49.9    7.3     4.5     3.7     3.1       1992           4.3                         7.3
02120    Crag. C.V1oaeol - PSeatlao                 17.5    6.3   AC    2.204 AC Overly. 40 as              49.4   19.3     9.0     7.4     6.1       1992     5.3   3.5                  17.5
023130    rateo  a   Rican                          0.5    6.3   AC    1.20  AC Overlay. 40 as             49.0   11.2    5.3      4.5     J.7       1992     3.3   2.0                  39.5
00502     Deo= - Lo lain.                            6.5    6.1  98?        526 AC Ovorla. 40 -             46.6    4.0     1.1     2.5     1.0       1992           3.                         6.5
029060    Leo 3daftoo - La Liabel                   10.7    M.   PB        7M  AC Ovorisy, 40 as            46.3    5.6     4.9     4.1     5.3       1992           4.9                        30.7
00wn8     Cia.. C.BSaf Jose do COo. - Ann           31.3    1.2   AC    1,031 AC OverLay, 40 us             33.2   13.0    10.0   14.7   12.3         1992          160.2                       51.3
003190    "to"a DSablb. -  .Wooel Tama              15.9    6.3   AC    1.739 AC OFVerlY. 40 as             31.3    6.4     8.0     6.6     5.5       1992           8.0                        15.9
sab-total 11erb. 6  .A.                  142.4                                                                   74.7                               15.6  59.1                 55.6  06.6
pivot Tear tftal                         297.6                                                                  222.5                               98.4 154.1                 163.6 134.2        '
*  Ibi aselpai asw ""et" ueoia  tb. rate of owsebhB  of US$1.0   D$3303.0
A*-Avo-v  ft"? ?"Sties  SIR-Sammia Rate of Return$  mm-ftt present Value$  mlr-olp  fteb-ol~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~** I-
At-Aopwt Cowtual  OST4kble gort"a Tnateml  TeePortlead Comeft Cmavat



wouncoau INuIL
Ro  82 IIf uzr             uktD m      PROJECT
a046 mmumm uUm  Da.c              m nano  (1092 - i96
VWIA (1993)                                                                           dll
Code                 foo Soot ,.                 Ltb Vldb  Sad.   At                pvopomd         306(2)  37?        lrove_m  Coot  l*oa to          *      wott.                Cmat1.tou
(kw  tab) Ty"        ol)        Zp                                 fitn 1.   geo   FE  Coatrct   1992  3995  3994  339        192 199 194 M        1995
01320   VII lDall13 - La bm                       10.5   6.4   UT?   1.231 AC Oer1ay. 50             153.4  S3.0    9.6    6.2    6.3         1993           5.9   .9                13.3  7.4
003210   Sa,ate. - Sonatuao                       83.5   7.S   AC   4.719 *C Ove.y. 95                64.5  75.9   21.9   37.4   14.9          1993         13.1  0.0                 12.9  8.6
993070   $.Pmdro MboosI. * fte.Uo, Scca           9.7   7.0   AC   S.61 ? C Overlay. S                62.3  18.0    7.0    6.3    5.3         1099           4.7  3.1                  5.6  3.0
10501  lUtK      - Ot<t am"                       6.2   6.2   AC    175 2t9 abllltatl. AC              0.6  10.1    5.1    4.3    3.5         1993           1.6  3.7                  0.6  5.6
001230 GOa.ae - #1. VA""s                         42.6   7.5   AC       90 AC Ootl1y. 40  .           57.6  70.3   24.0   19.7   16.4         1993          14.3  9.6                 23.6  17.0
Ot1660   Sot.pa  - Datq                           10.4   2.6  D6T   1,045 fteogruentt. DSt            55.9  13.0   10.0    0.2    6.6         1993           5.9  4.1                 10.4
0os00    Pt..  s lSo. - Lo Boom                   23.2   t.0   AC   3.617 AC Ov.rnlq  sOw             54.6  36.2 36.0   13.4   12.7           1993          11.3  7.6                 13.9  9.3
130020    U Kto  * Impt.                          0.6   5.0  osr        10 tbabUtttt  AC              53.2  10.1    6.6    5.1    4.3         3995           4.7  2.0                 4.6  4.0
0e303e   Lo DaI&Toe - en" I                        5.3   6.6    5    1.045 bcoasttLoo DST             51.6   5.5    3.9    3.1    2.5         1993           2.3  1.6                  5.3
023350   Cn.c C.CcMo   * Ct.. C.001                3.3   6.3   AC   2.335 AC Overlay. 40 -            50.1   4.2    3.6    1.6    1.2         3993           1.0  0.6                  3.3
105020   Ott        e lod. * Los 1*l.e           S.0   6.4   6T        590 Bababilltatt    C         46.3   2.7    3.1    2.5    2.0         1993           0.0  2.0                 3.0
023140   R1S. - Cn99. C.Coutroba                  10.3   6.3   AC   2,355 AC O.rley. 40               4*1.?  10.7    5.9    4.9    4.1        1393           3.5  2.5                 10.s
130010   Crac C..t.aSa. - U1 btrecbo              1.0   6.0  DST       B20 3eballUtati. AC            41.5  15.0   12.3   10.2    8.2         3903           0.6  3.7                 7.5  7.5
013070   eat., &md" - ea. Kwo                      9.6   5.5  96 1,04I   k4. emu tt    95t            41.5   7.S    7.2    5.9    4.7          1993          4.3  2.9                  9.6 
0o3090   Cn. AUt" de O., - Acec.S.Bibe            13.9   7.0   AC    1.759  .babUtatlea. AC           40.2  15.2   10.9    9.0    7.4          103           7.6  3.3                  7.0  7.0    gb
023040     ute W.. -                               1ora.  3.5   6.5   AC  552 RhablUtatm. 6?          55.2   0.6    0.6    0.6    0.4         1993           0.4  0.4                  1.6          0
033030   Lo Somb& * Tom".                         14.9   6.0   s?    "47 AC Otrly.. 50 a             34.9   6.6   11.5    9.4    7.6         393            7.0  4.5                 14.9
036020   fin 4 "nu" (uSatxe) -  unraawa            2.7   6.6  DSt   1.04S 9ommucto. 66?               29.5   1.3    2.0    1.6    1.4          1993          1.2  1.0                  2.7
O01050   ht* cora - Soatapma                       3.9   6.0 D?   1.045 1*co..ttem. 66?               27.1   2.0    3.9    2.0    2.5          103           2.3  1.6                  3.9
036040   Steg.I -  l. tkwd                        11.9   6.0   AC    1.045 _ntootctl    6?            231.4   2.2    6.6    5.       4.7       1093          5.1  3.5        1    1     .9
0l0170   Sm*1.g  - fti.e                         20.3   7.3  VC    7.944 blblilUtatlms PMC                           9.0                      199           5.3  S.7                 20.1
0W010   Crmc CA.00  - Et. pn. Plate               43.1   7.2  PMC    .940 tebabilSiatlem. ICC                        23.7                      1995         30.0  31.7                20.0 23.1
oea=$ To" in"                          300.6                                                              206.6                                  121.0  06.0               206.6  4.2
l1n.
o i



IIIUMe         nt 6933U?0*9 c    6 ~
amosNtuAto   D moorsc1   900t"a - 1004)
0W$ mIlll9 '
vIs 11104 NOM.
Code                 low  9401.t.qtbb it d.   *3?    _                                  b0960            =a)  of9          t.w.bot Coot  lost to  I                Ive.1oO_
(b)  (ate) TM        (via        Iro'oasM                             Fla.   to"   PR  cmtrat    s 3992  92  I39   3999            399  399   99  39
@40040   lIII. VgleT . "- $*Joe&                     1.0   6.6   Ur?    "0a 3b.buitoto An                 40.0   4.5    5.)    4.3    2.5           1994                3.7  1.6                   t.0
064ll9    "  c 1mm.1t* - Sao. warp                17.?   7.0   AC    l.62 tS*bsU      l"UtI. AC        32.S  26.0   21.9   17.6   14.?            309                 13.1  6.6                  5.3  12.4
lZtlO Otn bar&  _ $MM-                             20.0   6.4   3?        1II AC Ouerul. 50 4m            36.9 I1.2   16.0   11.1   10.6            394. 11.3  4.t                                19.6  6.4
04101    Cne C.S.Jot Ocee * $.Jo" am               #2.1   6.1   AC        65 AC Oeotlq. so an             36.4  11.4   15.1   32.5    0.0           3994                10.6  4.5                 U36   7.6
M0s"O S0 .. ?4  coot _        .003                  14.    7.00   AC    It"* g.eAshIllt"G. AC             34.6  14.4    1.6   18.l   10.4           394                 9.6  6.S                   4.4  10.)
0400      *orwaa  - #UI   V                        S.? .7   6.6   AC     130 IabbUlhttio. AC              31.6   2.6    4.3      1       2.t      1294                 2.9   1.2                  5.?
02820   Bam,o . ta  coo                             9.9   6.4 m5           I AC Overls.1   Sois     _       .1    S.0    S.?    4.7    3.1         1399                  3.5   .J                  9.9
02300   Bero     . - De                             4.1   5.5   AC        230 Pavio on?                   30.2   3.0    1.6    1.4    1.2           34                   1.2   0.6                 4.1
004320    8bt*  _s    - U 60,3                      22.3   6.    AC         0 eO  obtlUtttim              29.2  15.1   23.2   20.9   16.6          I39                  17.6  1.6                13.6  6.?
2090     lAt osts.. - Cm... U COle                  6.5    1.0  057       106   bobUitstloo. AC    2S.31   2.3    6.              5.5    4.1       1394                 4.1   2.t                  6.6
6060     D3. Ai. - U   ooro,e                        6.0   1.0  3Wn        40 pmig. DST                   2?.?   2.6    6.4    1.0    4.3           194                 5.3   3J                   8.0
0105    Toe". - CW                                  16.9   6.0   AC e,091 AC 3:fOt ?. SO in               27.3   1.2   3M.S   31.3    9.2           1994                9.4   4.1                 13.2   57
033630   Vms. - Dg  Jos                             13.9   S.1 t33        24n Piog. DSt                   26.1   4.4   14.9  03.3    9.0            1994                9.0   5.9                 13.9
064130  tl 5.p3- U   ot9 "                          132.3   6.)   AC      532 AC CoTlO. 50 a              26.0   2.t    6.6    5.*5    C.           19                  4.1  2.9                  32.3
023000    e    war" - *ml"ee                         8.2   6.0  06        239 9*Oem,w. a oat!.            25.1   2.6    6.6       7.0     .5J       1994                 5.1 3 3.                   .2
004l0     u.Ceoselo - $otsy cmmuseet.                0.6    1.0   AC   I36   3.b.bUkibo. AC 95 _          25.3   3.0   30.6    6.6    7.4           IM                   1.6  3.2                   0.0
Imp-em   e w        IsThe. NOVO                    20.1   6.2   o         106? 20 3obiLhgottem. 36        22.0   3.0   13.1   10.6    6.6          1994                 9.3   3.9                 14.9  6.2 *
Tbird Tow TM"                            233.6                                                                103.                                           129.2 .64.5              136.2  5r.s   1
10513. 163 IlNaWI                        634.0                                                                622.4                              68.4 255.1 215.2 *4.5  U6J.6 3".    .4 5M.5
0TI
:90



-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                 p       o    to*cm          4SSt'tqo,     l_tV moUtj XA
o.w *18 nS  14 et  --a oIoYg
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*    s*                                                                                                           12d     -n4 * wue  {xsi.t   e-, e1.
so    SIX     (qo              s.t  -   "&-    mu  m    *mtm
s11                         *gV, s"-a   - See- "Ws*   *tot#
o      O s             ewe SuZb        n - hnds* e         OSO
1              O's     lt                     .o. so-  *n _    .me    * s et
IP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                    l e-st              e-nv                  - ecnfws    oeo
09               9    clt                     I -O,a -   WmT" 
44!       re      ro; sn          re    g;s           ass  wsi.siflpn.g *s              *-9   *II                    Or'0 ,            - OS'#so   eOwi
est            Olt    nltt                 "Iefr         - gg-s *-*    eteg
eoolt          s19    91151: sal& eM*    n                       n 960U     *6ow
Otht           $Is 9-5t             tels  90   Im     -p " gtt           owl
Con            elt ssot   * t t    w - emi  n esem
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 Oto i' 9 -o                                                                        t  1    atom
*t'                          tSt                                t'i9t           Olt     CO     0 l                                n       O            *-6t %l                     evo"s         J f       oot
Ot-                        VI       *      -     t              tlt    $-t       M-  9-0  -e rt              V    atsest vRs  u   t v    Ot    slipnow                                         "ats    090
011tg                                                %66   -      C     ist   vlt   Olst   slo t             m- laws t'aaa "IX"" UgJSt  An   1-9    9t6                         In'4         - WVt OM      901
OIC             n0                         n      n             cszt  1, t t10          Al        t              e-t t nu -OG 3v itrtetl   V    $9     9              "T11I   %- O-bX VWl,A U   Ctl nte
e-s                        919                          I U6tI   I-t's          ole 6s  s o    e-t                   m   *blll"-  Ott    am   9-S    S                             ma    in -   sms    owne
9,$            t              et                     $66        e'      910     6ti t          slt                ft n1 "  *-v e t It-t nt *u9  Stt6   * 00    sn'  9-*t  -                      I I I'ws  o1
t' 9t                -Ot                              MI* t -tt    Is  - 9t  Vt- 93                          VW fno-etq"o  *to           ON"* ttt'                           JWXT   t-1 9-e nn * Q=u     4 ontwe
$-st                       S-9t                      se6    '    lt r-u   9 *-St        $I9t   slit nn               t 14- ' Z          amt  t  Olt   r-n                           t        rt -as" e    eotm
clog                       V91                      $t rt   -eg  6-n0           t-f -t -e 2 t"  flog    t                       si  S-S0 *-19    clot                                          -  t-so  > ettte
tfft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "sot 94,161 goo  $6t net                                                                           *-9t _66                        tt -V ti  3t to)Cal
mm amommo 4m mouun I 0 am amm
or emB aso



-43 -                                                         Table 10
Page 1 of 3
nIM  ROKm  R     ILISAUR m t0  MDMIIO
RIOD R BLSSUStA        AM  CWOSTUCTIOU ROOM   1991.1998)
LSiNG 0o  RO   w0w  CONRAC
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .... .,.,,, ...   ....... ....... .......  .  .  . ..   . .....------
Coat
COattct              Road Section             Requr  Vorlk        Leatb      II B3 sa
Code                                                            (kw)    MULen1   wod.
... .  ........ _....................................... .........
Civil Works 2 Technical Asuistnec Contract for Tacbhnoloy Trasfer
In Pave_entc & tW   Asphalt Conereto Overlays
...................... ......................................_.____._.................. __._______ ______.
DA'      La  lus-l  Sesque              AC Overlay. 40 am          8.7        4.1      1993
La Bo.ba.-u_amun               AC Overlay, 40 o            3.8       1.8       1992
'/C  Palesr Oco&-Calderae      AC Overlay, 40 am           4.7       2.9       1992
C/C Ouayacaos.aidalgne         AC Overlay, 40 so          12.0       4.3       1992
cotuS-CIC PImntel              AC Overlay. 40 o            3.1       1.6       1992
C/C s.H.ns    . Con_alo        AC Overlayr, 40              .2       4.S       1992
J P. maIcleo.ClC S.P.M.        AC OveClay. 40 _            4.2       2.9       1992
Z.7reacaClC Plamar Ocoa        AC Overlay. 40 e            7.3       4.3       1992
C/C Pimentel-laatSao           AC Overlay. 40 m           17.S       9.0       1992
paatino.SSacoa                 AC Overlay. 40 on          10.5       5.2       1992
Gum-La Luila                   AC Overly. 40 an            6.3       3.1       1992
Los Sidalgos.La Isabela        AC OveGlY. 40 an           10.7       4.9       1992
C/C San lose Ocoa-Aaua         AC Sverlay. 40 on          31.5      18.0       1992
Baysibe-S.R. *um               AC Overlay. 40 so          13.9       8.0       1992
_._. __________________________________________ .. . ... ._ _ . __ . _ _ __
Total eontret *A                                  142.*       74.7
as*      Sto.Dowingo-Rajos gall          Rehabilutatti, PCC         3.7        1.6      1992
Sto.Doingo-Soce Chics          Robabilitatioa, PC         28.2      11.5       1992
____.____________.....................____.________..._________._____,_________...
Total Coatract *'e                                 31.9       13.1
*C       Sanatiago-Ravarrete             Rehabilitation. FCC       20.,        9.0      1993
C/C 001-tat.Puerto Pute        Rebabilitation. PCC        43.1      21.7       1993
__*....___..... ___... _*__________................................._.__..................
Total Contract 'C'                                 63.4       30.7
*0'      REjos Belm-S. Cristobal         AC Overly. 75 on           9.3        8.4      1992
Sa Crietobal-Uat RebabUltation                            52.6      44.3       1992
sea-C/C San Joe Oeos           AC Overlay. 40 on          16.6       8.2       1992
_____________.  __.._... _.. _... _._.............. _._________._____._..._..___._._....
Toal Coatratt '0'                                  58.5       80.9
%I
'8       C/C 023-C/C Riscon              Rehabilitation, AC         6.9        S.7      1992
C/C 001-C/C 025                 Rebabilitation. AC         1.8       1.4       1992
CIC Cano"-S P Haeori.           Rehabilitatton. AC        12.9      10.6       1992
C/C Rlneon.ClC Ceovi            Rehabilitation, AC         6.4       3.3       1992
.........................................................................
Total Contract O's                                  28.0      23.1



- 44 -                                                      Table 10
Page 2 of 3
Kw8  ISAM1&TZON0 MI 224U6!9.UCICU  IoCIm  (1#93.1994)
usuao  on u  VS Como
fleOee.nfe...flf...f.f.fln, ....._ ....._
Co r t              Road Seotion            tqir"d  oork       Lengtb h     4      aei
64.4                                                          (km.)    van"u      Veb
__|................................ ._..... _....... 
or      Cowoee4a  Cue                  toe.aa"tr. AC            5.4        5.7      1992
CIe o-n-U   Guaar             Robabilitatte. AC            8       4.3      1992
La CROW4otul                  14ce1stsutt. AC          13.7      13.9      1992
a  sesque-sor"Wa             t*ebabtattou, DST           9.7       4.7      1992
_ .  __ .. ._ ......... . . ....... .........
Tatel Contract Or                                  37       30.7
no0      VIa Kllas.L, Seek             AC Ovarly. 50             18.J       9.8      1993
woot. Pla64orewg               3.habllitatibo. MT?       1.5       0.8      1993
La  e_a-Taas"                 AC Overlay. So 5          14.9      11.5      1993
Total Camrat e6                                  34.9        2.1
SW      Vvarrt*4QY*Yaom"               AC OveraY. 95 _          21.3       21.9      1993
410 0014kt.ftn.   P1tt        AC Ovegay. 40_m           42.6      24.0      1993
===_,,,,,,,,,, .  .......... .. .  ..... ....................... .,. ...._ _._
tota  Cootrat MP,                                44.1       43.9
ada                      I             R.aotalui. UT              S.3       3.9      199l
At*Sy A-Uta.krad. ba          Racoostruatton. DST        9.8       7.2      1993
It  4 CowrUels4breaduro       Baotoutt6tioo, DST         2.7       2.0      1993
TM" Corda.Out:aaoal           aos:zottt.. DST           3.9       3.9      1993
eteay I-Pun, Coxd             fleouast tiu.t DST        11.9       4.4      1993
Guaep.ltery Am                eaaltaotioo. De?         10.4      10.0      1995
Total Cotract  fl'                                 44       3S.6
ago      EL 3Btfeokat4lprou            fabltuttioo. 3             9.4       6.6      1993
CIC Altamirca4  Zutrebo       e bliblttb . AC            is      12.3      1993
Total Cootr:t *I*                                24.6       18.8
OL       9 P  sers-ftws Soa.           AC Overlay. sO u           9.7       7.8       M3
IU.y.Oir  0.34. 8obab.Ltottem, AC                       6.2        5.1      1993
Peame 6oco-a Ran"             AC Overly. SO m           23.2      18.8      1993
0ev. sa bod       btaus"      Reabuit:tb . AG             3       3.1      1993
Ebiree,ayah"a                  ob atiO.C                13.9      10.9      1993
total C5ragt *LO                                    56      4S.7
qp        /c4 Certrba-ctc del          3.babiUaeiu. AC           3.3       1.8      1993
3imemIC ernedrob              AC O"lay. 40 o            10.3       3.9      1993
Stl Cmera"t 96                                    13.6   7-.



- 45 -                                                      Table 10
Page 3 of 3
DXmmCm iUSL
ItM  RgO4D RUtIlA IT W AD Mt t&V C  PR85S
RAD  BSIUSAT     AID MM 32 STUC=UOAM (1982-1996)
LISUtlNC Of R    VMOIS CGPSt
.... .... _,,_. _. _. _....................._.................
cost
Contract            Roed Section           Required Werk.     Length    RD$       54814
Code                                                        (isa)    Million    Yoik
"an     Otto Unds-Savaro              AC Overley, *0 o           2S      16.0      1994
Solids 8ipey-CJC 003         Rebhbilitation. AC       14.7      15.8      1994
Bavare-Punto Ca"             AC Overlay, 50 o          9.9       5.7      1994
Total Contract '6"                              52.6      37.5
*on     Satey Conuelite-8 Mayor       Rehabilitation. A        17.7      21.       1994
Haeo Iayor-l Cybo            Rehabilitation.          22.3      23.2      1094
1i Coyboe1g Plntado          AC Overlay, 0 mm         12.S       6.6      1994
I. ConueoloS Coneuclito      Rahab.. AC 95 o           6.6      10.6      1994
Totol Contraet "0"                              61.1      63.9
Ups    SSaba" do Ia mar-bague         Rehabilitation. DSt      20.7      13.1      1994
Total Contract Up                               20.7      13.1
''     dCC Oca - San Joe  de Ocea  AC overlay, 50 to         26.1      15.1      1994
26.1     15.1
'1'     Villa Tapia.Salcede           Rehabilitation. AC        7.8       5.3      1994
Rarranca-Villa tepia         Rehabilitatio, AC         5.7       4.S      1994
Guarans-CIC La Cuiea         Rehabilitation, AC        8.5       6.8      1994
Tetol Centrac "R'                               22.0      16.4
"'     eBoronga-Beys                  Paving, DST               4.1       1.6      1994
DOn Juan-EJl Bosque          Paving, DST               6.0       8.4      1994
teOce Catui                  AC Overlay. 50 VA        18.9      13.3      1994
aesa.Don Juan                Paving, DST              13.9      14.9      1904
Oene NeriCeovic*s            Rccenetr. & Overlay       8.2       8.6      1994
Total Contract "5"                              55.1      47.1
Total Contracts "A' through "S"               1189.9    622.2 0
A t the rate of oechge of USS1.O * RD813.0



- 46 -                                            Table 11
DEICAB IEPUBL1C
F1FTH R050 ND  BMil"ISTATI01 U   VA1NSTZE  PROMT
mm   owS   MOa   (1992 - 1996)
._.______._ ...................................._.__..... _________s____...................I.............................. _ ._ .. ... _*
gatSated Coat
Locatiou                    Type    Laetgth   Vdth   Spne           ttu oe
(t)      (a)     (..)   (306)    (18$)
'Coronel'. Bareboa-Padernales ha        Steel True.    62.0       7.9      1.0      0.9      0.1
"OuayubIn'. Guyubin - Copey BDy         Steel Trues    62.0       6.3      1.0      0.9      0.1
'La. Carrer"', Da"  tu  a"y             Steel Truce    152.3      4.3      4.0      4.4      0.3
'Lue, DUia, Sau CriatobWl-Dani WY   Steel Truss    62.0           7.9      1.0      4.4      0.3
'Sll. Vista". (Santiago). over          Stoel Truse     92.0      7.0      3.0      0.9      0.1
Taque del Norte River
Rieo Beto'. Carrera Ramon Santtea.      Stoel Trues     97.2      5.0      1.0      1.7      0.1
S.P. de taorie - Cruae Guerrero
'Guayubn'. Over Yque del horte          Steel Truss   121.4       7.9      3.0      1.7       0.1
River ner Guyubti
'io  Soco", S.P. de MtacoriaLa Romena   Steol Trusas   341.0      6.5      4.0      3.3      0.3
Esttaated Total Cost                                                          18.2       1.4
Excbsge lates US$1 * 2DS13.0



C4
E-0
14 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 4C
0  I 'D    a       .0       C~~4        Vs       N              
I    0  I    o     I        I
*                          0                          -  a    4    *        S           I
a                                                                        N.
*  S      04104                                                             504~~~~~~~1
I       I           I.   .                                                                    
I  8  4                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a    -  I    *04  I    4                         04       04           104~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



- 48 -                                                            Tabl 13
sgomcau ganmic
VIMt  RMA  RBI3AILtTATION ME !AtIMWLC  13R310
Ctimw3       "                  3C9M    MS   otm ON
.... .... . ......................................... ...... .  ...._ . ......
etIvIt7                          tee       UllB             MAE srL     tex   Ce Le              S"L
. ................................ .......................... ,  ._...._.............
(RD$ million)          a              (05  .llS.)
&. Road  2.hbilitation                                                          I
..,,_............ ............                                             a
Read IbcnctvKtioS & Raebilltiou   430.2             0.0      0.0    430.2 a    3.1        0.0      0.0      33.1
RepaOVIS                                 332.5      0.0      0.0    $32.5 a    26.1        0.0      0.0      26.1
.  .,., ............................,__. ._........... ____t___....................... _____.______........................ . ....... _.
Total (A)                      762.7       0.0      0.0    762.7       59.2      0.0       0.0     39.2
a.   erioedlc road maintenance               137.2     SS.3      75.4    291.1 a    12.1       4.5      3.0      22.4
C. arBddgs                                     0.0     22.1       0.0     22.1        0.0      1.7      0.0       1.7
3. Vrk.bop    building reconstruction          0.0     24.6       0.0     24.6 a    0.0        1.9      0.0       1.9
2. LSipmnt                                                                     t
uSpa.nt rehabilitation by contract    0.0          29.9       0.0     29.9       0.0       2.3      0.0       2.3
Equip"at rebabiitation-aspare parts    29.9         0.0      0.0      29.9       2.3       0.0      0.0       2.3
lurch... of =wnra                          9.1      0.0      0.0       9.1 S     0.7       0.0      0.0       0.7
spare parts operation.                    72.9     44.1      0.0    117.0        3.6       3.4      Q.6      9.0
R**4 slga  and markings                    6.5      1.4      0.0       7.9 a     0.5       0.1      0.0       0.6
Ale weight control - equipant              0.0      2.6       0.0      2.6 a     0.0       0.2      0.0       0.2
hvrea...tal protection - equipmet          1.4      0.0      0.0       1.4       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.1
==._._.__.__._.,........................................ __._.______._...............................__._......._. __._._......-
total (C)                      119.7      78.0      0.0    197.7 S      9.2      6.0       0.0     15.2
1.  Supervtin of civil work.                   0.0      0.0      59.9     59.9        0.0      0.0      4.6       4.6
O. TS Sb.Aa.tace for trainLng,                                                 I
SlaerStl g & Supervision                                                  S
... .. __ .. __.............                                               I
Traincn   qulput operators                 0.0      0.0       5.1      5.1 a    0.0        0.0      0.4       0.4
Pavsemnt tebcaoloay transfer               0.0      0.0     37.6      37.6 a    0.0        0.0      2.9       2.9
Management of roed maintenanc                                              a
ad 580WC equipmnt park                    0.0      0.0     13.0      13.0 a    0.0        0.0      1.0       1.0
Updatin  rural road. tinvntory             0.0      0.0      2.6       2.6 a     0.0       0.0      0.2       0.2
Preparation of .igtaring                                                   I
for propcood 3-year program               0.0      0.0      7.9       7.9 a    0.0        0.0      0.6      0.6
rban Trandfortation Stu4y                  0.0      0.0       7.7      7.7 t     0.0       0.0      0.6       0.6
Cnatctica Srduatry atudy                   0.0      0.0       1.4      1.4 a     0.0       0.0      0.1       0.1
Training and scolarships                   0.0      0.0       2.6      2.6 a    0.0        0.0      0.2       0.2
---.--......_...
Total (a)                        0.0       0.0     77.1      77.8       0.0      0.0       6.0      6.0
Total (A,B,C,D.E.P S 0)       1039.7    163.2    213.1  1,436.0        $ 80.5   14.1      16.4    111.0
-____ ...-....._................-.................................._._ _
(0) Maui. imeliade all contingecies
_mban  lAte USI * RD$13.0



- 49 -                          Table 14
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(FY 1992 - FY 1995)
RD$ million / (US$ million)
Disbursement/               Cumulative
Semester                Semester                 Disbursements
FY/92
Jun 1992            74.1     (5.7)             74.1     (5.7)
FY/93
Dec 1992           127.4     (9.8)            201.5    (15.5)
Jun 1993           149.5    (11.5)            351.0    (27.0)
FY/94
Dec 1993           163.9    (12.6)            514.9    (39.6)
Jun 1994           170.4    (13.1)            685.2    (52.7)
Fy/95
Dec 1994           170.2    (13.1)            855.4    (65.8)
Jun 1995           171.6    (13.2)           1027.0    (79.0)
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
Sources Mission Estimates
Exchange Rate US$1 - RD$13.0



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Maintenance
Highway Network
1.       The highways network under the responsibility of SEOPC totals
about 4,935 km of which 3,037 km (61.5? of the network) are paved, 1,162 km
(23.6? of the network) are not paved and 736 Km (14.9? of the network) are
under construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation. This network is
divided functionally into three categories: Trunk roads (primary network),
regional (secondary network) and local (tertiary network). They -are,
respectively, 21.9?, 46.22 and 31.9Z of the entire network. Mairntenance of
-:his network is carried out by the General Directorate of Maintenance
iDGM). Description of DGM can be found in Annex 4.
Planning and Budgeting
2.       Maintenance planning is not practiced.  Traditionally, the data
for budget preparation has been generate4 in DGM, with very little
quantitative input from the field operating units. The budget format is
very general and is not based on any measure of expected work performance.
Each year the budget submission represents a percentage increase over the
previous year, but with little assessment of what funds are really required
for each maintenance function.
3.       In addition to the unsatisfactory budget process, the release and
allocation of funds is a continuing problem. The figures officially
approved in the budget and the final allocation of funds to maintenance
differ substantially. The funds for maintenance remain at the Secretary's
disposition and can be allocated to carry out construction works and works
on urban or rural roads that do not belong to the SEOPC network. The lack
of the essential link between planned work and actual funding makes fiscal
management very difficult. This, coupled with delays in releasing of funds
from the National Budget Office, prevents the districts froip planning their
work properly. SEOPC fiscal financial management consists of assigning
funds to meet the most urgent demands without following established budget
procedures and without keeping adequate records. This produces an
additional difficulty in evaluating how much is really allocated to road
maintenance.
4.       The amounts spent by the end of the year are frequently above the
approved maintenance budget. Table 1 shows the programmed and actually
spent budgets for maintenance from 1983 to 1987. The table shows the large
differences between those figures and the dramatic decrease of the
maintenance budget between 1986 and 1987. This decrease is due to the
dismissal of about 6000 out of 12000 people from the maintenance forces and
the corresponding decrease in the budget allocation for materials and



- 51 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
equipment. These facts caused maintenance levels to deteriorate
significantly and so far have not recovered in real terms. The figures
corresponding to the budgets proposed by DGM, approved by the Government
and actually spent by DGM in 1988 and 1989 are the followingt
Year       Proposed ($RD)       Approved (SRD)      Spent ($RD)
1988       83,381,152           25,'91,000          37,820,000
1989       64,444,339           30,000,000          48,510,805
5.       In 1989, given an exchange rate of 6.35$RD per US dollar, the
average expenditure on highway maintenance was over US$1500 per km. This
is adequate for routine maintenance alone, but not enough to cover periodic
maintenance. In addition, we must take into account that the funds spent
for maintenance serve to pay about 6000 people who appear as DGM employees,
although only around 3500 people are actually working on maintenance works.
Finally, 1988 and 1989 allocations were only about 8? of the total spent
for roads, capital and current budgets, including works on urban roads and
streets. This rate is very low and confirms the need to prepare adequate
maintenance programs and budgets and to establish an appropriate control
system.
6.       To improve maintenance planning and budgeting, one needs to
update and put into practice the maintenance management system, which was
designed with funds provided under previous Bank loans. The system will
require updating data concerning effective work force for maintenance
activities, list of equipment and condition, and highway inventory by
physical characteristics. The implementation of the maintenance management
system will provide the means to improve the budget process. The
maintenance work program will establish requirements for labor, equipment
and materials. Consequently, for the first time SEOPC will be able to
submit a highway maintenance budget based on specific types and quantities
of work to be accomplished.
Highways Maintenance Programs (1991-1996).
7.       During the appraisal process, the maintenance activities and the
parameters of the existing management system were reviewed and updated for
planning purposes and used as inputs for the system in preparing
maintenance programs for the period 1991-1996. The first maintenance
program studied was the program for 1990, for which twenty nine maintenance
activities were selected. For each activity a work measurement unit (e.g.
square meter) was assigned. The level of maintenance service to be
provided was established for what was considered a full level of
maintenance service. This 'full level" implies all maintenance
requirements except marks and signals (studied separately, see Annex 5) and
was defined by a set of quantity standards (e.g. square meters of patching
per year) with a separate standard for each activity. Quantity standards
were fixed starting from the existing system and the results of inter.iews
with SEOPC's staff at the field level. Three basic levels of quantity
standards were determined corresponding to three categories of roads.
Modifying factors to the quantity standards were introduced according to
pavement condition, surface type, climatic regions, pavement age and DGM's
policies (e.g. manual or mechanical execution). Tables 2.A and 2.B show
the quantity standards and modifying factors used to prepare the 1992



- 52 -
AMX 1
Page 3 of 4
program. Once maintenance activities were selected and the levels of
maintenance were expressed in quantity standards, annual work quantities
were determined for each maintenance activity by multiplying the quantity
standard (which quantifies the level of service), by the appropriate
inventory quantity. The amounts and types of resources required were
determined by using each maintenance activity's performance standard.
These performance standards define the activity, the daily resource
requirements, the expected daily accomplishment and the approved work
method. They will also serve to monitor the execution of the programs and
to adjust future unit costs and daily accomplishment. Annual costs for
each activity were determined by multiplying the resource quantities by
unit costs for labor, equipment and materials as determined by the
Maintenance Planning Unit (NPU).
8.       The sum of all annual activity cost is the maintenance budget.
The network length considered under maintenance in the 1990 program was
3,884 km. corresponding to the length of the total highways network less
about 736 km under reconstruction or rehabilitation in 1990. The
maintenarze work program and budget were prepared for each highway
maintena!nce *ayudantia' (sub-district divisions) and district. As a sum of
these programs, . general program and budget were prepared for the nation's
entire highway network, which is shown in Tables 3.A and 3.B (Table 3.A
shows the annual budget and Table 3.B the resources needed and available
for carryin! out the works planned by SEOPC's force account). The total
maintenance budget for 1990 is of RD$ 75.3 million, equivalent to US$9.9
million of which RD$50.S million (US$6.6 million) are for activities
considered as routine maintenance Lnd RD$24.8 million (US$3.3 million) for
activities considered as periodic maintenance. The program for 1990 is a
step forward in improving road maintenance procedures and modifying current
maintenance practices and set up a starting point for developing the
maintenance programs of the following years.
9        The program for 1991 was prepared on the same basis that the 1990
program but, including under routine maintenance the 736 km. under
reconstruction and rehabilitation in 1990. The total maintenance budget
for 1991 is RD$81.9 million, equivalent to US$10.8 million of which RD$55.6
million (US$7.3 million) are for activities of routine maintenance and
RD$26.3 million (US$3.5 million) for activities of periodic maintenance.
The program for 1991 (shown in Table 4.A, annual budget. and Table 4.B,
resources needed and available for carrying out the works planned by
SEOPC's force account) is considered satisfactory and has been proposed to
SEOPC as a basis to prepare the 1991 maintenance budget.
10.      The programs for 1992, 1993, 1994  1995 and 1996 were prepared on
the same basis as that of the 1990 and 1991 programs.  They are also based
on the assumption that a total of 1,286 km will be reconstructed or
rehabilitated during the project period at a rate of 298 km in 1992, 300 km
in 1993, 235 km in 1994, 220 km in 1995 and 233 km in 1996. It was.
estimated that highways under reconstruction or rehabilitation in the year
considered will not need neither routine nor periodic maintenance in that
year. but will need routine maintenance in the following year and periodic
maintenance after four years of the reconstruction or rehabilitation works.
Another assumption was that appropriate equipment for mechanical vegetation
control will be acquired by SEOPC in 1992 under the proposed loan, to avoid
the large expenditures on manual vegetation control. The cost for this



- 53 -                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
activity in the 1991 and 1992 programs reaches about RD$7.5 million
(US$950,000) annually, due to the high frequency of this activity, as a
consequence of the large rainfall and climatic conditions. In the 1993
maintenance program, the total cost for this activity is RD$2.5 million
(US$330,000), assuming that 65Z of vegetation control is done mechanically
(with the units acquired in 1991) and 352 is done manually. The cost of
the equipment to be acquired in 1992 is about US$600.000 (20 units at
US$30,000 each) showing that this equipment is highly profitable.
Therefore, acquisition of these units is included in this project.
11.      The results of the 1992-1996 maintenance programs are shown in
tables 5.A and B (1992); 6.A and B (1993); 7.A and B (1994); 8.A and B
(1995), and 9.A and B (1996). Tables type A show the partial budgets for
routine and periodic maintenance and the total maintenance budget for each
year. Tables type B show the resources needed and available for carrying
out the works planned by SEOPC's force account. Table 10 shows a summary
of the results of tables type A. As this project is expected to be
implemented in two phases, 1992-1994 and 1995-1996, table 10 shows the
totals for the first phase (1992-1994) and the whole period studied
(1992-1996). During the first phase (1992-1994) the total amount for
maintenance is RD$287.2 million, equivalent to US$37.8 million, of which
RD$147.0 million (US$19.3 million) are for routine maintenance, or an
average of US$1,300 per km per year, and RD$140.3 (US$18.4) are for
periodic maintenance, equivalent to US$1,240 per km per year. The length of
the network to be sealed in this phase is 804.4 km. The corresponding
figures for the total period (1992-1996) ares RD$451.3 (US$59.4 million)
for total maintenance; RD$241.9 million (US$31.8 million) for routine
maintenance, or US$1,285 per km per year; and RD$209.4 nillion (US$27.5
million) for periodic maintenance, equivalent to US$1,110 per km. per
year). The length of the network to be sealed in the entire period is
1,272 km. All these figures are considered adequate.
12.      The maintenance programs also define annual requirements of labor,
equipment and materials. The data on labor requirements is analyzed in
Annex 4 and the equipment requirements in Annex 3. However, SEOPC's own
resources are not sufficient to carry out both routine and periodic
maintenance. Therefore, most periodic maintenance will have to be carried
out by contract. Since this project includes a component for technical
assistance to improve SEOPC's technology know-how in road surface
treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays (see Annex 6), we consider
the two maintenance activities related to surface improvement (bituminous
resealing and asphalt surface preparation or improvement) the most adequate
to be contracted. Therefore, we assume that these two maintenance
activlties in the 1992 and 1993 periodic maintenance programs (at a total
cost of US$10 million) will be included in the contract for technology
transfer (see annex 6, Tables I and 2). The same two activities included
in the 1994 periodic maintenance program (at a cost of US$3.7 million) will
be carried out 702 by contract and 30g by force account (see annex 6, Table
4) under supervision of the firm which will transfer the technology in
1992-93. The same two activities in the 1995 and 1996 periodic maintenance
programs will be carried out by contract and force account in the same
proportion as the 1994 program. These works by contract in the period
1992-94, at a total cost of US$13.7 million (RD$104.0 million), will be
financed by the new project.



SEtC'.k MA I4TMAT  EAN PRQQND SPt T1j3*-1087
1988                     1994                       1905                     1960                    19T0
un0 - ______                                            _        _                  _ ______ _--
PROGRA_ED    SPPT         PROGRAMMED   SPENT        PROGRAMM       SPNT       PROCRAMMED   SPENT      PROGRAMED         PENT
C.)                        C.)                      ( )
PERSaOm.  2,227,94.0  2,221,6198.9    6,986,949.90 5,984,180.90  9,174-6189-0  12,38,945.66 12,609,104.90  12,60.104.90   9,i.oo   950,0.90
MTlERIALS  6,286,440.906  5,162,260.0   8,285,10.90 8,6s,9oo.90  7,908,77.90   6,46,195.0   8,040,00.75  8,624.232.75 2,280,9.90 2,239,6.0
RELS     4,264,216.0     8-,69s,60.90                -        6,729,778.90       -
OIL ANS
llRUCANTS    -         1,18,612.9         -      1,618,990.90     -        8,780,264.90   2,09,895.60  2,668,0.50 1,699,646.0   1,689,545.01
TIRES AND     -          32a,756.90        -        816,724.90     -          724,0.90   1,064,980.16  1,064,960.10 1,208.428.90  1,208,425.90
SATTERIES
-          230,740.0         -       867,018.90      -          401,70.0   8,650.966.02  8,568.960.02 2,680,496.00  2,688,486.00
SPARE PARTS    -         417,290.90        -       484,208.90      -           88,704.90    ,.7.         94,88."    748,54.90    748,564.90
PESOSEL      -          89,24.00          -        889,75.90      -          618.90        582,78.90    082,50.90    94,540.90    894,54.009
TOTAL EVfIP-
W            -        2,418,611.00        -      8,0U,722.90      -        0,029,712.90   9,886,481.88  9,859,18.91 6,989,660.0  6,989.660.90
TOOLS a  SC   -           48,809.0         -        771,20.90      -          084,601.90    286,28.50    686,225.90   786,224.0    785.224.0
TOTAL DIRECT
COST         -         ,967,767.90              12,89,709.90              25,164,445.00        -      20,979,910.91     -       19,1s4,790.90
PERXAL
IB   S       -        6,814,242.9         -      6,M9,844.0                6,491,6.90          -       6,69,944.90      --
OAIR. EXP. 11,662,690.90  16,2M2,090.00  12,819,769.90 16,121,118.0a 21,996,168.90 80,06s,211.00  8,929,690.90 81,771,764.9 19,166,090.90  19,1s4,790.90
IN 1061
MCES                  9,968,0 .90               6,0 ,.66                  11,455,90.90                9,0,906.90                4,875,690.90



Q~~~-onn    4i   .," ,, ,, ".}" ,,                                                          "lz       w"a We    m  l  ol l       WC      O-    -"p  l   | "u "i   vei' e"  u "1 "I    *    ug "^ wml Ian8w
ad blu c;,pg p p q saw OaM    Wg   We   WI  91-1  91              i491X13   g    WI    WI    WU            Wi   WI   W-@ m            1 U-l t1'1 i-SIl1 |                  am' I-W   U P     6|
-4go"3oopljpm  4=       U*qSo    we   WI   OSI   sr1  WhJIUI13  WCt    all    pus   wt              WCi   mitt  lov  mls  eiiu  an'i *I       e*im      uxm um NwM
*51891  slali .4 posts ass    l            we   W       we   we   W          U'    I
g4pINe  au ism sGI  el gse 0    P1 ,a* PU        WI     w-01 a                                                                                                        u1 t-Of   w-r0 I
Illa   o  143341l*  wimp puluo                                              Wii     cii     we       si      xi      mi    -a w us  wra           up ain im .Leurwu ammiti mm 
11113 Ail S-13 i JUI3'  R 111W 15501  f          elW WI W     SI   I-II  hilN113 St'        fi      151      e1      We    Ml        W    t M ll   10 15j. *1jt             33   10W Si
WI   W    I*  I 5.       Wl    Wri    all   lo  ml  .410  .411P611 SVVI   Uimw= ownI  ml u
*;i,pw in Istum  polo"s eq  u5siA   WI   WI  s W                VI fill%II  bei'luh
.QMPujsIn  -omi P"1..u  so hwi  Sam           e  *-6  011   woe  Wm  10111 S I irs           u's      Llo     WI    WI    WI    lo  tml  '.401 WIWI" Wr*im   UilE                   $1111e ii
U.*.,,b, M40.33 pultur eq An an    c reW                w     Srw   Srii we   11.   set   .J*Irn
tn       syt4iAa;; ismg piu s; diom    on wf    ' *it wet       it  wKt  wil vtrs it
2 IhIIup42I  11?Je ht?812 '..1  WeD                il  We    S Wit  WU@ 0-@"15"10121 U-t    WI       - ;1-0S @S|    - 1  sri  Wi    Wi*    e * tillM Wfm   1P'  96I'h    13    5110
I  coa loonevie"u"XI'ApAp bfMl3  4311  0-43  olis  lolls  ore  '010   " a 4      -   r     1all-lolllalllOlt    al    lop ml     IP"             grol  '    I M  M ownU
MII o           w  tI   Wwe1lo UI 1fl1                           SVIs lq i Musl m*w1mm mm &I
MAIS':110831m') dii 219*S POl suiei 13119   r     Wti   *1   III 51i WS0001psh3
*42J3 NIa 90ISS@J PIS1SIU3Pt*,4  WI e'I   WI   WI   WI   P03f4    lit   U*II    W                             WLS    WI    Wa    'DP ml 'PM  Uopip,d L 011 uIS                    11 u u
UIIIIUS ACd AMi ii WUs P006mai'ug w4*                                               Wt    all    all    n0           W8i     so's   'V  til &                p 9WI 1Mp4 ajpo im                i
p"s pub qit_ ee01l,3  i015 Gunnodiu  WIo   Wi   1WI   LVI  $ir              hlt-I1ll we    Oel    W1t1   Wl           We    S        lop til %-3 01 sflP*1 P %We   Im UlW Rin VI
ml      mli    i.S       Wit    wit Itsol5       Sp ml *idie .1.P*w     6 W  t                  -II lwn   C1
solo    Ws    Ill        6       we    all        W 2    udjtq v4Pt,*q 414s smtlam   30PU   II
IdePtP     hI13  smlqi  _ ejp4i              I   C-I   WI   WI   S-3  St- *IW1I  U|          U.S     Oll-t WI - S-l*          IIS    EC~ ta itll _Mg44  1U   '4-tl0P1-  31353 _JWEUI i
W.M4lpU2 M     10062  PiI 41,J  Pismo                                               WI IWI ali                        WI      III-C       UI-W  1111-0El-t I  lrue  .4-101 3WWIDUW3     IU tl
dLVSS  10)5* 9)31MhSWI  91d  IO I11P09 W-1  IVl   N 'I   WI   Ws  d4;eaa1d  WO    a'                 W      WI       WV    Wst *=W   l l dM01 s-'SPIN    PI tu    luMiU11 l1- to
, *nuto" AO S1 -Ji- PISI   J51  '-81 R                                                 l.s Wli'St 5I   Ilia LII  h*pl               l   o                411l ?t3IWU 11                t
;IU0U4si $".Iqt)l1m"'I'   podsm mu   IPp4  Ws*  all   WI   WsI   we  WresJ0   wo    *65               WI         i 9  49 we    wit 1 loliI " U4U   I450  at-Mt  UolitIili  5314It
J pi"u tp "    ol" U1#11f'l SC- $0"WIT VI  61304 Ce'   09-  1D' M'1b l 8 's 1,140119S        ole   l " S    all  IA |'}^  ul            W" $FAl I      o|4Ip#e S V'                      V    t
I Pall to"IPI 1Pal"  1   I1t,l    R '1     hi,            In       t -f 1013 F t 1 I 113   "ON   WAM   11            Oo             Sialo 
*dX-zr taje wpN=                                                                        Is  1 lw IL,                              Wl"1 .01010111 si"111       |a- 9el a3 "UwU |rF* wnuX
t 1 1511111  t 51          (t131UZ5 19J312 5I3        t *u3i 1  tulilAUdI    -          -13    -1 -Jol        ____3a
.                    61WJl~~UItJ ilWIN3                WUWS Ltliltlilr          _UIt tMllES          UIDlltlW        _        litlItla   32331334
13 11111111  lOI 11111d11      1 "lion      Kil UI   31U 1311 mmmi AiUU
&Ml lnnlxmi%Aweilwlmlqlllm   omiuviomwomulaw       ~     ~



iS                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
'aJ   plqmn all e1 wj hpuisauIn 0 v9 Pq3iUi 11IIJ*    SfkflbPll*hik  lbn    6l-1SI Pied 040"1l t31  901 -
,al~ ;umau el k19152 PM
qw19l i 4l146 tU1)n0 aModo  v.3an $4liiipgl@t hNIm  Inh 10100M*)  s01qlaaii OX Uahl"   'pmai on Mall-AU' NM1  00   Mlli*gnu P at) q" ml IMsaaa 310            n guow p dilnmad.
*appj  sail; ;ususi'4  s*"ll  *,    sllwi* las.-. pdt'  pae*  qaa,  isu;. pm s*iais ' unic sa  il fit ldaaja  p VA;Ufit sai e ;III lasal  guma aisi  pJita   p   "a i .
't al'8I   qaae lIt Will UUN)-t) l 11ti  lt lii lon  it   I alil A# Is  1885 litim     hwn P M "WNIt  umI     .
git  gtul)1 tiae   '  t" 1     i t    l g1" 11   w   wI;slgaaagit iimss tat aIvj  t   t  Up   * ebi-
'll lull *;"I3 UI01UUlAMt   AM pau m#Ip UP)   litlall  $I I lit l) 't PuO saw  PO 1a11 ^ k n  * 1     ePOne  nsala All SAPIN   watap " a a
iStPi  PM""" SJ'i *stlot I  p   _          piflmsb
e  lt Sai  ;ai;p t   Sm t 12 ll     2tSI 1g1 nlitla %A"N n143 11nd 9  3 .1 -1 o lUsa d1,l 0o slflhSw  Amiq eSe U 01 aV gopeaplst 1ltmb Pqtl'-  Jo flhl 01 "IN3 se An usaug ;uqs JIMa  1t
aqtsp   !pt"sd 4p     ul JU OJ   1    all dIgA &ismai '1   suaaaiu uig   "thigatu o Sa lota   t salla is ml) p; q  14.; IlmI 3   V"a xu m         MN    JO ii;1   q   aiaq  *ASa lstinq I1
lgsp   p*i0Al W131P  tAI  Ma atMl 013;W  Igas,   ) 1u0 lPif AD WU PIOw   f t IuI
stqweJ pod" mIl mima  4is1u GI ml  "gt    ( a1    g 4O g1 as N q           am   VI"  Jo WU a t au  I I st'
s  zo wfl Pa    noii     %"I""l 4151 k -  Pt < l5IP AIMan u toflWgkU Jogmp Pk"  Is   i n .3
31tlt ail PW AASI13 P"l=    6     kMA    P1111013 a  ON IM39ld  v_s  41pe  4uk  -1
____________ ____                                                                                                                          t- -                     -      
"M@ ptIAWvtpirns             1* InMlof am ; wo   WU   $$a            U   0'1   -*I el t '@01   MMl' WUZ m1 l allt  aStlsl .".  | tl'"dmavr                          P'we  n        '       10   t
usas;waai Am* r12.4w  lito tp4}  a  witN   Wei  ita. eU . Ot'  *iI s t
ai1  a,stu " d sW          4 aatin" e96t  Ws   we   WI   gal   all  ba'lbsa  mWt   WUt    WU    mU    WUt    w it                       - am  'PIAs   s'ai aWsg         mom  ssowumu ts
.~~~~~~~~~ai 'U-|  lm Olet Wel wt@  Sol el                                                                                  ..
v o? GIl                                                 en   m tmwe 's-W 'aO t ;"m m.'1 I                                                                                 lWs- 
*aui     S 0 W IP a A s  h   51 taw.  's" mwe   wille   WsI   Si   cri  kno2   It'     m       mur   oil       "IW       ,1      " n          gISN    4 Mlpg ties   |m               el
I     g.wj -  IIUP   1  OjOJOS PAM"  W'   Wi   all   Ill   Sll  k   Iil13 all              weS    WI       w I      1      81ll  Ml     W I 9-   1*  Pa1      Cr atl   luw        AD    1 tou i   s
gdt IPakuI   aaa9   uu |e   mwe   al   al  U'l   WIi  pAaig 
WUwuom3s I  gWA p  Il-atiu  21'du  Wl   Ulf   WI   UV   i'  bia';ul1g   Wo    ml*                   m't       l all  me    u's    1;S  as  ew    seraa  p  me                 gs  
II'lAMW5 pja    31g SA ap d   J1 311'Fe                                              we      w w      wtll    all    ml       NV       p 's    1       1115 *0 tof lU3  attin 111Ii u ina aI
Slim  ~ p     PapII ;alwAd ;rmndft                                                   m all    al     "la    ae    WI    We            ms =     el""  ""u     1  tle     UL       n_v         u
VIlil8olsWa o          l isUJwIqDIM    Ul                                                        als    Ulm .   ICU   0'tt "         a 'to    "'t  "P*        '       =  A mawn_   u
' ouna41s wulasq  'uila 01d                                                          WmC   W nt   W          wm        a"     UrM   lop tnl wi  an'0  ";jPhl ,hgm         w                u
I  --- MI,                                       I a  t  1 a  1a'aIsi l'1*aiI  we  m  I  WOW t 5  sI   '91  ts Ila_   sie  pg          '        u
11401   5nil                  1311U35W 9131            4UW)8515 11113u         -       -       _       -
eoo   M1U        _" ml    lx    lm   _W           liv lui  1uom 1   U
151359 111135103       UWfh   lIESw            teuwus Ulim          imaasawu                 IIWIEWL   imams11
a Awl wl ISl ia11um  531 - USam nuM VW NA115m5Una lla



foul smono mooWm to nit
1134V rsiabltaUtl blgbAO i.epm$ LI33 &   ANNUAL WORK PROGRM  AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE BUD1GET    ewik lFsam wemglatt 3.l
AKuntrsttm  MOMhu   top%   I3j 18.                                                                 190                                                            litsuaue  stub,  -n   red   83*       *3.5b
Itberbaqbs~s lubeut  alaheAuls  0.                                                         1990grawMlita   au-Pav                                                                   nd ras tOMagb  23.26 ke
m:suuuii   gtornm          0u9131131         5u~~~~   ymcM ton  6      an          moil alliS      lttE 53(3K W)              AUK.151   05 I  1,511 WLSUU            M .6 11 USE!lo 08195ww            r0I
killktot.  assoilllomwy                 bastal       mn bal btai.    tabw   Epipuat   total  6611*11                 tun   tommmu ima8t              ba ina i ht r.gO   m311          18Sf
am1111 aIfyb     flait    Salts                       Uoht   owUH                          go"atIislp   (Ml6    OM3)   0506      1530      f5all       OM01       (310       flail   sorb qet   o6il                     083*0(m
to  wm    tt"lm  8.04.0il 03 11144,   IjAtbr t        830.93   IM111.9    mI."           psLV       62.34    112.26    613.43 0606349.1  1U2562.4  0690952. 13101116.4         -
It  wm 6w m.1m)    .4  Implo e 4        9m      go           o4e316.2   04331.3   0191.1          11.z2     38.313   188.22    231.45     64.        I     &211911M181                                              3404619.5
1 6 $.gtlbouIM.sfC            e.0  laoeke   M        ~    .0.0         Ml             .9    n1 36ll.54    tw.om.&.  Lmt  .s m.is  113.0w  s.ms.                                                                               6542.4
swim5   11130101             49.0  abode be  03.5    s9.isbi          no."3      118.163     &K           L         5.8       "5         411         19      M M       SM 16.31                                               bsin.2
11 mxum  mIM                 36.6  slIer b 136.36    s,.sO,ea   tomns.    tui.n             ma            98 291.5811.1   41 .4                              M29 1152.   1"6.                                               001296.1
la  31.113.6.683now            11.1  &.aIaaSl   956      0as5o.bs-t    66,1.14    39101.141   141.64      61.8.32     44.34     19.19    621.35 625281.9  391836.6   113522.2  13135118.6 0                                   1313569.6
1 INW111K1'EI    'FOUL    12.3  ome  aso-so.5            to-.1w-b    4333.1       4311.      359.83        n         31.66     69.99    151.53   215335.   13613.7  3623.6  6541.3                                            65105.3
06  *-S010      ft03213      ILu   t.ut  rAq 499.4     qS4.sw a  9326.2    582m6.2    4135.5              49.83     3.66      69.99    M5M5  2564991.5  159359.6  355423.8  160199.1                                        t 615919.1
It9O 6133RMAvMiaim          .  11.1  Matips99.41   IPAp..                 3.33       L.O       6.35          L.O      25.33     83.66    5691.231      3.3        3.3        6.3        3.3                                          .
lim31a3  EZIICK  1353.  2.0  net.d.ba W.93    "t.410.14    13121.11   132.61    91.91                     U.N       9.0      4512q.94    541.96,     3.3  01364.1   2932.9  11311531.7                                       313.
20   IVES  .M 331013          L3.  J664.   4411.93       s.dithtb    41499.20    2499.20   113333.161      G.53   t6o.95   105.22   3699.11          3.3  2144519.2  2532212.0 5246201.2                                    $ 246790.2
22 tim36111115  .mmin .   6.A  oiad.1   431.34    la..Eetta                        419,6 494  632.413        3.53    53.91    331.13    653.00         5.3  274039.2   15311".1  42459.3         -                             424596.3
23   KWP  51311l              3.I  (Oe, a. 5335         cuvert a.   2016          151.68    119.22         .6.5     9.1.2     131.35    06.1.4       3.3   391563.3   151315.1  34156690       -                    -        3693.0
33       116113103  OJI L I6.   veget.b  4121.10    uplJba           z31.1   103,13.11  041223.313         3.33    364.22    262.52    626.35        0.3  4044406.4  2191242.11 7131459.3   1-,- 10309.3
It  $1E1vLMI043 13033    6.6  veget.b  4121.28    wIVAGut                 I.5        6.3       3.168         .33      04."9     19.15     33.22        3.3        3.3        3.         6.6                                         8.6
*9  33IN $A581331              54.6  .atday   50.13    bridep  2n2v.35    232.35    044.30                 049.1      X6."5   6RAI    245.62   33241331.6   51195.    13114.8  14913411.1                                      49634.1
66    n     l 1316 K 5363     225.61  MA.a      63.5    pa.s0.ae    6263.25   6263.25    213.36              6.43      2.25      9.63     00.13        3.5   04392.2  633429.9  144355.1                   ...                 1441355.0
it*aaoa. imas0:.                                 0 .33    eysdatla    1518.1    35108.30    58.5             3.53     25. 3  5.201  030.55             3.5  090553.4  10339101.1  03122.6                   -         -       1312521.
*  148 110W         a am561         5.6              LOa.3    atuduatla       6.3        6.3       3.33         :.33     253        3        25.3          3.3        6.3        .31        6.3                                          .
419 11611131 83300303509  .  "A.                OMIap   8.a"pisl      69.2    629.921  629.99               3.33     25.3      13.66     36.33        3.3  059623.0    61060.9  22458.3         --
-                           -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          --~I            I--                       -- -                                       VI
tal  cup    atltp  govedory      53         ai bMalsaeibis  LOWs   qsapeal   total  0i1f101.S    03605   131611101                          605.       Iau      i3611 Cat  1615.       owl61
Cad  3631                    b~~~~~~~~0it    thats  Sat    1013bbbetC.  SOaps   03360                    05)       gm)6    (M0)    13o9)           to")1   l50"9         OM)   sowb qaat   0331          5360        Imp6
13  315333  3111               0.5   ue-ba  13595.611   lmactow be    516.00       536.0     s64.5      02034.1    60.5    0152.3  04553.2   1       4.9  355091.  03595.  833496.              -                    .       633429.0
29  10111 63330K   5031.53. 11.5  emldap  8020.83    tais 3e3550.40    3550.40    3331.80t             23.31     25.33    106.26    64.40    13906.3   8916.2    6496.3  22862.2           -                              226162.2
6901111 1 1560515      04.  aSaW"    436.13    pot.11.r,11    10054.3      im00.5     32.42       053.02     25.33     39.23    214.65   113239.5   2M"3.2   4524.9  M4M2.3             -                             2(1175.8
*   11.6930106         ~~~~3.6  1am* be  590.02    teo.Oaa.ba   512.52     236.21     95.42      3121.3      035.50   04.23  03569.5  24823.9   53093.   41m04.  31125536.1   2616.2611316.2x  49690.  193235.
SI   I     1-1U 330,Sl(E  68.6  tieOa4a  4600.93    aat.dit.be   346.2       69.5       0.38        sq."       I.2        .31     n2.5      3333.4      516.       646.9    562.6  2VI.35          46.69   035369.3  13591.
62  536005516 65011'  38.3  nait o3 602.8    lows to                    33.22      560.64      5.13       35.60      03.1721   271.61    39.60    5mm1.9          93      41.    64496.6   646.53         53.16A  333903.31  446405.9
5550613903                      56aedp    6.             brIdge asa.4  2m.12.3     544        36 1.829    532        2.3       15.6     68.26 21294.    03956    4009.6  321363.0  2011.92    1231.64  233393.1  231296.1,
349.08111.695133631131 26.6   mdy    3.3         pte.u         49.1        395         33         09.31      25:.33    53.4      268.62   069641.1    MO25.    44339.4  23666.   3508.22          S1.1  23104.   M12460.1
I   15   08301 C              560   3 01163C1                     101   MILl                                                      023    q839.   13346.0      S 103062. 15333.1                      9332.3 11193.
683061  380611181(1~~~~~~~~~~~a           I     I    6E1 A2153.625I62135125465139o                                                                                                  31332.1A 331.
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



1691 ai   SI   0     91    0  6z                      11~"a2roggl  Aq OlV110gt.' 'usam"      solgi.- 8qgeM.o  ;utomsig,1 pw aqj  Is
-14131 *aal z  'nas 'flu  IPat, 'gd         in     kq    ,;ssl ag Jo      g'M   AMg 'Mgt 'MWg  asg
I                IA  IJOB                                                                                     3'3 St8   8 13B36   W116
1191    )30i~ logo 'SI 1,101301I #1010,1 '01 1181p101 a558  f18ll0J it-U'in 118,1  1S'I'3d IJIQAA    14204 Apq391slp 1i140'6g   14xk5* jS)1994sf5 jSWqen   3  l42i         U 3  SIM IUWI36
und an o lions I en""gi *L;a wids to0 to~e to lag ltas ;sSq II
Im..        S    S    48   U    I    I~~~~~~I 43   I88   1  I9   S    I    I* 61   1    I   itIs  13*1l18811I 81*U  189499"I-,   r"148m1gU                        B                         "I'1    0 
Ill   B    S    1    5    1    B    S    8    1~ ~~~ ~ Il   I    1    S    I    I    I    8        O  I S    B           I S    411       a 6841     Ill       r35'5'        IU ISIImB*US88to
10    8    68         0 88       I    a    S    S    C    B    v              a    I      as0    8    8    Su*418s  B                      *      8        I      91     sbpt"jKm 'Ig11g11 amu aMMiaUsg
U.'.  ~ ~ ~aI S    8    8                8    a    I    I    9          9    I        I    I    I    I 88        I    at   89   I    a    S    8           93*3    a    8      1       101911S1 '                 Uho ANI    to
I    I    I    I.   I    I    B    I    I    8    I1   I             I       I     I    8    8        1 8    8            a    I    I    "fl 8             II    B        Not m l  t                $"Sl1d Iowa,Qn u
*                        a             *          :    *1 a          a I  I                   a    z    aIa    a                a    a IsIaI          a    s"M rbssa gt                      3MN Idam
O    B    II 8    I              8    8    6           1   9      I    8    I    I    I    I    I    8    8    S           08               8       8 9          a(       s'ps5'eg        RmgA WAU MM u         un
S          I    I 8 8 6             8I               Is              1.8      S     08        8    S           a41   89     88       IS a-5r331    148* SH136l                                       B    U8
16   *    *    *    *    *    *    *    ,    s    u~~~~~~ gm * *           8    8                 8               an8        a    I    a    I8it 411    "'91.5'                  ]mSa Into  It
B   8   8  5    BIB           8  1   13~~~~~~~~9    8     S  I8            8  I  I  5  8   5                              988 88             I   I1   $gP'l9'gr   u 'am'u.MI                        i
an;  I    I    s    a    I    I    s    I              lit It i9a*            *    *     *    *     1                        I8II               B    a    I      tsal   aidu'     4    VW   1111ssM~u MM
89   9                                                 I I  I 3              I8       8 3           *    a    I    I    8         I       a               III               ri    *     *uim~,o I11  t
o                                                      It    . . . *         9 .    I    I    I    *    a    8    *    I    s    a    s    *        a Ia B               ,63,        a'n'43SusagOhM"          ml 
8R  a    I    I    I    I    I    B    I    It   "1   19   a    5    5    I    I    8I to                      6    611  481  6    8  1         8    B I          6OM    893W   t'(    la a          m     m      It
O    S    8    1    8    I    8    8    S    8        1~~~~~~~~ C    a    a    1    I    C    I    I    I    a    a    0    5    I ll  5         Ul r41  91       r069    am        d3m aJgs 84a
1    S    6    8    6  88  8    8    6    I    8    8~~~~~~~8 9    I    a8     a     I    I5         I    I    IS     I    I      88           8  91    131# I'll'89        infll8m       u tSISs I
1015       0    it I  8                I          a?  8      it5  1a3  1 I    I    it    1   8    I    5          8 119 atS                 n   11*31    9    8    88*33   4s       c'i   OMU1913311S11 II
6  8  8~~9  81II8                 9 Ci 1        9981*381I  I    19      116                                     I  I  a5   8  9I    m atti  6161 t    '9Iwo rig uarluu'ins818u,
~~118  8~~ 8                                    1 8 1 91                                          1                              I S    u   I 119141318              $1 ,'gs"I5l9n SIUI6IdU                  Sig
                                                                                                                                                         1 q40ga lia     nmi
I8 I 0       Iu    I   I      Ij91 1  Ius s 4     qM ;            19        86   3I6                                                              G      m 58*3i 'W2tI19                 3596gigist
is    9   it   is    #    9   191  ite  JU   191  is    s    0    6   Jo    t hI  U LUIIIU    35  1W91's 825505IWA91It
004    1   1    3   1    4   I    0    0    3  IM    a    0 86    UIIN1          64 i  iti m          I mu   Wi SUU  j           5 Immm                                       
rum~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ushtumm    h1.3     86t
~a  11tw kio                    *t  1 1111I    ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                                                tbs m.ouupvi.s3ook. W-1.7 3
Otto  hlasot lilbst  sioesaceI  26.64to                                                1991                                                           Bqawmlllq  ow-powi roomme lugo.            3 m isi
miuwnamKs   nvnmt                                          am831i  99   f311ain o   ur ns       uNIs cSIwS  alP 1631  Icate                      mmat 46 uc faccuan              mm    ant iw  umm;l             MR
Daily  kcm. butlip   3svtta3ry    88              bAoal  I         Asal   Natsajls  Labor  Eqoipoet  Id0    81  1611.AS     3689    (881431       103        howL baitCl m                     a
08  a a a E        P,gba   483uni    43its       unit   UfiIIIBs hotr hot Era"  UP9    gm$1   18103              538)3    IRMO3      3)                                       awl 809 (18  .  pnt   111)  (Ml88  (Ml1
Is  WWI3. 1,111.1'KUIII        6.4  o.ois aiS 8.51    bao'* be  313.11   11,35.11  2 -185.13            618.1    82.34    112.711   813.4311 12993.61 318119.  199141.S 1478115.1           -                            4138053.2
it 038*91 ~.I 1.F (68863m   LI0 lao-to  3186.66    ap.Iaoe30   3418.11  1#521.11   1811.17                Il.n2    29.88    188.22    237.45   362198.4  553198.81 2132W.134441 .3 ti    -              - -               3441433.3
32  S188FICA13h11.Am            461 3los-e  U1.54   tos f.3w..         212.111   21.11    I13.9            8.60    44.34    211.55    211.89        8.8   3298.8   1241.6    NWA3~                      -        -          5462.4
14  9881i88  611688313         18.8  tbhu  Is 1134.36   op.lbtd.le    118.613    768.63      16.8          8.81      5.28    69.52    84.n2         8.8   11683,1   5343.8   6531V22.             -              -         692.2
IS  3881113  987633            31.8  iblId  he I13.3    upaw.kt   331123.12   38123,1       217.8         5.1.8     8.44     43.55    3189.64  "143134    9862.1  445612.3  3317161.1n 1I171*
16  931.f11"w    lu   m P106    2.6  4.0is ai ems.s918 mothS          01s897.13   8913.13    410.14     198.3       14.34     7.1.9   821.85   MO131.8  397831.1  73852t.4  731355.6         -         -13135:
if  MII3T.f9884(iU 7*10.   12.8  q.out .  86.54    too.laujis  4317.18   4331.18    351.88                49.81    33.6      II9.9    351.53   735355   331135.   382836   6521.8            -                   -        (4215.18
to  IM-63181m 3 7*1189         32.8  Q.su1 *I 3181.66   40.0136.1   45212.1  65212.81  5439.34            49.87    33.66      9.1  1  353.5  32521.5  26173.  451811.0  011888.6             -          -                 890.8
31319 8 DIM    3*ISI689  Ml. 37.8  uusiaja 3186.66    op.3ao.to          8.81        .81      1.E11       6.81     25."3    83.8    161.28          8.8        8.8        8.8        8.8    -                                   .8
28  931198  983113338 3*36.  7.0 46t.d.19 483.45   usAll.ts1153m.93    995.13   111.16                    6.88     15.8    452.94    547.96,        8.8  3862281.5  98141.   1394.8                             -       31314.9
23  SlICEs 818 MUM. 833     0. 8.  ootd.10 48345l l."  IAt.t    26611.85   2662.85  88111.36              81.81  389."5   981.22   2899.37          8.8  291732.2 266418.3 53682.5 $                                     5EM362.
22  IEDSICE  58.8*353i.   8.6  Iso.d.ke  48.1.4    Sto.dit.ho    411.46           411.4    832.43          8.81    548.17   389.13   8556.31        8.8  271118.2  133487.3  42416.3         -                            4245964
23  C1.9181 81A813881           3.8 4%1ls. D. 5494.88    suIrni a.   2513.76   2313.71,   71.58           8.58     11.92      18.881   W61.4         0.   238o.1    631312.3   M316397.                -                  393.17
38  19633. 11113A3333 tuf1t6    8.e ospt.t. 431.78    v89l           32469.55   3249.5   556.13           8.81     14.22    212.52   121.15         8.6  454112.2  321342.3  18353.3                   -                 181134.
33  nIOS.vf6itAtim  189311  08.8  vs01.14 4318.781   wsl.ke              861        68        81.111      9.8  134.69139.13    33.22                8.6        8.8        8.8        8.8               .                       8.6
v6  819811361110               34.6  "aod,"9  573.8     b.tqins    283.15            I's.3    145.23     3491.3    28.105    61.18    24.82   SO325.    51886.3  337628.1   4118116.6                                     4198116.8
68  198834381SLIDE   3        225 .8   olo 6M8A    8       .41..,  1263.2 I62633.25    279.31              8.880     2.25     9.63     39.81        6.8  348925.2  68342.9  744530.1                                      144355.3
73  8*11*3l. 81om8             33.6  no""$o~    8.81    o7dati.    1690.34    7133.34   688.79            8.88     15.331   356.23     833          8.8 317 13  226819  3497996                                          143F19611
72  9811111L1    or   I  Pr *98 15.8  Maanhi5    8.88    sdaots          8.68       8.48     8.88         8.88     25.33      8.8       533          .          .         .         8.6     -          --18.
7Icm 01988           lv 88113901 *13.03. loudsps    8.111  mutota.    656.56    6581.5    656.8            8.8.  25.T1   3:6.66    31.8             8.6 146.1   69431.   23434.3                                          23434.3
BOuhlug 11              *A  IIhI ua  Amct                    I03*1 A224L8.3II12.6115a5.359 33                                                                                                       11.6555,"16.3               %a
-   -  ~ ~~~- - P881                                                                                                   -           ---                             -   -IIM-  918011
Daily  iccomo. hootlty  loutory   ENW             batsal        m boo)    ttrorajI   Loaw   Ifqulp.    tot'al  *181.        3*38     F2,11111f11  M813      bs"I  bit aos    13313          owl?
#All(                   t  I Prdoc  b'it    3t,it.   48.1   10331331  Oak    l b o ntI     up~   388$   I     8      38m)  I lot 8W)    398)         88 (      (8882N     m88$     awlt "Min   (103      (81 3 ml     *
33  831531133  9813.8          3.5  law-to  828."    18ofs~ o ks       114.47    114.41   476.33      32384.73   616.54  31512.811 1435.26815138e.4  44153.  3253151.1  8311793.8                                      3639"1891.81
21  O     20158 .o :  RA3MA". I3.5  mlidop  9187.85    3. to          311.41   3111.41    341.71         29.61     25.33     38.26    14.43    83248.61  38334.3    13114.9  2516319.9    -                      -       7563.
61  331983SLIOE 61339131f     34.6  saolSay   6381.88    t.83.res    334.88    1334.88      82.42       156.32    25.3        1.28    214.45   113239.    2923.2   45244.   241725.                                      HIM2175.
83   188916.18               3.6  lm aoS    531.32    Iso. 3a.to    545.38     212.59     161.861    621.83    31.84   366.23  36519R.88 231163   5358111.2  43)41.1  28182.3   2.1219 IL 313624123.   168425
83  318388 OF 101*11.81108M   56.6  lio.E.a  48331.45    Mijt.El.     364.34      12.86      3.45        54.12      8.3        .31    12.52     4882.3      38.5       68.6    525.    31.41    486.6    342449.  1341126
82  98138313 83.11 a R1pm   38.0  0.99  3  9891.15    Ing to          69.78      37.74       5.1        357.63     33121n    21.61       i 5.6   4218.4    2441.4      MA3.     131391.4   21.6          .16  43181.   4865.
a I3I881033119181              35.8  mId, 513.8         blidp us    2556.53    536.36       34.88       5811.28    25.33     12.66   683,28   255197.5   3292.1   3=5".I  3113.4   aw4.4    3ow.84  333lo 8824697.2
84  9.3DEIILWI 1100EM11   26.8  sas4s   1ix.88    pot.s1.Mu    4318931    913.71    33.22               292.811    25.33    56.43    268.12   36631.1    245.9   4344.4   3338.   3425.3    51.It9 393643.  22323.
U5  WWI98  IU3.t39896          1.8  S.uSi.o3  8.3.4    1116.tAot      291.2    98.2    323.24 u    . 1A.3            31 12   42.21   859.18 2831584.8  31281.1  29151.4  231331.3           -                            1 1 36339.
7163003c           8*l~~ II            IA I  f a C  I  18181 A3862676.6   glut 33J15.3 36931311.1                                                                                      466.3186.
-       o*3



Satoteuco   111       111111111. Im  Eu0
kill7  kctoc.  C, E    t,4Q. A$p9&. le.j SI  FtW l    Calca  rao.  Co   Stone Fort- IM   KC   80    1 IS. 13             ri 0pw. hor  CV    Cm  COB     U        Ft   II   W       to   is   ER
a aEB   C              trobc   hmit    Ups  jA . aim  Sqyf. ii)          4#        10G1  EAt. Met           man O . Sp. Sf. Sot. SOw. wi kegs let  Itra   teat Iteg  qe   load. role. roll. cruu. itorato.
Jos)  loll leis lollv.1   go3  9c3   lell Sbeq) fel)  lEo))I lEad 9k.)  bk.)I (Clod (1k.) tk.1 Iona Ik.) 4k.1 lb.) (b.S I  k.) 9kb.) ak.$ lb.) veo.1 9b.) iSo.)
IBBPU.IPEU.FBICNINB          6.Ba4.9l,a3    2851        416 lh&SSiBI      B    B    B    B    B        a B   B    4    S       9    9    S    I    to   26 2)5    to          B     S                    I        I B    6314
ItSMMlI S9N.I&zE.tigm          0.Bimnft.        1614      I    I    B2in)    I    I    I           S     0 B    B    I ?         &    12    B      5)to45    IsB1 B)                   Si?        a         )       S2 eg  SI
13S11)UD   RSB      1111       ).lhto.ta         (96  WU        I        0 31M115            B    S      B1    B     2    B      3    3    B       B   93   13   52   12        I     3    S      5    JB     I    B    3 121
14 111"11 ImcinHul            SS.Besbldr to       lb      B    B      B    I    I    5    B        B     4 B    B    B    S      B    B    B             a B  B      I    B    B      B     S     a    B            B     B 
Is IIRIIIIIS FBIB             36.Bggrt. 2is        1      B     I    1911 Bt           B    B      B    B0    B    B       2     I    2    5    5        2    S      I    2    B      B     2     9           2     B     B     B
19 B11.VP1E M. PBI9 NSB         l.B11  ms aos    141   lot 0911 IM&         B     SB         B    B    8    B        3   0       2     5     I2 l B           9   56      5 8         B     6    2      8    11
IIUES-RIi.IIIBMERPBIC9L I2.gg9.eo 0 3   ?                  RB         11439      I B    1B14n  t439      I 5         9        I               SB    0    2     3It   2iB         B B               9    B     I     B    BOa
Is MR4IiWIEWIFBICEIBB    l?.BqI.at Os   543               B                      I 6215AM 221751U1       a    8    21    0    toIs lB    B         I    36   54   2fl   36    B       a    0    to           I 6    B          2
2BBSTIIto    UICIL amB. ?.B oal.ko    979                  B B                   5         8             B    B        C A B          I    I            3    4     1993 0 I           B     a    I B                S          5
21 BIUBUWB1L1111311RU    .     1.3 oas.d.ta     fB        B     B e                        B                 8B    44    5    B    B         B    5    29   66  443   29    B                B    B           B    B195
2 LNE3B9ICK  MIE MI .    B.A io.d.t.            6321     S                                                    ,           0 o   s     S    s    s    2    a    n1    2    B           B    5    B    B             B    B    S
23 C3WJ1M M15M                  3.cgoes. a.  795                   IBIB                       E    BEE0               4    B IBSI   B                          I 839 I SBa   P                          B           B   BIB
2 OM2YSEBUBSIOE 11 .1.-II.S00IBm                  341     0     B    B    B    B    B         I    a5          I      I    I    I    a    I S    B    S        B     1    I    S       B    B    B      I           B     B    46
SBRO ~W ININEBIr    cegrls    6.8  Vpl.t.&   9356         B    B    S    I    I    B    B           B     0 B        11    5    I    B    S    B    26   99  719   26    B             B     S    B      II         II   BI20
5B1 SESI I1ESmE                I4.B.cuIdaeo  145    SBUS0                             Ol  657)   59303)I  B OIS                                    I           9     B   I   I    8I5a                        835               a
fBie  uau SloRMNSI            22.Bat.03          2M        B    B    S    B    B    B         B    S      1 B         I    I      I    B    S    I    I        6    Is           B    B a          I    *           s         
a9SOMBISLBIDEX19113TE          14.B GodauI sp    62        5      B    6494       6(4         5    I618490           B     I     I    I    I    B        I    B      4    5      S           B    B      SO         S    '
?iI CBiAIIUPM                  9S.Baa"Idave    6aB         B    4    I    0    *    g         0    5      I 5        3    5      4    B      B    8      4    9    t8      4    B    B       B    B                             a 
Of L5185101111161.11131EC.S 3.Selo.oje1           AI       e    B    el   B    8        1 8               B    a                                                    2                                             
B4ISLIOBJUWESIWBOWISUIIZB.Bemo/d.,sI  33  B    8163~~~~18     5318 n     B139    I     I169  17    S 81    21.     . 1    11s lols                 iim      s      in SI 'I * I                  t elM
M5 Rewired "DWIat of .aierilas. pt actI,lty, is0 tii year. tipoid ispbett refitrrd is loodintu place mtaliply by 136to obtain total osaamnt* plsbs).
ktivities UI.gSt, 5 3 not 54 require a osiotAeat * soFtcks is tto yew.
IIII) P11000W  I W"An of gp)po)notes requird pi aciviui   to Ith  pew. Csuilotu  hed   s a avreoa.labhility of 23 dapWpea  for lewacte 009auge  to gie specific "deqiut,m  15o dowipeit 911 eipeist I qetatn..
EpkpWut ceden: CLVmp tract; CSS.vator dlstrtutor trwckl CWOss*at dsstrihotor trKctl 11,9roderg K,Stat Ioadee I91,eaul tout;i BA ift rtial gt 1, actli tracitor IS, lamt trlctw Uimf.
9.  Labor ad eplpmut is suaW la, coaditim   at preset, available by  g.SJA.C.C.V.,                               In    29           I     1I    S   Is)   I2  9696  i2n    II         JS                            
lb) bier discborqe                                                              I                                              1          1)
tabo  iskmioret m peide  by 21 apedimlas Ito a Mat of .2) apidauii.
E4E1p1S  )oesawtlin peedud by 9 apedaties #Ms    WItof @29 sapdatias. 



Iautameast* u,3980    slow1K  *661
'"W It'bilUif 1iA  knb 2151                          ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AliD HIGHWAY MAIyNhNAjNCE BUDGET*  toweroc Nsajalac froro
438w 18m46IC6    moor6 lbogth  I* 8        &, kg'*                                                    1992                                                    Baamusmoa                 aft highs  MLS.3to
Otbir hiq8As  4181*61 eatObomceIs 4.118  toI.04                                                                                                                                m-odratln                n"t
806u1*it8    8C1393116                   6h9136*          amg8      ftRmC  accs VMS            tmil Lss  lot FORMs Accouia              4343  Mal6 I"w *mU items   Im                   8356  toy osvmocu     mmi
batty  kcmp. Qb.otst, lavatory    VWS           Aael        Omoal   fteriail.  s Lie"       aispu.o   fatal  881t6601  I .0   1000881          6881ma  t               Cosihml b tw     613.1  35I
po ost                  PrOdac   I4at    bets        043*    69339SMr beat s ~ 41 Ct.. Days   3816        319       4684     688       (ml4       (68*       (11886    [ml9  Mal t          18836s    loss6        1n
t8  51131  353.iOaIm          1  .8    2 .3    9,.,,    taoes*t 11* 28        2619.6    2 1196    3436.51  6,18.31    82.14    li  813.43 34828388.) 818218.4  23386826 3881865635                                  iis.
It iyJcb SM011.m               e.g  loo.t.   02          Jw-la,  1se4.&8   anet4.i   2613.88            11.Z~   1e.a1   668.22    231.45   695164.)  "48l61.  12fl225.4 412688.2         --                          *ia.
12 ISENIF1tt8l988193j1C31    4.1 la-is  694.14   UeA.3.e.k           381.24     306.26     15.3         8.80     44.34    241.55    213.8        8.8   13358.   14115.0   811,31.1       -                   -811.
34  18831818 D.C6861C         38.8  Ad ids    1986.18   q.614.14    113.46    ?111.46    17.34         8.88     ISA      69.12    64.3          0g    1116A.1   53114.8   61531.4       --                           851.
Is SHUM888  810068            34.8  skIds t 1. IISI       WM.66.6   3)362.96  6112.91    368.61        51.8       8.4i    41.15    18.s*   6611182.3   91198.1  463194.2  322812?.)    -            -        -
a&  ell. tEeKa ,Atcm          32.g  4....  0 8981.94    610h.68a1   W1U.43    9131.43   194.45         108.32    44.14    19.69  26.81  648.6641.4  4161.?  1244151.2 istn.e             -                   -       is es.
IT311 8t4-J39El31Effg  0*30.   12.1 4.ut el 894.14   tv.J6I*A6    441818H   4418480   112.11           49.8    3I.1        19.99    356.53   222911.   94i58.8  332932.1  61145.6    ---                              621459.
It  MOM-836631 081C0tM    12.8  9.sat .3 2341.22   up.6816.1o  499111.22  48983.22  4611.18            49.81     11.4      69."    613.3  2193883.6  153836.6  14228.9  141g659.)                                   1918339.1
69  GIVER8 684816316  AU. 33.  *Wdhyap  2141.12    "Ja..o.6            g.01       $31m    8.0           8.88     25.33    83.86    389.20        g*g       8.8        8.0        8.0     -                                  .0
20  billiES MElitmI. wllt.  2.0  "tAks6 4883.26   cat.dit.k          9916.29   1996.23   96.A           8.88     95.83    452.4   341.94         8.8  181115.4  895326.4  6682695.8                .                 66395.
"I 859TC85 1*343 1*811.    8.3  mot.4.6  4683.26   oat.d,6.ka    2614.00   26"14.8   896.38             6.8 39.5 38.2    896                      .   91681293811131.                                                 651.4
2? 3.I88  DIMLES 43.68*8.   8.A  lto.d.to  331.24    fiAa4t.o         466.15    466.11   694.18         O.K2   11.91    3831.93   818.36         8.8  2MA183.   1250.8  356285.1    -.                                354283.?
2s COLVIN* 68681(AMI           1.8  cull. ai. 118.68   culvr a.   218.15   258.15   634.149             8.88     9.1,2    18.6    311.14         8.8  243315.2  6115213.1,  438441.2    -                             466441.2
is 6*5. 816*13614   1886MI    8.6  v.91.64393W.18    u.gtt.16    32412.47   324912.41  1656.35.         8.88    364.22    262.12   26.11       8.8  014581.2  U119631.1  16291131.6    -          .                 1829161.6
Is RECAR1.116114110U CiII    8.8  v.3A.6 4396.18    .Pt.As            8.81       8.88     8.88         8.88     34.89     69.31    33.22        8.8        8.8       8.8        8.      .         .                       .0
so  asiw  883361LM3C          44.8  umaodAys 561.68    irslp i.   31881.68    6181.68   621.28        310.91    28.195    11.68    245.82  29515.6   59551.31  828521.9  4311)6.9        .                            431136.0
a 183 .61 [mixSit   no        MA5.  mai6.u    WA.6    pol.i.mu   4616.25  161916.25    29.85            8."8      2.25      9.63    68.88        81.8  346868.8  6)1448.2  1On42         -                            MM 868.2
13  303383*3 5368*66          33.  saaMeps   8.88    aWJ'4A          MI. 1559,99 155.9       58313      8.88     25.13    416.23    68l.5        0.8  696549.9  966094.8  6112511.1           -              .       61263. A
12 *ECCSSILIWI a ism3          5.1  uad"46    0.68   .9. sa0*          8.18      6.68      8.80         8.98     25.13     66       25.1         8.1       6.         6. A        .8I              .         .                           5o-
nII 8331 836189118138  Act. 38.8  wai p        8.68   apwadtia    61219.92.  6299.92   in.99            8.68  -25.3         8.1     36.88        8.8  "5M36       6~6.    2658-.                                      22533.
a 8 8 I I a I            a a I       I I a a a cI              1  A      t a6 S                                            24226818. 112965LI 691,14261.1511595.                                 8.811135419551.5
hllt  Arc.v. heatatp  6ov.Morp    VW3           k*u.6       AOso..   lma6" s  tawa  Eqvagwot  fatal  MAfl(8A8S    1886   (883088            01 tA.       Aal  bit Cost  I0666L          335
61  666133363  819.83.31       35  34mle  098.91    3a.e  to         Wm2.61           0.68 84       62384.1)    WA$.5   315.". 615.28           8.8        8.8        8.8       0.8   642.16  4486.1  2981181098.1~81
29  0633160019668  881M3.A6. 13.5 said,pl 9596.83    law to         4261.25   4216.25    366.1)        28.83    25.33     16.26    64.41   6153. 106888.    ?2M8.3  21:581.5    .                  -                   M2851.
19 OI3181138K *CJI")l6S    66.8 Ja.idpi 658.88   Sofd.11.t    *25.180    8255.88    81.35             *58.52    25.13    39.28   294.65   98188.3   31640.1   40858.2  26854.5    .                                  288.54
Kl 8186883.161                 3.8  law to  169.38   i6.14..6u.      554.1      211.39    92.41      8121.8    981.8   3165.23  68519.881 2428193.8   59542.9  459421.1 291r15.9   211.1   3216.22 43382.   I111536.
8I 3.38336 or 011111M.S9ICES   5.8 to1.8., 4683.2    OAAAAS.t        31.1        11.116    1.41         4.92      U.S      9.13     12.52     4110.2     686.9      698.1    5345.9   294.63      498.61   694881.1  649429.1
82  811833936 ILLS (*6*8   38.8 .1533 99.66    Em. to                968.19    692.831     6.40       351.63     13.12    21.61   39.86    6816.4    7636.2    5333.1    1682.6   168.9           59.1   416985.   5321S9.
Is 88643E 681809418           35.8  uea4ey  531.01   br&dgi a..   2289.18    411.91    38.13          588.28    25.33     15.6    a86.20  22918.8   99683.1   346,56.6  2151362.3  6831.82   6851.84   93191111.' 2263654.8
84  51381E63.08S 339968888    21.8  suoldas  65.8    pot.sl.om    4581.68    988.13       34.61       392.81     25.3     58.46    268.62   130138.4   22842.5   45441.6  242316.5  3686.34    516.69  31189.1  2)2838.6
85  5133. SUV.688081E        9.8  A.64.e.    894.14    1,.ha4.18   388.41      8.601     8.88      61.32      59.62    182.21   859.18        8.6        8.0        8.6       8.8  388.41   3839.68  $5560385. 3586810.35
0181  I8     1        mA I IIi a             C   I     IBl Al                                                         33 12462.3   W2115.6 611562.?U16483.                          43118023 3646418
A680  1        U         *           68   I     A6 1 0             6851  9                                                M"VIIA IM412612.42858564.S634243.8                            43118383.618 14



i(SMS REOMO (O fdM 40M( OM (1111019 M AWAL Mfl(tWAICE MM
Raoteame         KRIIOIML 816MI KtIM
Gaily  Aceap.  Cc"    tig. kob. Ekas  6ta f Im              catca Gfoo  ce           off. lo    K    kO   la   Is Ilk,                   cv   04 Cos  a          PC   am    w      to   is   Kh
co                           prodK   east    041            Ihan AW: ", W".               tea"  not: ad           so  OW. op".    - ow                w    A"ls       kfork       ims                                 tra.
lski IS$$ 1831 laU  fasi tojo fajl to)) io"  lost foul 119.1 440.1 04. I Igo.; la.  ft. too. I (Gaj Ift.1 #kbo. Ifib.) um.1 eaj                 .1 1110.1    Ito.1 l1b.1
lo 49wi Kfa"ENHS               4.6  #-ato &I   3446    US 2UM RbM          0    4    I    0    6    0    a    11    4            5    It    I    9    21   so  rA    23    0          6    I    IS   It    a                  0
"IM O M .Mut.16ml  0.2  im-to               2173      0    a    Iun           9    a    0    0       1    a    Is   14       1   14    a    0    it   so   21    1   ji    a    14            1    0    so            II
SWIF ItAllmm .mm           4.0  jaw-ba        is      I    I    II    a    9    01   I    I          I    0    0    9    a         8    0    a    I    a    I    4    I    a    a             I    a    0
3II ltMIM    RESEIAN          13  lm-M            I      0    a    I    a    a    0    8    a           I    0    a    I    6    a    I    0    4                        I    I    a    I        I    0    0      41
14 some[tfnm lltol            18.11 SW& to        11      a    I    8    a    0    6    I    0           a    6    0    1    0    a    0    0    a    6             I    a    I    I    I         I    I      I                 2
i5 solums itime               $6.8  AM  bo    300         0    0    0 11112    a    0    a    0          9    I    a       2    1    2    a    a         2    3     1    2    0    0        2     1    a      3
14 GRAMM    fticom            12.1 4.048 as    164    922 till IZ111    a    a    I    I    I            0    4      S    1      2    3    I    I    I    I   V           3    0    a    I        I    I    I
aim-m-mem               ftioL   me oAa ei    sn           4    0    a  It"       0    4  141"  14"       4    8      I    a      I    I    0    1        1     3   to    2    0    8    '         I           I     I
to ON4110106 tAlcols    11.4  $.aat 63   MS               I    I    lotum        a    0 tuo 1630         a    a    28    4    Is   11    o         I   21   "   m  I 21    a    I    a    a                  is
it Bills MMAT)SKM   set. 11.9 ow""                 I                                         0     9    0    8       6    I    I    a    I    0    0    a    a    9             I    I
20  blicuts mcmim  latio.  2.8 661.11.14         m                                           a    I    4    a        4    6    a    I              0     3    4    it     s    II    I                                         63
.11 offuits WARK  RUNIIL       4.3  ut.d.       em        I    a    a                   I    I    0    4    a    44    0    a    a    a    a    29   6)  40    n                II    I    6                  I              lnt
t tub ottem  tA.Mm.   6.6  lko.d.km    614                        1                 4          I    I      I     I    I    0    0    a    a          3    5    Si    2    1    0                          0                 0
tAt4kl4lAlVltkM            SA  cuts. OI.    OM                    I                            0    a    a       4    9      I    0                  1    1   II    I    I    I                           9               131
DIKI am iK misixf. 11.5 N"dd"                im                   0                 1    1    0      1    II    I    I    0    6    a    a    S,   a    to    I    I    I    0                1    a    I       a     I    a
.0 XNAK  *Ktillm Colo          6.0  ve"Im    IU15         a    0    a    0    2              a    0      1    a    n       I    0    0    a    I    16   11   n          a      I    0    0       8    I    a       I    Im
It IKCM.KK(411N CMIR   1.4  "ViAo                  a      I    I    I    f    9    I    IS    6          a    0    6    I    0    4    I    6    0    6    I    I    I    0    4                  I    I    0       a    a      0
2 fAII06E NOUROU               14.8 maidays       121     0    0    8    I    a   163    a    0  wo    0    a    a               0    9    a    a    I         I    I    I    0    4    I    I    a    0            0    0      0            1
U4.03       2"       4    I    0    4    0    0    a    0           8    a      I    0      2    0      1    a      5    6    14    3    0    a    4         2    1    1       1    a      0
SIK Klivillis        14.8  owd"s        el      a    a    II  sm        a   su     o    a  ini ton         a     o    o    o    a    o    o    c    4    o    o    0    a    I    0    1                  0     0    it
S     RIAL SIWASE            ISA  snidays    5m          0    0    6    I    a    I    6    I    0    S             2    0      S    I      S    0      S    a    If    S    0    6    6         3    I    I       S    I      IS
12     SSAM     a AWNU         5.6 owbvs           a      a    o    o    a    I    a    6    o'   0    ;             0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a                I    I    I       I     0     0           1
"MaisirAllvi Act. 19.4  owdols    6n            a    I    a    0    a    0    a    0    1    a             3    a    0    4    0    S    4    a    23    0    a    I                    I    I    I       I     I     a
GkWtLINS                  3.6  lm  be      ft       a    a    a 402    I    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a    I    6                     I    I    4            a           0    0                        S
el         0 WILSitt*$    39.0  Iso.do             I      I    I    I    1    4    21    0    8    111   42    a    0    a                   0    a    6    a    a    #               a           I    I                       a
latums NKLS I I           .9   11            6,    a    0    a    I    1  216    0    S  IM              1    a    0    0    0    0    0    9    0    8    I    a    I                      I    I    I      I    0      0
lm   liewmay            15.1                31      0    a    a   tss    a   to)    a    0  an           I    I    0    8    I    a    a    a    a            a    0    0    a             I    a    a       a    a      4
OKISLOKS IMOWhIN   26.8                     14      a     0    a   416    0   06                I?%$  012                                                                                  0                       0     4
$W.IWIMMM          9.8  .614.01        a      I    0    0    a    I    I                     a    el   :1  so    :1   :1   :1   :1                                                         :1   '      :1
I                I                                                                     q           I           I     el
m                        2r, IS                                                                  L ml 19911  ,,I 61+313T,     I  019)] lini 125031 19411 niI  I  1   "I   51   el 160  I- SI   1.I    I   ml
M emoted owts of "tortats, W Attl1satlo to Oft 1104f. Lgqs%4 assult Morred to wadram galas (ftilipty trj Its to smals tolat aboat lib Pton$.
ktivkttts MA8, ", Is as 0 rt"kte so nitimto of 0 Wh in ot "S.
M$ fetsomi 6 "M" of D"tpmi tooks tt"sttd w milvity in ia par. fsti"tos bmd 0 awqt Availability of M d"Vrear for law not nslowil to my OPCifit owspeal.8" rAdwow W itip"Pat towstws.
iquapmt taint CVAwp ttfabl tDAmbor dtsitsbmtW  iCKki                   46601111114100' ttgtii N.V6W$ rt.fromt loakel eft,aaaaal coital 40 &88 colitti 10, comfor ttattwj IS, tam ttatw atenw.
WILAKE USOMS ft  II.S.LCA.V.                                                    ort- 0          Fe .1 lo   to   is   Dr. ow- ON   to    Da             a         it   imL  go   to   Is    *4
SUNWI ISO                                                          am  ow. ow    ow.            ow.                          Ifat*    & vac  low.   1. fall.  ao.            tmt
taw  as it"$Pmat is swats" Caditieft at pewt. avallablo by                                                         29   51   40   14    8    151    I   I         121    9                72    2            I    a
act awatal at ot"ntl  W  UAW  gtplgt                                                                                                                           0                       I           I    a
Obi Coftr
SM
taw iiiiatesigoo otevs" by 21 4"dattas ifoo a UUI 44 ?i al"Atin.
it.tpmt sofiw"tim jw"Ww by It #r"tgas itat a idal a# 21 probablan.                                                                                                                                                                 to



0
Iota) Ughmee   Ieeqtb  to  dolt      i 4951.216a                                                                                                                        124401 rotAbsoamopaved roadslal    34.8i
bir a laese hi ghap lb qib tot         44864 MA                                                                                                                         ONde  oLa.o-ae  roods te88'b' W2h.0  is
OWNde rebabltatii. tIorabg    Ieaqtui o%ei to ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM  AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                                                       totwdi 8MB4ter&m5 #108155
bin ernttrectaan hilaaal  469lb  a 0.88   ke                                                                                                                            Batacanoa  asalarg oan" raids Seqtba  1113.1 io
Ote   ahaa tettht 6at*teaono:61  4.101  to                                                 1993                                                                 OeraVelisoo 000-Favd  toadt  leoqt4a  115.16 la
08121114    livi I12I81 C4 *IIv11tS
84181(I*IKf   *CH4141(S         184881081Av        AW         FO82 EE 16 CE *tW44   MS*4  all4 cosis  III 4128C  *ECC1328            *8381 owl6448 toy C  ACCDI28II          *161*1 Souat toy C88IIC            Iola
flasi    derap.  bo4aI   Ieseloty 110*1   knee        b..ft       elrala fl ats    o"    &laapbt   role)   80348148     too80    4Ufl4&MIo   fal16l       knel   hast Coat  101*2          NII
t.d  6*38    trader   Deal      IMats       gl~~~~~~~~Oat  etiits  or   Ean    ree  6ava   181 )kh   (Ml4 II11)           41184    4(41          MI8$4   48011         1812    nak qeais4   41814      44           421811
It  WWI11.   MAIMING843          .4.  a.as  ON836.4  144ahs,0  to   1512.4   213,62.481  25681.4a            6)8. 11    82.34    112.18    8)3.43 l8421445.8  226408.8  1131456.1 23Ili12.8                                       131411942.0
II I 8P*81  gaf.YAINlduM)   0.8  lan-ko  2314.12    .p.leeeka   810113.2    181)3.20   2146.65                11.221    30.818   1818.22    231.45   218146.5   1433181.6  3531654.3  443210.4       -                     -       04518.8
1C48111481408,1128.UC08    4.8  lowe-to   185.08    tea.laft.ka         241.18      261.1)     66.94         S."8      44.14    241.35      Me.8         0.8    C1814.1   66281A       18W418      --8141.61
It  S164NS OiComIIIOI           18.0  Sbid(to 111414.10    ep.0146.A      124.33     12.U        12.43,        0.0       15.28     69.52     84.1          8.8    11801.4    58361.0    613)2.1      -           --631.2
Is  wl41%B  040840              36.8  eblds ki 4014.18    ep4P 1.iSud   11618.82   48110.82    28%.66         58.8        8.44     61.55    W8I.8    63118.)    88241.8   44)101.1  1113145.4                                      1113111.0
66  StI1.111PORK  #1148648      12.8  e.eae 43 8316.1)    Iae00.18.4     8831.41    8831.4)    641.18        688.32      44.34     19.1t0 81.85  5622114.1   156485.3   634521.4  4685461.5                                        6415611.5
II  som-8111.1148448cy P*W      12.8  *.sai .3  185.08    lea.Iae.i,   302.40    3825.411   321.11            40.8)      3t.6"     60.80    131.51   195111.5   123112.1   210414.8  504828.5                              -        3482.5
to  IO-111181128112S     (o 16C1 11  2.8  g.eat ml 2341.12    ap.alc4te   35885.38   35865.38   288.18        40.8       31.66     60.00    151.53  IM1182.0  11143018.41 2584081.3  5425184.                                      s m2)8.8
49  01488 8888*iis1t8  KIC.  41.8  .eeidays 2342.12    up.Iae4.io           8.8        8.8        8.IS         8.80      25.33     83.86    100.28         .0.        8.8         8.8        8.8                                         0.8
A Di OIECES N18C114E4*  6*10.   2.8  ail.d.ki 4531.88    sat.al,tA4    1608.44    18184.44    853.22           8."       "5.l   452.84    541.84           0.8   48)468 811804414.2                  -           .L        .       4841664uft .i
21  Di414 26*3E 4 r 114181M11.   8.3  eatdAt  43.80    eatdat.to    2540.28    2540.2 0844.1.3                 8.08    60.0   4184.22   2800.21            0.8  2188024.3  2543312.2  5332336.6                  .5332336.6
22  1.1148ICNE 821(3141 6.1116.   .6.  4io.6.i  2I8.A      le.6at.ka      415.881    4)5.88    103.88          8.88    5481.0)    381.43    858.22         8.8   2612188.5   143M8.1I  48448.1                                       848.
I3COlVER) Ml1l1t8*1lC           3.8   oilv. a. 5386.80    cehvr a.    26801.63    2688.63    88689.8                   1.2        1.8      3126..8 22258 18542 4888161888.6
3O  Iwa*l). 11611*1109 4861.   8.8  sep4     4111.20        Jge.*        43122,4    4312.34   5388.6)          8."8    364.22    262.52    6.26.15         8.8  1518131.1  113241.1  218218.4        -.                            23812886.41
33It AIIA.W164I*1408 488188    8.8        USet4  4441.20    sp.4.      456)4.42   4514.42   48q50.3           8.88     44.81      10.31    31.22          8.8   228982.81  2000.).   52863.                    .          -52963.4
58  8486  6*48418148            34.1  eee5ida    4)1.111 8       b ad owe    1480.95    448.85    128.10     4481.4)    2I.m       b1.68    265.8    25284.       4804.    4131.2   4438.1.                                         415818.3
68  1401IN 54.34  *4V*L        225.81 sal..)    644.80    pot.S2.ne.  07"4. "   614. 5311.18                   8.0        2.5       01.63    41.88         (2.8  152448.   652135.2   885415.2                                      851.
11  88148148 Sf8814             13.8  "aoeo s    L.a       aPedalsi      nu6."8    n5o.0        W8A.S          8.8      25.33     1 2562    l8e.t          8.0a 101558.4  H1188860.6  IS12518.3                                     324.
12  KUiSSAUVE4 04 *85428         5.8  eaolday     L.8      ayedeatas        0a888                8.88          8.80     25.33       8.889    25.33         8.8        8.8        L.0         8.LI- 
10  04480*08434S8*8401  88. 88.  .aalday  8.88    aeieeiaa 6308.84    4308.8  430.88      8.08    2I.1        I86       36,80        8.8   15862.)   61482.0  2288.                        -                   28818.2
OBbilIf         841144088~~II   IA   IC E             80)1A   L                                                           181111431.3 0543814.2 62) 4.85888.5                                         .4808. 
lA*1111AU*IC    OIIVIII4S                  1*381681           *2883      F 118C  *CC484 MKnS         Vitt CUSIS  IST F1a CC*1X382AIM *283             l02       n18  F8018 48C1281      Ann11  Ilml toy CUl l              T01m
sail)   kinep.  81.0484   14tava44l       VW3       &*e.)       AMimAl   laterule   Laber  liqepeeol 804.   881411.                .18    01831          841        ba)u   wiMt Coal  1012.          vmi
is3      io IIIIIN SE*141.1118  4.5  Idaeka  8316.21    lesshtr t,    823.58           0.08      8.88       21614.13    446.54 1 652.88  44553.28         8.8        8.8         8.8        8.0   8123.58   4486.12 j60I128.  36052884.0
29  0148  48*0110  11*16.48L   43.5  enJa 1s824.11    leet to            4496.58    4948.S8     WM.8           MI.8     25.331    18.26      64.41   82344.5   184338.5    26646.2   2183211.1    .             .                   218324.4
40    HER14 51.18  *C1182)415   24.0  Valds  644.08        ot.6l.je      1311.8    2321.081    84.81         158.22     25.3Sf      8.20    214.61   101188.2    13360.2    51638.    202)14.5            -          -              281126.5
80  640114.I46                   3.8  la". to   2314.5    tea.ln.i        234.52     445.14,    38.58       8121.813   185.84   3454.23  40549.08  1848241.0    24588.4   211216.8  4223411.4    245.16   17116.22  314525.   12288.4
8t 1.12    OFouu114il  8 18O1CHES    58.8  Ii4.4.d   453.80    ot.di.60    340.54     601.881     3.8         14.82      8.21w     0.31      12.52     3830.5      S)5.        65.1.     5818.1    21.6         88      1366455.5   441125.0
82   41*84 411.11 5 1kt    841at  36.0  wall as  1084.11    lane is       026.18     283.23      6.28        351.6)     23.121    21.61    39".8      65528.      2565.4      5818.4    3115.32    132:.01     18.'     43524.5   5883881.)
DI3    D 8*204 380881Is 15.om idr                   is.8  brid4e  an    2885.8       418.801    27.8        588.28      25,33     15.66    686.28   28624.7    68446.4    31184.8  252842.3   11)6.82    3653.84  11,12018.1  28248214.2
84  SLIOI54IWI  2t*081181   2.8  eeedAv,448       o.loa        4442.1?1   888.511    34.11         192.811   2S.331   50.41    268.42   4)2360.8    22542.1    44191.1   2341ISM.1                    1.82434.    242.
83  *1181. SmII.1821148II4l1   90.  A.018.s3 I185.08   tooae.AAie   -2654.01           8.08      8.88       408.32      59.121   482.2)    850.10         8.8        8.8         8.8        0.8   2654.91    1830.108  488218.0  482183.8
P    8       0        1C    a*3A  I          1*111 SANCf         I0  1*A1L6                                                         4145,5.41  401428.21 442231.0 2345536.1                           alum08855321.8                        eIa.
A                                               11284.  8*    111 8      11C  12 64   I                                           1288632811.11 9148$28.41 68111815.8141414821.2                      4121208.156112.l 



U S=$  alaaafc atatU MifW    .  $US 18?     1933,0M18It=                O
migirsur         ntli                                 A        111f  Il   I    I   A    L    S  Oi3l                       i    *       001tSIM                                    a       S I   t     a I   3   I  to
Osoup   kAtap.  EC t ogs.  9b. Clos. 6ta  Fint Sod  CIu Ssao. Et   Stem   ot-I                     ft PC 0   0  0.  IS  Dos  Spa. Io    Cy   Cas cmO    a    IC    ROL.  UP   to   is 4
cod       au  a us            p,ip,   th.        oars  8st. Sa~n AW    yeta .                      1 ar m. maot      .      w     o pat  .   opar Ot. sp a.  tar  Lg   itr  tart traKi trati ve. too. toil. tol.us.3.  o
ilIqi 4aI  (al4h (3 (all falal  eltll  fa11la~ MA       ll (*I  )(ft.; tI(t.  IIva.; lb.) lb0.; tin.  lip.)110   Ia lb)li.li.) lb.) Mi.I tin.) lb.) Ib)l.   b)l.
Is*SPaLitPEU.OOSC11I1           1.Ba&.oaeSI    2d         M  1234l2153*3      S     S     1    8      I     I     6312        6      I    6      8     31122  192  1?               I     a                                        at    I 04
It 1maKDSINFA9N.4hi       M) aOO.B)Imtj          2.34*      *     I    *05          a     a     I     a     I      *   It     Is     1  15      S      021562 )i               1  15       6315              ItS         6      S 
l2  VAIFICA1Itissur.KMC3l4. i3a-la                 a6             *    a      a           a     a     a     a     a    a       a     a     a        a        I     a    a      I     a     a     *     a     I            I a         I 
Is BintiuIimsaESsu!m            i.siaat-ta           a         8 I      I     I     I     I            a Ia             a      a     a I               a     a     a     a     a    I               I  I    I            a     o     a
V4I UuLiEIs  C1iSUotio         IMS.Iubdtkg         n2       p    *      a     a    a      I     I     I     a     a     a     a      I    a      I     I    6      0     I    a      S     0     S     S     I               I        I
IsSl     KIift REUPAIR         5*.S 68Sd'to       2%6       0     I    010t19       6    0 I       0        0 I                        0  0   25 1    2    0                               6     2   I I     9 2         S   0        3
)13 l.im$fw        MOM          Mol4   12.041.aaa " 6*9    IORS?I1i           S lld   0 a6 a                0 I         3     9      2     4     6.8         4     S   58      4     6     1     6     2     I            I 0     05
11  NO-91I.EUISKVPI N .I.q.t 12.1                           8     S    51s318 0           11308308  I    Ilm l                S      3     I    6      S     2     Silb        2    S      S     0        I 0        i I        I  41
to  lOi-illwmiIilSPRlCi       12.1  9.1ook  3    Ms9I3            0 S    83931     8     BI19353 i935      a     0    34     a     9     9      6     6    I9   29   *49    11      I   0 a9 I              I     2     0      I III1
)lShliIt imll9 IsRCs i1.i.SaaId.p,                   I      S     I     I    t      0 a         0           5   a    I  a     I      I        0        6     0 I      0        4 a         8     I          6    0             S    I2
2SSIICiEs  CImiC1Eale . 2.Iocat.d.km               953      I     I     I        0 S            0     S    I      0     4     6      S    S      S     S     I     I) it       I3           6 B        S    S      I        0        a8*
21 SIICNMS LWU.mAINii .         1.1  ut.O.ha    ow          a    a      a    *      a     a     Oa  0             I 642       S            a          a 026    63 42)    26         S    I      3     a     I     I     I    01*21
22LIKED 553ICK  MSI.fAiN.    *.6 IAadks,    M9              *    *      I     a     a     *    *      I     *     *     *     a     a      a    a      a     2    5  39        2    a    6       I    0    I    *        I      I    8
21CE3t*kl m3INI1xa0             3.lcCol. a.        69*         0        S I         S a   I     a     I     I     0     4    6      I      I     I     S     I     I    44     3        0  a        I  I     I     I      I    0I  II
290DINER 508IVual1h1I.4cf. MSaIe.1u                31M         I        0     6 I    I  I             S      I    S      I    5    8       S     6           S     63  to            I    8      a    0      S     a      I     I4o
301NAVA .E1E101191CO511  .3.SwtAt.i               iss       I     I     a     a    a      a     a     I     I8    621         6     I     0     0      S     9    6a   hi      I        0  a     I     a            6 1        8110t
St NEC3tS.VE6EI11lSCCu1R    LI  mWka.ke    1959            S     0           0   a        0           6      I    6     2     6     I  0        a    Is3    3     9  it        I    a      I     IS       I        a     a    1)55
so  blallUSaiilEaK             14.S uoldap*        126      I     I    S      S    0a2          S      301  I aII?                  I     S    6 I    a      I        I     I  I           S     8     I     S I      0        8 a   8
*EliSLi1IDE  V1           M2.0  sat.m3        311     S              I     I     0 I      S     S    8            I 3         2     8     I    8    6        6    is        6        6     S     2    0      I     I    0a     I
a9 SOIISLIDE KIIV)ilES         14.Sbboay0a          94      8     8    I05*4        55*Su       6a    51toot126         S     0 a      I        6     6     8 a          4 I      I     0  a     I           0 I         I    Oil
7i1IMh   IL   $IORA%88         i3.Ouua""ap         581     a      0    0    6       B     I     I     I6       08       2     a     3    6      3    8      3    S    Ii       3    S      8     S     3    a    5       1     a     aB
fl2ECtSSutLEAVlOF AIM           LB.S..Ia,           I  0  S            0     a     I    0       0     a S         0 *               I 0   0           a   0 5           0     8      a     I     8        8  I     I     I     a     0
I9OIWIOSUIUISIOI1IVE  CI. 1S.1  ulolal            *31      0    0         I        S     S I          5    8      0     3    5      S    6      5     6     4     6  21       6         0        6 a         0  0        I     6 a   a
so 568W1.UIR                     1.llwt.k           35      I    I      618            I last8                    6     6   S       S    S   0    0 a        I          6           2 8  0    1        6     0     S a   a        II
III.1t4818081a13.A HCJIUS    5S.Sl11.1.d.,           I      I     I    0    a       a    28     a     I   61    46      a    0      a     I        0        0     0 a   6         0        a     0     a     I     I     I     a     IS
82 01114l11U0iMLs Il8WO18S0.  aollSI               6      I6          I    I 0         262*   S      I899        I     5     6     6    0      I    0      S     0     0     S      I     a        I        S     S    S    6 a     a
83  Beoglg10931l             1S.I anud9          21      S    0    BI  l?        61la        I     84)95        9     S     I     a     B            0          S      I 0 aS            S     I     5    6          0             3   a
64SIKUIS6ftS ItW188I2b.I1aao6*ap                   34      S     I     64)8        04) OR             83682                        S S    BSIM    VI0                                                  0     I     I        
e5s13ISi0A.P3OVEN18 11    .9.la.esu.*3              I      I     I        S  I    I      I      I     I     I                                   S      0             0  laI   8I   ;I    I    SI                          1   8o    8I
I    0      I    A     i t                        I 3pi482b39541               2i51%+  4I11244 19614  19891 345    25    31    421  $1   Il  136   246) 3511  33*i   iS            6    a5   311   91  14         1   Ill 1631
Of3 lafauad itomk of 6aterials, pa aclavuip, la the Pat. Lsipid &$jpbalt retorted to bdradtt pdlo.s taaltaplp by 1SO to oltat total hawat to galOall.
kila?ah.a No.31, 59, 83 ad 60 topics a. tlia.). of  is uto ae SIpair.
3333 WaSOMo*I sA uW  of tquapaOt salsh  taparad pa  Actasiv $a the ptar. ftsataut based Oa asaap availability of 21  daWlarp. for laba nt assipa  to Ml sWriac imiuapatmt.sd 158 OaaisW a  for qpsmt I ewariwa.
Egaipoat aodass CV*duap tratil C68,sater 4istralmstor tract; COSSSasphalt Eastrutsta trsc4 b0,9radar; 18,Iot. lomada ML,auvaI vo33uti 80 drab toIler; 10, c(du*tr Itactor Is. fao tratw slowv.
IV0lI81IIESMS3RCSS       .B.6.C.E.V.                                           Fart-i IN.DC       lo. 101      Is    wi,  Spw. lOK   CV    COAc$IsU                  la    go    to   Is   In
1191   to)                                                           a.    w.Spr. ow. Spa. SP"t. ta   kits  int  trat Ito'ut trck Ired, led. Coil. toll. c.   a.to
2.LO          M Iqapaatoo   lpaatiog ',tiprauaots  .3 Sat Gew aata  msal  iLi....                                   o     2      1 a        1      1                      6It   2     0      22    18     4 2               0
3. labor ad aqaipoal   at Opresetsa  (oAlstau   at ptaat   ssa bi  i   SL..W.                                       S      9    3     4SI               5    *     39             I 0  5    2     221 
lb) bOar LauKaMOSga                                                                                                             24      S     5) S              61          S     S I~
Late  i&Ola.tsm  Palvidd bi 21 #Wndtia. ito. a total of 21 "adawiatta.
(qeupsat saalotuata  provided by It #Yadataa  Eros a total)o 02) apmlaotaat,
an



UaaotuMM.istdTMK MMa KUMa "
bier .aiamur kobAw 11.41 :4594.61d, ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AND HIGHTWAY MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                                                              beidSOi4dfE  i1  4314
bier cokutcctim  khua    16mph  :6.06   to                                                                                                                           Steimee  ficahog -praw       slg,   232.61 ha
Other hgMape Ieakbet easatemwebs 4.16   k.                                                           1994                                                            ownfoulkeO    aso-61 tw oa iob a91b1  111.51 is
S4UI(N(   6614911360                      lwuvisth           MMJS      tau6 01131 VMIS             ol 1031$  fly 53*    ACO11 18u            m1     8101.6ow     In1 6316 *111861    am35  6134I (6r O1061            19M
6a:ir  ik4os. bamt:4p  3eeoatorl,   M66            Ocl         Ansau        Wishu4    Late  E(quapees   lots,  NAIMOIS          *6 L     U iIPEUl    391*. A             33,6 bttos3l  MA1L     6S
RAa N[ a                ft4oK   hit    limits          hat   2041*1144S i tf  ses   C.       ays   I1168    16) 3863      68)       R08,     t0D))       Intl3   4016)         M68)   w8 quas    g686          test)       4186
It *Vou. Kf81.011161316         6.6  a..,: .3  51.91    3u,ist la   14261.15   442613.1   23661.29         116.31     62.34    11.16    61.39839 111861.5".       11      89158.US     124141441.0                            1 241464.8
It     *V0 1WAN141.I00*01   0.6  las-he  2326.40    e.lAe-to  318418    114.6 12.8   2246.6                 33.22     38.66    468.22    231.45   261,65.1   MUM)4.  51652)3.4 2165.                                  - 4213535.38m
42 SAIICA611r419.JE011   4.6  4a,.i.   111.96   ite.lam.lt               254.19     254.19     13.19         B.66     44.3    241.55   2M.69            6.6    11296.2   63614.9    71313.3                                      14313.1
34 S360L660 0(EE811II6         I6.6  sli  b* 1)31.6    up.e614.4.        661.23     861.23     69.12         6.66     35.26     691.57    04.13         6.6    12269.5    56424.3    68311.      --06396.6
Is  S344318(S 66903            31.6    IsI,1  1131.88   op.shid.k.   11922.54    1W392.4    331.16          59.64      6.44     44.55    164.64   145414.0  166142.1  495431.9  1389154.                                      3391.3"
II  63.18063  91a61N6          32.6  ..:,15 61513.91    lamisbl.A       1531.16    15)3.16    62.1.4       619.32     44.34     19.39    823.65 52416161.3   333605.6  5935.2  6115334.2         -                    -       31524.2
It 1131-6l4(161ANENE 90116.   12.6  s.at es  133.16    te.JuAt    365.56    3159.56    3641.95              49.1      31.11     19.9     353.53   36256.3   315093.   251135.6  554535.                                        55415.6
to  613-631)3)eo   9AC611164    32.6   .a3. 232.1.6    up.e634.1.  42631.32   42631.012 3553.3I1            49.01     31.66     69.99    451.53  246446.   3156261.62984261.2  6461016.1                                      64110911.1,
39 elmg!~ 68686tIAMOS ml.  31,  mE 1e 226.36    00.Iam.1e                 0.66       0.66      6.66          6.66     25.33     63.66    469.26        6.6        0.6        6.6        6.6      -                                   .6
26  131C3IS  6OW1CML Mint.  2.6  sat.i.1m  4113.91   t1.44U1            4691.99    169.1    941.99           6.66     95.6)    45.96    541.9,         6.6   3653.3 9659.1 ow%      6143129.6 0                               1643129.0
73  BIlLIES imU     6*411(6.    0.I  aa.1.t1  4163.%    ..)dt.&.   254.11    2541.68   6492.21               6.66   3691.95  3163.22   2699.3          6.6  7H1917.0  2551663.4 5SI68.MS-                                     5148363.
22  kLIMO 6331N1S WA.PAI36.   6.i  lsa.4.b   342.64    Iss.di.to6   551.25          511.25    652.66         6.66    546.9    38.41    65.11           0.6   206666.5  455151.5   4,14139.4 1                                  43463.)
23  (361101 M313l*111           3.8  Calv. s. 54018.6    aica3t a.   2695.15    2695.35    M9.36            6.6      9.1.2     16.66   411.14         6.6   214164.8   36116.6  4M43.UM                                       456415.5
30  16166 9(664A3383 CUIO3   6.6  volit.to 461.16n   ee         a       4350.26    4456.26   5)M.1           6.661   3614.22    212.52    126.5        6.6  3544522.5  3169414.6  28611111.1                                  21116131.3
St RECULWU611)0 6111    1  6OIM  .6   k.693.  4661.1      vW.q.3.a      3563.83   35633.83   3619.22         6.6      14.69     39.4J     31.22        6.6  2339669.4  2811133.1  49962.4                             -           in4993.
56  80486  6hA1110311          34.6  eamidaps  411.66     b4 ~anq m M313.35   3163.3    323.65             149.31     26.95     61.18    245.62   254066.3    49361.2  4451$2.4   616149.6       -                             436149.8 
he  tutu3 SLIM  R1166*3.      225.6   .4.3    6.045     .66  .1.e      11145.66 1,135.66    29.33            6.66      2.25      9.13     421.66       OA    11533.5  64845.         S666111     --msi.1                                                0
13  60316161 Slow*6            45.6 )mamda4      6.66    kyedask       1566.64      W156.4    563.54         6.66     25.33    351.23    I6$.55        6.6   393554.3  118691.6  3312521.                   -                  312521.6n
12R4CIssiLIB9E a  ism66         5.6 Iedalda      8.66    adastis,         6.68        6.66     6.6           6.66     25.33      6.66     25.33        6.8        6.6        6.6        6.6                                         6.6
19  l 81660     uli M81311 98 act. u.  jmdavs    A0.6  a49a.la       129.92    029.92    f29.99            6.66     23.3      36.661   31.66         6.0   359623.    163.9  22685.                                 -        22665.
868a 3366                          lii    CMSC4 IaAIaI      AI       I          1AL S                                                   3643345.6156=)11.1 1659862.24045824.                                     8.1443M646.
14346ICIIR    ICIIVIIIES                  319(8440          MM13       F661  016O3  3*M           3313 COSTS  In81o 13*6*1633                mom366 8316( (in 16316     m            MM   awl3     lot616  C434       18361
Daily  kcamp. baeta3l  lavatoip           MS       Ieet        *oa    Mateal:   tab"r  qE:tpet   total  604(0t615              4*66    661666       Ifflt.     beam)   bI Cmut  3016.          Rut
A d   I   I            pradoc 311        ht          GatW6 (it    33311SVelb.tC.,By                :m8l      408)3     40843     40U4      3664)       40843      30843      36643   inr& qet   lot6          ml86       36
Is 6114331343 RESE*3.46         1.5  las-e  65I3.9       laot)w la.      M 13.2    223.li   410.62      42364.1   1  636.4   A15.66  34553.26  21841.2   331146.31  366463.53 522196.1    541.3   446.12 1321436.1 mus334.2
21  01fi0 RIMSIK 6133.111A.  33.5  easdais 9316.19    am. is          423.59    4239.59    368.66         26.64      25.33     16.26     64.41   68239.5   946143.9.    11434.6  213693.6      -          -                   2166l.
19  Digit SL* IM 0139315(      34.  sauidays 645.66    petetre         1326.6     3326.061    94.26        356.32     25.3S     39.26    214.31, 39841.1   334415.2   5315.6  283368.5          -          .263368.5
66  66669(13.11               3.0  lamkeI   414.14    Ne.ASAIe        365.34     392.51     64.49      8121.63    385.64   3651.23  36569.68 6 386561    35181.6  336943.0  2635269.1    MM.5   3131122  3334165.  531214.6
63tlllO 11668 111.036111COES   56.0  3:a.4.0  4663.96    et.de'.1e       49.18      69.94      3.39        54.92      6.23       9.31     n25    4.32  M'       ' 51.      655.      5T61.    ?19.1       46.69   331116.   143111.8
02  0E1461165303.1$  RI 08    36.6  vall 93 933.1        3o  is         9W.95      366.19      6.22       35.63       ISMf      21.61    39.63    611M9.1      2514.2    5316.      14532.5    1471.6     593.16  04348.1   510313.3
83  6846K  101666661           35.6  easdays 411.66    IraA  fen    243.11         426.35     2e6.43      56.26       25.5      15.66    663.26   2133311191       .6   3224.8  251240.2   313.12    3051.6   46)22.9  265946.2
84  SL1366161011510"If(668    26.6  eaiIda,.  645.66    pet.fil.o      4415.61     015.371    33.62        392.81    25.331   58.41   218.62   312654.3   22363.    4538.   24646.6  356."6    516.69  2615495.  23636.5
""at9361 $SIWN.4669(66        9.6   .u       134.96    too.1am.h     2561.21       6.6       D.66       690.2      59.37    362.21    85.16         6.    .8  6.6          0.         6.1 2561.2       3639.66 4133616.  01311.9
---   - I                      -                                            -
P   Ia6I8801             6436       (I AI C                  386I6(II   1 A    S5235251.19.29951141.81916811.41 693151.9                                                                         5506161.



*131111   K111v11E1I                                          I    I          I    A    L    S      Ml                          L     A *       0    *    (IM                  L     0    0    I  p    a    I    II   I    t11
Daily   kecoep.  Cr..   E.sq. As).Cii.  Sri taos  Sied  huC  6Ram   cc   Stotie Fae    ll              t      o    to    Is IS  Sri  O .  hr   CV    CD4m 15   aU     PC           a3    w    to    Is   let
Cad  *** F  Prod.   bit       lay,   AspI.. Rites byqr.  te~~~~~Vl q .     reng     at. saso          sa    per. Oiper. Opr   pt.O..vt  tstsl  ter  trwtk Irrac  t(O r.t               load, foil,   l. fia.. (rat, tools
lOgi(.1 toll   tel  .431  1.s1  t.1 oll 43  1.3,1  (bogi (.3)  (Notl I I(o.  11b.1 (ia.) ORA. (NO.1 41b01.1 to o.I IND .)  J1111.1 10. I INC.  11.1110.1 CI   10.1 (10.) 110.1 sib. I
l*Is  mat   3.PICATNINS          6.8 a.612 s       2388     1984291 42Sr         B                     a  a                 I aI  aIt 1             I              Isa   2    Its1  is             a 0          a     I     a      a     lIII?
Ill3tAW*SS9U12l3l11*8)a.S lU -t.                   22180            8 I   *3322        8     I      8     8     a      IIt    IS          II  5              * 022       3422            113       8    I       1     81  IS       6     8     8
I2 SIMM   TIf *I8ISMAP.COM        4.8I.a.-t.         a)       0     a     a I                a      a     a     a          a Ia0                 a     a     a     a      11    a     a         a        a      a     I     a      I        II
131 113111 381S111188               lm.S ta.-        141 3266       a      a     811825      a      a      a     aI a              a  a   a           a  a   a6                        3&    a           a8     I            I     I     a    i
14 g1K*s a CCOIIoIlm            18.Ssb       isb     so       8     8     a      I     I     I      I     I     a      a     I a    I*    8     8      8     8     8      8     I            a     I     I      a 8         I a    a     8     2
15 S11AlK*S *1 I*A*                          i6asl tt  331    I     a      *11922      8     I      1     a     a      a     a      2     I     2      a     a     2      3     8     2      8     8a     2     A     8     2      a     I     a
16 811.110,011. p8iliU         l2.*a.eiu.31        a2a    Inl3s itol            I      *8 I              a  a         a I   I            2     *      a     a     I      2  41       a      a     aI    a      2 8         *      *     a    Si
l1 011N-1II.8 11tv MENI1. 12.11  .satsi             384       I     I     1  1219      8     981219 1219         I     I     I      8     1     I      8.8         2         its      2      8     8     a      I     8      1     8     88*
IS  11011-21101111MSP*T11tE111   12.8  g.st Q      ssss       8     8      8 14212     *     a1 1212 14212       1     a    1 Ii        1I    It       e     8    23    33   III?S 23        8     I     I    II      a    It      I     *   413
9It  lIIh8*9*8tisHOSIIACI,11.Ouatdays               a       a     I      a     I     a     I      a     a         a  I     I     a      a     I     a      I     a     a      a     a     a      a     4     0      a 8   8     a      8
28  OIIClfS11huC*1C18Ml3l.   2.8   JAStdt           949       *     I      a     a     a      a     a     a      a     a     4      a     8     I      a     a      3     4    It            a  a  I     a      a           a      I     a    ai
6111C111*8SAM81.8llhI.         *.3 a.d.Sg        8492       8     I      8     8     8      8     8     8      8     *42         a      a     a      a     *28         63 424    28        8     8     I 8          8     I      8     I1132
~LINED lliU(S 10.111111.    1.6110.d.to            83       I     I      I           I 8    8     8     8         8  S     4      8           8      8     8                 42      2     a     I     8      8     8     I      8     8     II
23WE.W*EI AIuMhtAt               3.gcI.  a..         898      I     I      a     a     a     I      a     a     I      a     4 *    *     a     a      a            I     I    44         I     0  8     8      8           8      a     I lit
290111880*83l8188111.Ki.  1.Soaoldars                us8      8      S     8     a     a      8     8     5      a     I      I     I     I 8   *            a     a      a    to     a      8     S     0 8          a     0      *     849
383N*UI3     61U4IAIIONC IN.IFO    .8,sqt.S        3191       8     *      I     8     8     8      I     I     I      826                a     I     I 8    8           6  239       8     *      8     a     I      I 8                0 fill
S1 icmCI*ul*?E 11U1t18Nt  .8.        IWAg.S    189            B     I      I     6     Ii    8      a     a     I      S     I         8  S     8      812         .1    91to         3      I     I     I     a 6    8     8       I         3*u
3*SSllSrAMIill(UIC               14.*saldays         IIII1    S                  I     a 8   12           I 83*41    SI      I      8     0 S          I 8         a aI  I                   I 8      8         I  8               I      I    a* 
18(MINSLIKIINOV*l.     223.11ul..3           299      S     8      8     8     8      8     8     8      8     8      I     8     2     0      I     8     a      6    II     6      8     S     8      2        8         I 1   I     I   C8
ad OINF8 SLlI  AC MIIVII         lt.8so  as           94      *     a      I6 $        85  65 u     8         loss113        8 a    80    8     .            a 8   8      8     9            a 8a               a     I     a 8   8      a12
)l htEatL  fi.18lLw              ls.Bu0    ep        81       8     8      8        0  a     8      I     8     S      8a    2      8     1 3   8      3           3     8      it    3      It   a8     8            8     8      3     8     a                 I
1901818A88111513*I.IV(ACi. 15.8sadays               629          a  I            8        8  I      8     I     8            S     Ia           0  0  a      8     8     8253         S            I8          I 8          a 8   8      8     I
a K885** LLINS                    3.81u5. k           64      8     8      * 288*      *      a     I     8     a      8     0 *   8      8     8     8            4      I     I     4     S      a*    S     8      S     8            8     2
es 1  vl3  Of OU111.DIICI       58.8 116.0..           I      S      S     8     8     8    28      8     8    SI    48      0 8   S      S     8     8      8     8            a     0     8      8     0     a      a     a     I      I     a8
82 8U*I*18583.LS I    iII381.11  Ilal.3                6      a     8      8     8     8   269      a     8 112*       8     I     I      I8  8           8  I     I            8 I         8      8     80    8      8     8     8      08
es W1188111401181Me I.soldsys                        28       S          8  8118           US1      8     84261        8     0     I      I8  8   S          a     I     a      I     8     Of    8      0     a      a     I     a      I *
8I LIKIIOPSIw mlOVE1iI2b.Bsotdays                     34      *     8      *1             41:1      8       112182           8I                                    8     8      3           a     a            Is*    a     *         
e1s W            LWa.Ie8wMK1a1      #.11S.u 11.    218            Ml38     8     831343      8                  8      8     I                  I     8                     2            I 8       I8    8     8     8      S              2
I  8  I     *    ~~ ~            ~~L  S       39  24823893136    185234189    199                             4      5     3      6     5 46         6    38133    251   16          I    23    36     8    38             I 13311
MII)     sepued ammIs .1 maltsrils, w. actwivay, to the pear. Liqoid aspalt referred to hodredtb 9.1l05  soultipll by IN8 to 06tam. totital  m.t lb 9110011.
AtciIselIf, 10.31. 19, 83 aid Of aegure 10 mItict of 8,,Sacsto INC year.
(til Persomel A naser of epspemt salts repired We  activity so tbs pear. stisatin base  as savea   availability of 28  daiysear fwr labat aot m51p81d to Any speif at .qivimayssn,d l38  ayslya  fr eqosput I opsatars.
Ignapaso  codes CV,deo  tr.cti COA,.ats  distf.kalar trcttl t*S,asp6alt distributor truck; NN,qrAdsr  Pt,fraot loadar; IM3,eassial roller; 80 dra. roller; tO, cravlsr trattor; IS, farm luacia, alaaar.
M*ILA8LIE  OS  ICE8IIF.8t..V                                                              - I       C    *0t    10    is    Ori0pr. #W    CV    COA CIa                  C    la18 se       8    Is    do8
S0181111  II I                                                          ano      opt, O .  pe.8r. Owe.  We  kits  lat  truck t It tr aSgrad  loNd  roll, foll. crag. trat. Ntol
I.  La.Sw  ad egtnapet in oeaW satg tooditcsm  at punet. available by   0.6.1I.C.C.9.:                                   18     29    5I    48    1a      8   I3?   122  1698   121      I      8I   2     22      2    39      I     8
2.  (qaipsont oat opeatiog At Prehcott   W. Woer repair:                                                                   I                                                       2      I          2 I    Sl     I    it      I     8
(6) (lids  dm,ckarqet                                                          J29                                                           8      8    8      5      8    12     8      S
Lawe isolorataca provided by 21 aywdatias Ira  a total of 21 aydaataas.
(qn99ipe 11aloroalsol provided by 19 ay.dustiss #oso a total a1 21 irvdaOtlas.



144o1140" attaSlkiNK 3938  KN
totUl hilb3    leqIt  a4  1011t     I 4158.2I                                                                                                                       ewert tus.otmgsse.paw  roem  91q94 I 3598.59 to
own a'i'8.m* btb   Wh ' W144   ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AND HIIGHWAY MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                                                                  and"                      tub3g,t..aoce Lropto
bOAdrelu biltoaIt.ta   bagt.  toqtib  24.4.3  to                                                                                                                    89Odt.1it ,oa9tqMK 9184  Ub .S      6    2.1
DM"w costmtuiom  blaVa.  91094  8.L8   to                                                              1995                                                         b o.v.9  slng law rut  loqtba  3.13   is
Other baouys tatisbt ua.teumelt 4.13  Mt95o11114                                                                                                                                       wa" rat   tttB"             b
13111313411   3W1J3t13               3833338           439311     10311 3113#0K3081          99399tria sS  939r 10311m   tota31         33933914.11 BlII  01  *11931)           usm  wzun iiicft c omi          mio
to   Fm FEU.4F1331              6.0   m *.al 8   615.1   last*  is   1125.95   9rm1255   2815.85          4).31       82.34    192,19    813.4  910M548.9  9423846.9  994#938.3 958)8082                   -                  58119838.2
99  st69       in.Mili9..s3*    8.8  toot-t   HUX.f   Jp.awl-e   1,1811.84   31311.841  238O4                9.22     38.83    183.2    222.45   234961.5  1249121.5  359845.1  4529942.1 7                                    594.
92  KWiuC61IasIU .11cm    4.8  lot-to   599.94            o.1u.ta       228.33     22.1       51.64         3.88      44.34    241.55    299.81        8.8    11198.6    54489.9,   46884       - --68.
94  $N33omI 411831111          90.8  tdr to I 918.48    w.IdAto         819.14     811.14     81.9?          L1.11    95.28     41.52     84.13        8.8   W326.    4911.1   I585.2                                           138581.2
Is  983613Knit98                6.0  Itdr e t3113.481   epi4d.to   9232.814 2325.14    342.36               51.4       3.44     419.5    9in.84   731543.    8143.4  592143.4  9353841.1        -                             3538411.7
36  01.1013 P111               12.8     i .oa  3 O411.15    lastsbl.is   4243.44   414.44    510.92       41.3        44.34     19.99    629.85  435815,4   214146.9  494294.)  59294381        -           .                 529438.3
It 419-O99j4136141,1 30 13.      .8  o.a   3  518.1      tea.laza.ko    2394.71    211.13    249.55         49.61    3U.46      a9.9  15.53   I4O53A    94838.9  211,484.4  45196.5              -                             451941.5
198  M9-893U93M  911191        91.6  q.*a al IS49.12    ap.6590.1s  44241.29   44248.29   3481.35           49.01     39.4 649.99    959.53  22041841.3  9419284.9  3011i.9  43858.2                                  .       613588.2
a9  89418 88338i9L38  xi. 91.8   mUp  2349.12   lha.14.18                 8.83       3.881     8.83          L.8      25.33     83.84    989'.201      0.8        8.8        6.8        8.8           -               -              .e
28  SliCES 41tC9U311 . 131. 2.   .it.bot 8419.91    oat.dat.18    2199.91    2893..?   915.50                3.13     15.8     452.94    531.'         8.8   3918111.2  99895.4  113235.8                                      9252.1Itm.
29  ONlICKS  ON. 133113         8.3  9a.8.. 4419.91    uAt.Alt          246%.5    2444.59   8829.94          8.88    391.15  91131.22   2311.11        8.6  2985835.1  2641832.5  55584481.3     -          -                 5556.3
22  9.U410 831191   3.0139.   OA  lao..As  345.04    Sas.dit.to         591.59     59.59    854.31           8.83    54.1    389.93    853.99          3.8  2891391.2  354361.9  435158.3                   -                  433513.1
.11 (41413  UtiINK             3.8  ct.i. o. 5311.881   te e  D.   2M19.6    21M.%6    938.98               .0.      11.92     It.88    341.94        0.0   219244.5  195531.?  44618.3 ]                                     464982.3
SIm33IAINm 893.963911113        0.8  wupt.t 493.13    wqe.t            n58."      483.41   5121.1            8.88    344.22    242.52    426.15        0.8  9666135.4  9232003.4  281953.0                            .       2819539.8
Is  31136w E9*1908 ClN           .0  veg.tt  4913.1    "W AS.    34818.46  918131.64   29II.:               3.OD      14.81     39.13    33.22         0.8   238139.4  323241.3  54)381.8       -          -                  53381.8 
58  win93  MINUIIC             94.3  ow8days 58.13    trade oh    1863.131   9843.18    933.92             949.91     28.15     41.48    258    21836.2   5191 1. 424338.   458934.4             -                             428994.4
63  11338 19.93 Mom3F         22.6  "t.        i53."     pot.%.M.  19452.58   13452.58    391.56             8.88      2.25      9.6      it 99.8      6.    948113.1   048849.5  849993.                                      6439.
it  1391391. S3OU              93.3  U.ggp    3.63    aywolgaa          155.1    1551.9    583.53           0.83      25.33    954.29    389.55        :.8   999548.8  99191.81     1312598.1   -                     -       1312593.19
12 IICSSAE*KW P   3131          5.3  em/days    L.88    oywdmata          8.3         .1       8.13         8.83      25.33      8.63     25.33        0.9        3.6        0,8        8.8                                          .
n9 8O118 *3131M 919V 811. 38.  swm/p             8.83    soydinasa     63.8         8.8    638.088           8,38     2.33      98.4      34.83        8.8  959421.9   41983.A  224898.8                   -249.
OSS   aIKE               AIRI               AINc I*h uC       0  169a                                                         91S6A41928.0811168553.39314b522.241213192.3                               .4l53.
133l31m     AC? I13 E 195                  39138            AM36       FORCE am;1l  0OKS          Eml COIlS ey8 FOR  CE 11339                 91334 9a06l 481031 FOU       I)       AIDWL 33911  l81 1313811         3091.
haill    ecuop, hiatuty  lovotory        M8        hoot!       Anvl   flteral.  LAWe   EIgqte.t  total  190111119*L             tun0  11391191       3039.      hfaul  bt (si    3031.          84960
od   88   0             peodK   tbat      Othis       lbt    SwiiMIII  Sart bat Crow  Day    (l031            (lot)I  9la")    (l3ll    (M0i             33089     93339      t33      o     qut   (M8)    4883           33839
93 DI 3839933 RES501.116        9.  lis-ta  8415.15    Cars13  is    45.22         195,36    138.24      92934.13    4)4.5   9152.83  34553.28  23831483.4  120452.0  34228.3  204228.8   4W5.S   449611.12 l953581.4 13296M64.
29 clime 303596  13)31.811.  33.5  mdas9449.19    3.. It               4481.31    4481.31    39.23          20.8)     25.33  198.24       64.49    91339.4   9311.9A   83151.8  28315946        -                     .        289359.
69 tm 0   SLIM8 ao vl 81V93S  94.8            6%/ay    5.83    po.s9.ti    9441.88    3441.113   M833X    958.12    25.31    39.20   2W4.S   291225.3   346431   54135.9   393423.2             -                    -         W823.2
M3  96316 9.9.93                3.8  la  o.9    19.48    to.1046o          .3  8.      38.0    8.83       8123.33    18S.d    9454.23  18549.83        8.8         .   6.8  8.3         8     .8 0.63 3733.22            8.8        8.8
89at  33 U 161 Of IR3.0310     5.018a.01.e  4411.9       *At.dt.        361.34       13.41      9.44        54.92      0.231     9.31     12.52     4335.       484.9      488.5    5320.8   293.81        488.61   943422.4   948959.
82  Ff149334 81.11  a 3930911  318.0  all a) 9449.71    Ia..o            942.55     983.59      4.23       351.69     13.12     21.41    391.39    64143.1     2581.8    5234.2   15238.8   154.84         593.14   441123.9  522944.1
83    IO 8336     NM8143       35.8   aid      5318.13    top, Me    2215.65        415.93     3.' I       588.28     25.133    15.44    43.26   221494.8   33539.1   34431.3  213663.3   9823.52    1351.04  992533.1  2919496.9
84 SLIC4ISLWIS 913139933    24.  us/days  450.88    pat.s3.ma    4551.43           998.28      35.1        1992.1     25.311   53.41   28.462   9155419    23844.3   4588.4  244523.4   3449.92           516.39  20M181).   2342$32.6
8545 031 1911P399 11914131   9.8  A.Sks.93  591.94I   t1.o0.1a    214.81       8.83      O.,        498.32      59.92    9221      8511 9.18  - 8.6         3.6        8.8        3.8  2314.81    1831.60  3999614.4 13999614.4
P 089I0 091                 *613A I         341C1 1aM           I0 18a15                                                          39958914383689.15412.8 411,1625.8                               298434. 3399891a.4 
a3338 A49.                AI             t0      I      03 1 1  3   08811                                                       1 I22853131.4 18471194.8 111132435. 1 513253.31                   2914812.4 0133394.8 jco.-



WAMS Kw= m FOU AMM ON" no lm ma
I        a     t     6   U)                                  8        4     a     III)
Wail    ktolo.   ti        Lig.         las. Sra  Fine  Uw    Calca6rao. Co    Stm          t- mi   K        20    10.  IS    on             NW        LV    COA  cvs    a   Pt                       Is    Kk
Cad        laof                hodK    out        D"        k66.           . vtl grav.          ttm        141. ant       m    apti. apt -       -     -     . m         is  ttr  tr    trat itock grid. load. tell. fall.           trat. tools
liki        loll  (all (031 1fall  1831  1831  tbiql fall  lbil tva. I fft.1 t1a.1 IND.) W I (no.) 410.1 4110.1 4b.1 lb.) lb.) lbJ  11b.1 ISOA  fib.) fft.1 two.f lb.1
Is  am    i FUNAION              4.0  4.618 03    2915    239 gym    IIM         0     0     1      0     a     0      1    14     4      I     9     4      9    19    25   213    19      0      2     6     4      9     0     8      0 38i
It tmpmu  So  AIII.IGWI  9.1  lm-to                2384       1     6     a  Wh        I     G      6     0     1      4    It    Is      1    13     0      0    23    59    21      1    13      I    is      I     0    15     I      I     I
SMIFIUIIufw .KEM             4.0  lm-to          V        a     I     9      I     a     6      a     I     9      a     a      I     I     a      I     I     I     I      0     0     0      0     1      0     0     0     4      I     I
binStODS REStfttlra          1.1  tat-to         IS111  2810    0     0      11101119    1      a     0     0      1     6     I      I     I     I      0     4     4    14      1     6      I     0     Il    8      0     4      I    u
14  smmis etcmillm               111.111 %Mdr to      el      0     0      a     0     1      8     I     I     I      a     0      0     0     a      9     I     a     0      1     A      a     0     a      I     I     I     a      a     2
Is  SNWAOM    WAIA               36.8  tkidt to      342      0     a      I 123n      I      I     0     8      I     I     I      2     1     2      6     8     2     A      0     2     9      0     2      1     0     2     0      0     0
16  bit. itomm    "In=           12.0  6.811, 03    53       05  6241 8321       a     I     a      4     a     a      4     2      0     1     1      a     I     I      6    is     3     0      1     0      1     1     3     2      t    61
10  M-Diltwain  PAICN.   12.0  t.sat as              m        0     4      I    "ll    I      I    "B    "O      0     2      I     0     a     t      I     I      1     2    12      1     0     0     6      I     0     4      a     0     13
to  Mo-ettLat"          FAIUM    12.1  O.Gat 03    UV                I     a lull      I      0 14149 14141      0     a    to      6    12    12      a     8    24    u    104    24       a     I     11   12      0    12      0     a 4ti
It  4)1=    sownRoas Ki.  11.0  "Odap                  I      a      I     a     I     I      0     0     0      8     11    0      1     8     0      4     I     I      a     I     0      0     4     8      s     I     a      I     0     4
R blims NEDWAM              me.   2.9  44t.d.to    im         0      1     a     0     0      8     I     I      9     0     5      6     I     0      1     8      3     5    29     3      0     8     &      0     0     8      I     0    fil
21 elm"  raw    rAtinix           0.3  Dat.d.ke    out               0     0     0      1     1     8     8      0     8    14    11      I      I     I     0    29    U    441    29       0     1      8     I     4     I      a     11116
n LIKO litcos =.Min.    8.6  1115.6.110              Of       0      9     0     0      1     2     I     0      4     0      4     0     0      0     11    0      2     6    42      2     0     0      1     0     8      I     I     0      0
21 VAINI mimfou                   3.8  telv. a       113111    0     0     0     0      8     0     0     0      0     8      4     0     1      0     a     I      I     1    46      1     0     0      2     I     0      0     1     0 124
19  otille main  istio.Ki.  11.3  ow"                "O       0     0      a     I     I      0     1           6      9     2      6     6     I      0     0     0     8    It      I     I      I     s      I     0     8     a      I        S.,
So  nmk  IEGFIUIOK cmfA    0.0  Ve"t.ke    sny                I      0     O     0      8     0     0            0     a    20      4     a     I      I     I     9      1   296     9      I     0     6      a     I     I      I     I 16.1
latm-OIUIUM   CM&%    0.4  Vwt.&O    lilt                 0      0     a     0     0      6     a     9     I      0     2      8     a     I      0    14     S    to    21      1      6     I     I      0     8     I      1    14    u
ttiou  olll"Aw               14.8  swoop         133      0     0      1     1     0   "a       0     11320        I     I      0     2     S      0     4     0      t     I     I     I      0     0      1     0     0     a      I     0
be  tBll SLIK  NEWitL           MA   "t.63           311       0     1     8     0      1     0     0     0      0     a      I     8     2      0     1     1     a      7    15     6      Ii    0     8      2     1     8      I     9     a
69  OIKI RIDE Klivitu$           14.1  saidw         In        I     I     9   620      a   6n      I     12"?  1241         9      I     0      0     8     I     0      1     1     4      0     0     6      I     I     4      I     a     It
It aueuii slow                   13.0  "aift"        $111     I      0     8     I     I      a     I     0      9     0     2      a     3     a      3     0     3      0    17     I     IS     I     I      S     0     a      3     0     0
rdtinam ff ism               La ow&"               I   0   8                 O   a   I                                   9   9   0   1   1   9   a   0   0   a   I   I   0   0   1   4   I   0 0
AMMMIIVE Act. IL$ ow4als  &M    I   I                                              a
Le  law is           9      I     I                  0     0      1     0     0      a     0     a      I     I     I      8     0     0      0     a     a      I     0     0      8     I     I      6     a
iliN  OF WMAIRM            MA   116.4.0           I      0     2            I     9    21      0     0    le    u       I     0      0     0     0      6     0     e      0     0     a      I     0     0      S     I     I      0     0
lotatin =LS 11 11~        31.0  "all 03         6       0     0     0     0      0   271            4lilt       i      I     a     I      0     0     0      0     6     0      1     0     0      0     0     a      I     I     0      0
0    WW" o               ILO  sooldt"         so       0     0          102     0   In      8      04ut        0      0     9     I      0     0     0      0     0     1      0     1     a      I     0     0      1     1     0      4
lKnm s low"               26.8  Amard"s        35             I     1   429          43      I      0        A    11411  0   0     a      a     0     a      a     I     I      0           1      8     I     0      6     I     I      t
SM.I*M slo               9.0  4.0tt.as  no           ulil                                      I          51           0     11    11    11            I          I       I      I    I     I      I     I      I     I     1    24
11    a                                            I    ;I         ;I  I-  a
ml no? ml? sn                                                      I                                                                   I           VI    ,I    ,I    &I
0     1     a     L      S                              I     I   n  13319  2114 1374911374101129991 21231  15:1   26    311   411    61   14   ltel  261114131  1211   141           1   '61                              41 slill
11) ""It'go alftaf, of "torkals, M activity, la M fear. Li"td #%*It r0orted o W**M gilm-, lwlttply by IN to obtato tatd ~t to qatoasl.
activttgn ft.". 59, a md 04 14vice me ntim" of I SKI$ la at VW.
(oil Pasomi a not" of MP"" wits "trod w activity to tbt year. Estimates M" a swap availability of M day0year for law ag mtpO to ny swific "Wpowt,sail 12 dMiles for O"spmt I aWaters.
igespent coast CVdw tnicis 1:011,04iff disitabotor crock$ C011104vull dksttiktor tmk$ m.gron; K,frod lowwl Oft'dioust tollwi to di" rallwi 10, crater tractorl IS, form, tratter dsow.
amtmu    KSM        S  n                                                             Fwo- M        K     RO                 kg           Nor    cl    COA                            to    to    Is   1611
$mm         I11)                                                              ow. ow    ow          Om     Ow.  ver    is  ker  tius         trat grid. low. fall. all. rw    im. tools
1. tdw  od opipat to oWdoq coostims at promil available by    0.6.1I.C.C.Ce                                              lot    n      Si    41    lb      I    151    In    lb"                      25    22      2    n      I     0
2. (wernt am owatmq at pimtg    tal eaw    ("41(t                                                                                                                                                     22    to      :    21      1     0
ib) own disebult:                                                                                                                                         12     3           I      I     I
tobw toloragetwim pandW by 21 spdolin kw a toUt ol 21 ajoilatios.
Orool" by It ~iAs hoo a taisi of 21 ep"tlas.



1*6.8 liglua   look1 to tt    a  3415.131s                                                                                                                     bAder  0t.ai 4.ualu.04r0  MOOS lpqt6 a 3514.018 ts
gofdir .aahtaset6awbaloop5I 438.661*   ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AND HIGHWAY MA&INT NANCE BUDGET                                                                     VA"t                      tub5f*5t~5     toad,laiI 11116.86 la
b51      481u6i15 Iathu  bip  4aug1   ms     I.                                                  196                                                              utauaSal u4aa-gaOO  roads ltIumlh  7Z11. 656
SUtRF  kcoe. haulvtp  D...uI             m                    6AiaI    Otieu*t  I'l,10w Ipapwo t 13.                lots186  too8  (69211         19106.    lasl   Lbat toat  12102         63
2.0        6*86              Prow    bot    bll            ba0 0t   Nulhlls  w  bat ris  DOT           6881      ft346     15946     18916    4801    I 161         CR(o4i6l (tat I(1366"a                    (R 4oSa     161
is  on8~ ffaM06 I6351          .6 ..o 6.381803  .?1   8aib  to  3835.A    21835.8   333.64              6181.31    82.14    112.16   613.03 23158532.81 164819,14.1  2258l.5 1149168.2                -1411.
I8  3wm        .*616l.266l  8.8  las-Is  2314.1?   uG.Ineaih o 15.3?   18152.32   nu5."6                 62.2      391.11   1322L     ).4 29     161.AS5  685188.1  $191964.8  0216415.3    -                   -       184M5
a) gott.tgawnso.ac             4.0  1mt-to  194.616   tso.10.48        42.16      42.16     I6.69         6.88     44.34    241.155   29.99        8.8    86194.8    151.    12481.6                                     I1741.6
is USlEI  UCSDIII             IL.8  abldr to 11166.96    up.std.ke    912.41    9612.41     96.24        61.118    15.211   69.5      64.13        8.6   64,629.6   669l2.5   61546.2                                     6)54.1.
IS 6310661 AFFAIR             36.8  01iSEto 18119.96    up.skid.19   03564.94   2358.94    315.13        519.8      6.44     46.55    239.841  388)-6.6 141.   54)192.9  14134)6.1    -                                  483416.1
it  821.itn363 nu"81          12.6  4.ui as   S? g36883.1 1 i shI    1916.11    1916.13    859.68       69.3.2     44.34     19.19    812.15 138112ll.9   64969,)  256112.2  15140311.4                                 S101486.4
01 63-II R&WE   96613.  62.89.6 q.3do   294.66    twaa.l e            918.39    9131.36    88.85         49.91    31.66    69.99    151.53    46391.5   39128.6   63,923.1  I411182.~                                    111132.6
66 U3601I63   P*(3             2.6  I.eat .3 2341.12    up,sbbE.0   5126.26  53:284.26   4433.68         4.9.6     32."     6.99    211.5  203J441.0  1*48961.6  U312382.5  886221.2                             -       1862223.
89 sun9  61306i3906  8(1. 61.8  no""p  734.1?    s,.Is.s                8.8        80.8      61.881       8.88     25.33    613.66    1819.211     8.6        8.          . .9              - 0.                 -            6.9
28  81138  11C2=C3 8665.  2. 664i.4.ks 4986.65    sat.ddt.ls   2621.96    2121.96   M63.981               8.8      95.62    652.94   5471.96       8.0  28269,4.4  963855.2  t"11669.6                                  116684.6
;I 86118s am6  Nu1nn.    6.3  s.*t.16 4110.65   .uI.i1A.&C   266.85    28616.85   P351.58                 8.88   11897.95   1681.22   21199.11     8.6  363891.6 288941.9  58991483.5       -          -1-389313.5
i1 1211  slims$  MIMI13.   6.6  I**.6.%.49.4 ou4        11. AaO.to    538     m.12 58.1     41.86         6.189   548.91    361.13   8150.12       8.6  2191212.6  I13195.1  4)2460.3                                    432469.1
31686  S6811M             1.8  caile. s. 5624.881    tlwtt a.   2118.58    71111.581   9126.69       0.88     91.22     18.88    161.14       6.6  269961.9  194111.1  464319.6        .-                           464339.16
A         *glum1619 (9813    8.8  v996.10 4394.88    vspl.be         439.36    4139.U36 924.2             6.88    364.22    262.52    462615       6.6  1126195.0  1244228.1  2918415.8    -                            29161415.1
,I 11163*0.16F3113(131886   9.8  "gt.to 439.68    vwt.1.            11321.16   61324.16   2265.59         6.88     14.8      M9IS    33.22         6.6  244268.68  331554.9  5158614.9      -                             15824.9
89818mum 8661163              64.8  omidap  56.0    6.8311166.5                  61.85    656.56        64.M       28IS    61.68    245.82   314439.4   620?6.1  204263.2  52828.           -                    .       51828.
A SAM 61381K 88618           22.  ul6         U.3       89.65.s.   22136.315  12936.25    324.16          0.38      2.2       9.63     11.88       6.6  664112.3  182164.9  8668121.2                                    96611821.1 
)I 861618   1651              2.  .ala           .08          I~sdia  156."    1560.6    S11.53           6.38    25.33    151.21    2821.55       8.6  191550.1  22669169.6  1312519.1                                 ISUS111S19.
22 UC1sflAI of "a(1            5.  saildajrs   6.38       idsti         81.188     8.88      63   0.8       8 L   25.!:      81.681    25.33       8.6        a.   6.8               .                .                       .6
Inu125      68152619  LI.  13.  omla           6.38    a3uatta    62991.99   629.99    629.99            8.3      25.33     I8.6      36.18        0."I92.    61181.6  226681.5.                                         2601.
a-0-a-II-a-Iaa  II-IIa  a a- I                       I     I-a-                                                                                                                                      -
hail   knoa. haitatp  lswssIay    33K            ksl         b l         terals   dabo    (quipoqa     tls11*    MIMI186   1t6o   (63918         118       bow      bit C"t   (0186        08108
ENd       NA6L                                 omii    a  its  SiR1   611115Su  batCI:  ilays    6884            181       (ull      (60t1    6606)       lul       26"S6      (60i)   awl quai   10681       lull        tull
siS 82116  33818618          8.5  lawi-be 688.1    Call* to    631.88          696.26    (21.48     27184.13   616.54   l152.66  14553.211 23285803.6  111821.8  33688.01 2281134.4   44.98   446681.121 88869642 221884.6
29 911   1L06664    65afe   118                          m    .       45.4      4551.54    395.18        28.82     35.31     618.26    64.41   94132.2  665323.81   631291.6  2928.IMI                                    968.
6901119 86111 11ivlI9ls       24.6  saiEap   661.88    pot,sI.u.    1446.6    1446.01   6631.281        158,12    25.33      39.28    214.65   2616814.6   366,31.1   56695.9  316438.6     -                            $18488.4
a8  I6916.IM                   3.8  fewr km  405.96    fo..I.6.    445.96    M2."0          14.32      0121.13    683.81   1656.23  36569.88  59459541.9   41432.1  369383.8  2356,6941.9   22.98   23366.22  3861,211.46186.
81  1116  M883.sl138        56.8  lisf.s, 66.61   sa.41t.ka    39.1             118.15     6.5         54.92      8.26      9.31     12.52    4292.5      643111     132.4    5668.5   362.42    438.69   1571110.1  2564,41.)
8    1611331  56l wt  I (II 1  36.0 sal.395.88    law. is            94.24      6981.841   6.36       353.62     23.32     23.61    399.62    46258.6    2669.9    521.9   I1651.1   16.39         513,1&1  453220.   529436.6
NICKl   I8831131            25.0  "ailp   569.88    b.sdqu ans   255.13        516.8      34.63       5081.28    MI.S    35."6   682.28   MI5393 162934.8   1062.3  386959.9  2142.32    2853.64  2161651. 1  2461111.1
8 SILIMILUUW1  606319126.81 smdp   41.38    pol.sLove,  4618.91    9125.39                  35.53        M9.82     25.3,   56.46    216.62   2386114.4   23496.4   46569.6  24865.5  3695.60           16.291 2129659.2  23111819.8
65MM126I S . 86866111 1~  .6                  1111s3*8.6    400.l0.1   V-389       6.88      66         698.37     59.82    862.21    859.16       6.8        0.6        8.6        6.6   589.6   16839.18  9313563.2  913163.6
a880IFa61I  6686                 a1I18880  Cl               69      6  (1                                                    24"US26.4289686.689615.35 45111S                                             11116698 2511.4



umumis 8131 un   FOR dm  tC3aI emOM  Is  33k 94 UBAtmiMINNOP308
urnuninwctAt81vnus                                 mo                    t       t.   I   (nL                                        IB         III)                   C   00 aIP   NEt                        PI         (411
Baily   NOvoep.  Ct.u   Laq. AsI6.1citl. Ga  fine  Sai  CcaBr 6a. LV   Staneis. an   PC   fi   It.  is   Ct Bpw. I                               v  cm c mOCO    13   nC   Ota  LO    to   is   lEft
cod        B                  hamiPrd    blt    Oaye   Bay. fivst  OAr. vtlIs m~           (taus fl3. seat           uan  owt. owi. Spit.  pt.ow. wi  Ousti  1St  ICU& Itoci t(tOt  grid. INA., rol,. fall. (LIt. trt. tools
3@5q3 fell (tcl  (ii (3)  (.33 fall Jei  1.31  ("aIf (all  (NOah INo. IND.) IND.) lbe.) 1130.  N.1 a .) too ito. I lb.) lbO.) (NO.1 (NO.1 IN.) lb1.) (30.3 (NO.3 (NO.1143.)
toBSPi8I ffN.aidilIM            .@a4.61ii3    33121  261 252012             B     S     0     S     a     a     S    la      I S        I I    a     0  2223   25          22      3     I     S     53  It    I              @445
to 3NPO81LS1.BUiU.t BSO)  .@iaei,o               nu5       B     a    @338         B     S     S    S      B     .3It35             1 (5        I0      2ll      5    22      ?135         @3 IS            I   is       I     Ia 
I2 SCIFiCUOUM21.51d3 4.a3in*Bo                     II      B     B    0         a  I           a    a      a  a         a     a     I     I    a      a     a     a     I    a      a        a  I     I      I           B     I0S
Ish3lm,in REMAI                 i.s  *s.-         321 2815       a    a      031312      a     a     a     a     a    S      I     I a   a    a      a            43If    3    a          a     a    a            a     a     als
34 u3.BI1sBL m3iBNs            l.0 bidu)          3       a     a     a     a     a    a      B     I     B      B    S      0 a   a     a    a    a                a        a     a    a      a    a I          a     a     a      3
Is  11k811   RE03Il            SB.@v$bidr o       315      0        0    13504    B         0        S     S     B  0  0      2     1    2    5       0     2    &      3     I    0      6     2     I    0      2    0    S        a
14S31l.IENUS81t01C013          12.Sa.euui         353     25 i314 25         0     *     *     a     *     a     a      aI    a     S     I           a           2  12             @     @     *     *    a            a     a 0   it
hf111-SIf.EUBOCPOWL   1.gg1.u4:a)a                 a          a6    032 1    a           @a323   US        a  0         0     S     S0    0    0      I     S     0     4     B    I      B     a     S     0    6      a      sia
to  N-el 3UUIOtC@3U    12.3  G..at 3    4433                  0        0)11134     S    @ 17334 U734       B      B    22     B    11    14     I    0    23   44  223   23         0     a     a    It    0    It       I     ISol9
IIBKSOlin       uS.19 813t.  1.I.ahaSW"S                         S     B              0  0                 S aa a  II   I 0 0 1     6     I     I     a     a     a     I    a      a     a     a        I  I            a 0aa
20  BILVSS1 3C81tAL         .   l.1  ut.#.o.    lb]3       S    I      B    I      @0    a     a     S      a           5     7     I S    B    a    a            5    23     3    0            a I               a Ia 0            20i
2lBtiE1s am  3flE0              S.Ssetd.t.i    3353        S    6    a    a           a        a     I     9        44 6a           I     I     I    0  33       II46  3 1 S I            I     I     I     I     a     a  0  @24
22 LIMB flVME5.0110.    3. Ine.d.BM                4       I     a0 5         B O B            0     8 1 1        s           0 a   a           111    a    2       42       2    S      S     I 0   Ia           a     I     I     I
231  1W5153&"Ila                3.Sviulv. .       32       I    I    I       I        0        5 I    I     I           4     0 a   *     @    *            I    3    44      i    S      I        I         I     I     I S   1123
2BBowl 0ImSKUmiUL. 1.5 aIgas"  33a5                                     6 0  0 1090  aI0    20                                                                 aIa u s   ails             a   so    as    S aI
3aWMlm8VE6IAIf1I m= Ia .ae.ptJt    53204                   I     a        I A            0     S    S         0  123                0     S        0  5           123 31            B     I     I     I    I         0        8103
S3EIULKOB3NU 3WI.IveqetJ    2130    0   S   S   5   0   a   a   I   S   B   2   B                                                 I   a 034   3332o   1                     S   0 I   I   I                0       345It1i
50S0 iU3uIEu              14.Sfaddys         35       5     S    S      S    BIO go             634144      B     II          I     I     I     I      I    I      I     I    S      0     01    I     I    0      a     a     I 
[O?SLIM1nowk             lZLSu. mS.          324      II       0 S      S           I 0         I B   S            1    B      2     5     I    I    4          136      &        0        S   0             5      3    6      I
433E SlLdI33KIjIIIES      14.Soa             III$ I0        a     a   6143    a 0433      S    5Ms23 Si    S0                  a     0     B     S     0     I    5      a    0      0     5    S    S       I     a     I     Is3
1iMf         MumRh             13.Seadae           03         I  a     a           I     S     I a   I     a            0           3 0   3    0      3           6    3      3     SS  0             31   0      5   3 ISI5                          o
12    CES0           SSEINCEL    S.laf4ys           I      a     a    0    a       a     a     a     a     a     a     *      0 a    o    a    a      *     .    *      a     a    a            I e   a     a    a      a     e 
13B  EOUNIS3SBII*  i. 1J. .Sn                     USp2    S     1    B               0     0              5    I  I   3I    0    0       S    8      8     4     @2  0             85    S     U I   I           B     B  0        I
UUGB      II%l                  3.S3toubh          14      S        I  032511      S     S  0     0              I    a       B aS  0              1              3 I         3     S    0      0 I I             5 S  8      S      2
el ti3MWs  3S.SmiUIf    $19   USAo.                 3      a  I  a                 S    22     0     6    is   43      B      a     I     I     I     I     a     I     I     I  0  S    0      I     I     I    3      aI    I      I
v23f3O3UIU4LSa bvs    U's I t ll3                   4            I     6    S        21        0     @145        a      0     B        a      I             B  0        I     0     S     I     I     I    0      I     I     a     I
III atoEm ""wllM               I5.1                sop  3  II    I    121          02          I     osiss       a     a      0 a         I    0            I     I     I     0     5     I     I    I      I     I     A     a5     4
B4 SLIOEIMSLSflIWIBIKI2O.Oald                      35      S        0 52       54      24      8       Ifl46832        0      5     S     0    0         S  I     S     3    5    B       S     I    0      I     I    B      I     4
BSSI   SW.1N5681&?    9.0a.e1.u3                   Si4      656 5"              3413           I     0     I     11   11   111   S    S               el   O  0  I      41   6         I              I   S       a    a 0  S
I     0     3    A    L       S                I   35225222Mimi   3l U1l6in2  2411o itm             13312131  351I  2l. 381  41    I    34   358'  2611   u 3530   3 6 13   aI  24    301 I 3I  I5                1  34134191
lotI"seqred a~ts of ustirals, Per activity, iona lb  ear. liqid AeIall referrud to lawdrilfde  gal."  3.3tapIy by fee to obtain total"w nta 44ien lsi.
ACtSIvA90 fti3050. 59. 83 ad 84 rMICIP n 00tiint. Of 0 SKIS an the yea.
1)13 Pirsemil S mOMAN of sqapeot ansh requie  p  actvilay to the yea. Eutaeates baud an "rmap availabilitypof 2M  daslyeat for laSer cot altipe   to say apialsc eowapaeml.d IN dayvyear (Wr eoapnal I operatrs.
1403p50 C01111 CV,i ttUSkg C01uatm11r du$tratkt traKt; CONM,aspbiait dtsutibelrtnr mud ongradei KC,frot ludmt BIl.uaeal (033ff; SO dras rotlol 30, tractor tractor; IS, Pita tractor algteut.
OSO3A8E KSB3CS D?B.6.11A.C.O.                                                    ao -         nC    Ba          is IS orttSp.  lot  CV    COI CONS   U    (C   VA    .             10    I     Nit1
53mm? (33                                                            on  Sw  pit.B . (per. Spi. Oe.V"  Suis  et"  tsV%i trt truk pad. load, toll, roll, r.  trat. toolt
3. Labor ad eqopuot tn aqestaoq condvlias. at prosta, navalablp byf  9.6.N.C.C.ij                                  38o    29   Si    48   36       B   351   322  3638   323     5     B    25    22      2    3      ?
2.  Equipeet not opalertn  al pintat   lot bider repair                                                                                                                    2     6     @     2     S b   irOsage  23   0    12   58  I   31 I
LAWt aImfrmatino kw-,   d by 23 "Woanuaa  #ro  a otda) of 23 ayodatae.
Eqoupeut anlornatam presided by 39 SIayutias (rca a total 0o2 If Adatil,



MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1"1 - 1996
Summry Costs
Rout4ao(1)          S.eallno(2)*       Surf.Prop.o(3)    Surf.Impr.(2)+(8)*   Periodic (4)          Total (1).(4)
RD8      USE        RD0      US8       RD8         US6    R06         USS        RD0     U5          1108      US8
'iYear        (Million)            (Million)            (MliIIon)          (Millon)            (Millon)           (MlliIon)
192         57.8       7.6      20.0       8.8       5.6       0.7       84.8       4.6      47.6       6.8    166.1        18.0
1993        4C.1       6.9      86.9       4.0       4.9       0.7       41.6       5.5      60.6       6.06     O.6        12.6                -
1994        44.0       6.9      28.2       8.1       4.6       0.6       27.6       8.7      42.0       3.6      66.6       11.4
Total      147.0      19.8      66.9      11.7      16.0        2.0     108.0      18.7     149.3      16.4      207.8      87.8
1992-94
1995       47.8        6.2      20.5       2.7       4.0       0.5      24.6        8.2      88.0       4.4      66.8       10.0
199B        47.6      6.8       20.0       2.6       0.9       0.1      20.9        2.7      86.0       4.7     e6.7        11.0
Total      241.9      81.6      40.6      17.0       4.9       2.6       46.4      19.6    209.4       27.6    461.         69.4
1992-98
o By contract.
D X..
0 



-72 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Rural Roads
1.       The rural roads network under the responsibility of the SEOPC
comprises a total of 14,146 km out of which about 300 km. (12.12) are paved
with asphalt surface treatment. Maintenance of this network is carried out
by the General Directorate of Maintenance (DGM) through a sub-directorate
at the central level and by the same personnel and equipment which
maintains the highway network at the district level. (See Annexes 3 and 4).
2.       In 1985, 12,962 km of rural roads (91.61 of the network) were
invrentoried, showing that 34Z of the network was impassable. Since then,
the situation probably has improved, owing to works financed by AID and
IDB, but there is no data on the actual condition of the network. In
addition, the personnel in the districts is not even aware of all the rural
roads in their district which belong to the SEOPC network. Moreover, a
study financed by CIDA, under the supervision of IDB, considered that only
9,138 km (out of the total 14,146 km) were viable rural roads, or roads
with at least minimum engineering standards and not duplicated by parallell
roads. This means that about 5.000 km of rural roads, not considered by
the study as viable roads, could be excluded from the network to be
maintained by SEOPC. At present, DGM estimates that about 10 of the rural
roads network are only trails and cannot be considered as roads to be
maintained by SEOPC. Therefore, it is necessary as a first step to
determine the optimal size of the rural road network for future maintenance
plans. In addition, it is also necessary to review the state of each rural
road, given the reconstruction and rehabilitation works carried out from
the date of the last inventory, and the change in condition of other roads
due to weather, traffic, etc.
3.       IDB financed from 1980 to 1984 the reconstruction of 700 km of
feeder roads and the engineering designs of additional 2,000 km. At
present, IDB is financing the rehabilitation of 983 km. with two loans
amounting to US$20 million and total project cost of US$28.3 million. The
criteria to select the feeder roads to be reconstructed or rehabilitated
weres  i) provide access for agricultural products to regional markets; ii)
provide access for rural population to major urban areas; iii) alleviate
traffic conditions by improving the poor state of the roads; and iv) avoid
parallel roads in the same area. This project will be completed in 1990.
A new project is being prepared to rehabilitate another 1000 km. with a
loan of US$19.2 million and total project cost of US$27.5 million.



- 73 -
Page 2 of 3
4.       As a consequence of these projects, about 700 km of rural roads
are now asphalted; these 700 km. will meet better geometric and surface
conditions than many regional and local highways. For this reason, it will
be necessary to re-classify the entire network (highways and rural roads)
in accordance with the actual characteristics and functions of each road.
It is interesting to note that one of the main reasons for asphalting these
feeder roads has been the lack of maintenance service by SEOPC. This
factor has caused the paving of roads regardless of the traffic requirement
of a minimum of 150 vehicles per day which is needed to consider a road
asphaltable.
5.       In addition to the IDB projects, AID financed the rehabilitation
of 900 km of feeder roads between 1982 and 1987 and now is financing
routine maintenance of 2,000 km. This financing serves for the acquisition
of some small road equipment and tools. The counterpart funds are
allocated to pay about 700 roadmen. These people are appointed for routine
maintenance works by local communities (Agricultural Committees) and they
use the equipment and tools acquired under AID financing, but their
salaries are paid by SEOPC. Each roadman, with the corresponding tools,
maintain between 3.5 and 5 km. per annum and, consequently, a total of
about 2,500 to 3.500 km can be maintained every year using this method.
The roadmen carry out maintenance activities such as surface routine
maintenance (mainly patching with granular materials), drainage maintenance
and vegetation control. The AID project will be completed in 1990, but
this type of routine maintenance will be continued by SEOPC in the future.
6.       Periodic maintenance of rural roads is carried out by DGM's force
account but frequently is based only on user's claims or local authorities'
requests. Since there is no documented control of these activities, it is
not possible to know neither the resources allocated to this periodic
maintenance nor the length of the network annually maintained.
7.       In recent years, SEOPC has created new small mobile units, called
Oflotillas', for periodic maintenance of rural roads, working independently
of the ayudantlas (sub-district divisions), under the direct orders of the
district chiefs. At present, there are 15 of these *flotillasa working
satisfactorily and it is expected to increase this number in the future.
Maintenance activities carried out by "flotillas" are patching and surface
improvement, re-gravelling, and maintained ditches and culverts. Table 1
shows the units of each "flotilla" and Table 2 shows the annual operational
costs of this equipment, assuming 250 working-days of 8 hours and 70Z of
equipment utilization. It is estimated that each "flotilla' may carry out
20 km. a month of periodic maintenance, which means 3.600 km by year. As
in the case of routine maintenance, there is no program for this work.
Therefore, the length of the network maintained by 'flotillas" and roadmen
(para. 5 above) is between 6100 and 7100 km.
8.       The approved budget for current expenditures on rural roads for
1989 was RD$12 million (US$1.9 million or US$134 per km) for the whole road
rural network. However, as in the case of highways, there is no record of



- 74 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
the funds actually spent in maintenance activities. It is also very
difficult to know which rural roads received maintenance service with these
funds, because the sub-directorate for rural roads is practically non-
existent and its function is limited to organize and monitor the activities
of the roadmen involved in routine maintenance. However, it is estimated
that about 6.000 km of rural roads are receiving some maintenance on a
limited basis. The rest of the rural road network is practically
neglected.
9.       As a conclusion, maintenance programs prepared in a similar way to
those of the highways network are needed to carry out adequate rural road
maintenance programs. To do this, a first step is to update the rural road
inventory, establishing the physical condition of the whole network. A
second step is to re-classify the roads, transferring to the highways
network the rural roads that have sufficiently high standards to be
considered regional or local highways and excluding from the rural road
network those rural roads which are only trails or duplicate unnecessarily
other roads. For these two tasks, the project includes financing for
technical assistance, estimated at US$200,000.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
SEOPC's "Flotillas" Equipment (19902
Flotillas/Units  I II III IV  V VI VII VIII IX  X  XI XII XIII XIV XV
Total
Tracks             7  7   7       7  5   6   6   5  5   5   5   5   5  5    87
Motorgrades        11    11 1      1    1   1   11    1   1   1   11              15
Front-End
Loaders           11    1   1  1         1   1   11    1   1   1   1 1            15
Rollers             1 1  1 1 1 1 11 1 1  111 11   5S
Iractors           1           1      -   -   1   -  -   -   -   -   -  -           3
Water-Trucks       - - -  --  - -   -   -  -   -                           1        4
Pick-Ups           -  -1   11                                                       4
Total Units       11  lO  10 11 10  8  9  10   8   8   810  10  10 10   143



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
"Flotillas" Annual ODerational Cost in 1990
"FLOTILLAS"                         RD$                     US$
I                         583,001.09                  76,710.67
II                         463,992.62                 61,051.66
III                       466,313.50                  61,357.04
IV                         599,543.33                 78,887.28
V                          477,131.42                 62,780.45
VI                         433,866.14                 57,087.6-
VII                        494,800.81                 65,105.37
VIII                       601,023.20                 79,082.00
IX                        431,635.24                 56,794.11
X                          440,958.31                 58,020.83
xI                         447,805.91                 58,921.83
XII                        495,217.06                 65,160.14
XIII                       495,217.06                 65,160.14
XIV                        495.217.06                 65,160.14
XV                         495,217.06                 65,160.14
TOTAL                       7,420,939.81                976,439.45



- 77 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Eauipment and Workshops
Equipment Fleet
1.       The current SEOPC road maintenance fleet is composed of 556 units
of which 165 (30?) are less than 3 years old; 138 (251) between 4 and 6
years old; 161 (292) 7 to 10 years old; and 92 (16Z) 11 to 15 years old.
At present, 239 units (43?) are out of service and need rehabilitation or
major repairs, Table 1 shows the various equipment groups and the current
condition of each group. In addition, units to be added to SEOPC's fleet
during 1990 are being acquired. Table 2 contains the list of this new
equipment. This fleet can be adequate to carry out the highways
maintenance programs for 1991-1996, if it is maintained and rehabilitated
in a proper and timely manner. With the exception of the units for
mechanical vegetation control described in Annex 1, new equipment will not
be needed during the life of this project, unless new units are justified
by future adjustments of the maintenance programs. The cost of the 20 new
units for mechanical control vegetation will be about US$600,000, financed
under this project. The oldest units of equipment which can not be
rehabilitated economically, will be sold at auction or discarded.
Equipment Management
2.       At present, equipment management is poor.  Many relatively new
units (4-5 years old) are in poor condition because they are not properly
operated and maintained. SEOPC's capital investment in equipment must be
better protected by observing regular preventive maintenance. The first
steps in this direction have been taken with technical assistance financed
with Loan 2609-DO. In addition, the existing structure for equipment
administration must be strengthened. Annex 4 contains a proposal for
improving DGM's current personnel organization, including equipment
administration.
3.       In the future, each equipment unit should preferably be assigned
to a specific operator who will be responsible for its operation and
maintenance. These operators should be trained under a program carried out
within the SEOPC. Due to the lack of tenure in operators' positions, the
program should be permanent. The training will serve to improve the
present quality of equipment operation and maintenance. This project
includes a component of RD$2.3 million equivalent to US$300,000, to finance
the proposed training program.
4.       Furthermore, an equipment management system is needed to carry out
the equipment rehabilitation, repair and maintenance programs. Financing
for the implementation of a maintenance and equipment management system
throughout the country is included in the project at a cost of US$800,000
over a period of two years. Annex 7 contains the proposed terms of
reference for this technical assistance.



- 78 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
Equipment Rehabilitation
5.       Equipment rehabilitation can save SEOPC substantial resources.  In
view of its recent equipment purchases, SEOPC should not buy new units
until the rehabilitation of its equipment is completed. An equipment
rehabilitation and major repairs program has been prepared by DGM with the
assistance of a specialist financed under Loan 2609-DO. This program
details the equipment rehabilitation and major repairs during the period
1992-94 and was prepared to include all units that will be more than two
years old in 1991. It is based on the needs arising from the 1992-94 road
maintenance programs.   Table 3 shows the list of units to be rehabilitated
in the project period. The cost of the program is estimated at US$4
million. It is expected that units in service more than 2 years in
1994-1995 will need rehabilitation in 1995-96, at an additional cost of
about US$2 million. As a result, the whole program of rehabilitation
during the period 1992-1996 could reach a total of US$6 million. The
project includes a component of RD$30.4 million, equivalent to US$4
million, to finance the equipment rehabilitation program for 1992-94.
6.       Ideally, some equipment rehabilitation should be carried out in
SEOPC workshops. This would be possible if SEOPC workshops had proper
tools, workshop equipment and an adequate organization. The first two
conditions have basically been met (Loan 2609-DO provided funds for it) but
SEOPC's workshop organization is still the limiting factor in carrying out
a program of such magnitude. Until this situation improves, rehabilitation
will have to be carried out by contract in local suppliers' workshops,
leaving only preventive maintenance and minor repairs to be done by SEOPC.
This contracting system will have an additional advantage of preventing an
increase in SEOPC staff. Another possible arrangement would be allowing
SEOPC mechanics to work in the contractor workshops, which could reduce the
cost to SEOPC and provide mechanics with valuable on-the-job training.
7.       The rehabilitation and major repair contracting system would be
further expanded and strengthened under this project. Table 4 shows the
performance of several local suppliers' workshops in which DGM equipment
units have been rehabilitated or repaired, largely with financing under
Loan 2609-DO. The performance has been acceptable or good. It is
interesting to note the good results achieved by the supplier Astilleros
Navales Dominicanos, a public firm, which started rehabilitatir.g SEOPC's
equipment in 1989, under Loan 2609-DO. Its unit prices are lower than
those of private firms. The firm buys spare parts after comparing price
quotations obtained from three local suppliers and awards contracts to the
lowest bidder. Its equipment and personnel, as well as the quality of the
work executed by the firm, are satisfactory. It is estimated that about 40
units of equipment could be rehabilitated annually in the Astilleros
Navales Dominicanos' workshop, an important contribution to the
rehabilitation program. Other firms to be considered for equipment
rehabilitation could be local equipment distributors, if their
capabilities, facilities and experience are acceptable.
Equipment Operational Costs and Repair
8.       During the project period, large resources will be needed to
operate the road maintenance equipment. Table 5 summarizes the
requirements for fuel, lubricants, tires and spare parts to operate SEOPC's



- 79 -                  ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
equipment in the period 1992-1996. To ensure that sufficient funds are
available, financing for acquisition of tires and spare parts for repairs
has been included in this project at a cost of RD$98.9 million, equivalent
to US$7.6 million, for the period 1992-94 (US$12.9 million are needed for
the total period 1992-96). Close supervision will be required to monitor
allocated resources and to ensure that they are applied effectively.
9.       Minor repairs included in the equipment repair programs will be
carried out by SEOPC's and local suppliers workshops that have adequate
facilities. In many cases, these minor repairs could be done efficiently,
at low costs, by contracting mechanics operating small workshops. In these
cases, SEOPC would provide the necessary spare parts and supplies and the
contractor would provide the mechanics. Since the work capacity of the
contracted mechanics and the workshops is limited, flexible procurement
procedures would be used to award contracts for the repair of SEOPC
equipment. DGM would be responsible for the work done using this
arrangement.
Workshop Organization and Needs
10.      SEOPC's work3hops are classified according to their geographical
location, and type and complexity of mechanical work to be performed. At
present, there are two workshops designated as class "Al, seven as class
"B' and nine as class "C". All types of repairs are carried out in the
class "A". Workshops of class "B' are used to perform repairs of minor
components. Class "Al and "BO also carry out regular preventive
maintenance for their assigned equipment units. Class 'C" workshops only
carry out preventive maintenance tasks such as oil changes, greasing,
adjustments, etc.
11.      Adequate workshop facilities and competent personel are essential
to maintaining the equipment fleet in good condition. Loan 2609-DO
financed tools and operating facilities for all SEOPC's workshops.
However, some workshops still need to improve its buildings and other
facilities at a cost estimated at RD$19.5 million, equivalent to US$ 1.5
million (US$ 1,350,000 for the workshops and US$ 150,000 for the central
offices). Table 6 shows a breakdown of the resources that will be needed
to construct adeaquate buildings for three "C" workshops and one "B"
workshop and to rehabilitate the central workshop and three 'A' workshops.



SEOPC's Road Maintenance Eoulpennt bi Aae and Condition
:-------^-IN SERVICE---------:-------Olt OF SERVICE----:
____________________----- __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ---- --- --- -____-  - -----__--- __ - --   - - --   - 
I---- - ---- AGE OR"U  IN YEARS ------- - -                      :     WNEE OF    ::
------------------:----- ---------------------------:    TOTAL    :   0000  :   REHAB. OR   :---MJOR----_:
DESCRIP1ION              : 0-3       4-6       7-10      11-15 :   UNITS    :  CONDITION        MAJ. REP. :    REPAIR          aILIr.
Tractors                    1         6         2         17          25            11             1              4            9
motograders                 a        19        23          6          So            14            11             14          .17
Front-End Loodors           8        15        16         10          49            18             9              8           16
Rollers                    10        82         2          S          C7                           6              8           i8
Dump Trucks               lOS        43        84         45         277           i47            11             16          108
Lubrication Trucks          8         1         1                      5             8                            2
Rep1ir Trucks               2                   3                      C             3             2
Watr Trucks                 -        17        12          1          so            16
Cie1rn Trucks               -         6                                6            6                             4           10
Asphalt distributor Trucks  4                  2                       8            I
Crane Trucks                2                                          2            2
Tractor Trucks              8                  5            8         11            6              2              2            2
Top - Trailers              6                 11            l         21           10                            11
Trallors for Tranap.
Asphalt                   2                                          2            2
Dragline.                   2                                          2            2
sackholes                   2                                          2            2
TOTALES .    ......... 165  188 1            61    2         6            275             42             69         170
HI



- 81 -
ANNE 3
Table 2
DOMINI0A._ REPUSLIC
SEOPC's Road Maintenance Eauiiment after 1990 Acaitsitions
---------------a --------------        ------------- _._______________
Total
DESCRIPTION                    1990         Existing       Units
1990
----------------------_-------------------------.--------__----------------
Tractors                                                 25            25
Moto8raders                              4               56            60
Front-End Loaders                        7               49            56
Rollers                                                  57 57
Dump Trucks                             20              277           297
Repair Trucks                                             5             5
Water Trucks                                              S             5
Cistern Trucks                           4               30            34
Asphalt distributor Trucks                                6             6
Crane Trucks                                              6             6
Tractor Trucks                                            2             2
Top - Trailers                                           11            11
Trailers for Transp.
Asphalt                                                21            21
Draflines                                                 2             2
Backholes                                                 2             2
Pav. Markers (Auto)                      2                0             2
Pav. Markers (Manual)                    8                0             8
-------------------------------------------------------------------------_
TOTAL                   45              556           601
-______________________.__________________________________________e         ______



- 82 -
AMLeIL3
Table 3
Major Repairs and Rehalilitation Program
1992-1994
MAJOR REPAIR         REHABILITATION
I5EM  UNIT. MAKE. MODEL   NQ    COST (USSI  2    JQ  COST (US)   _Z   TOTAL COSTS
1  :TRACTOR CAT D&C C    : I  :  70,866.14: 19.25:  1 s  49,606.29:       * 120,472.43
2  :TRACTOR CAT D&D      s 1  s  27,622,05: 15.01:    s             :      s  27,622.05
3  :TRACTOR CAT D7                                s s  s  s 2 s 140,828.89:  s 140,828.89
4  sTRACTOR CAT D7E      :   s             s      s 4 s 303,653,53: 30.61:  303,653.53
5  :TRACTOR CAT D8H      s                        : 2 s 183,877.00: 33.14:  183,877.00
:   SUB-TOTAL        s 3  s  98,488.19:       t 9 : 677,955.71:        : 776.452.00
6  sMOTGR GAL. T500C     s 8  s 113,636.24:20.25 s 10 s 239,313.47: 34.45:  352.749.71
7  :MOTGR CAT 120C       : 4  s  71,399.7 :19.25 s 4 s 113,219.70:         s 184,616.40
8  .TRACTOR AVEL B TG2   :13  : 226,457,96s21.7  s 3 :  88,199.97: 36.75: 314,657.93
9  :LOADER CAT 930       : 4  :  56,692.91s       : 2 : 140,828.89:        : 140,828.89
10  :LOADER CAT 920       : 3  :  39,370.08:20.19 * 7 t 173,228.35: 38.0 s 212,598.43
11  :LOADER TORTONE TP12  :   s             s      s 2 s 119,834.65: 36.87:  194,638.04
12  :LOADER CASE 580B           s: I a  22,750.00: 35.0 a  22,750.00
13  :LOADER CASE 1845B    a   s             :      * 1 :  22,193.00: 34.9 s  23,193.00
14  :LOADER INTER         :    s            :      : 1 :  23,622.00: 36.34:   23,622.00
SUB-TOTAL        :16  t 173,866.38:       s 17 s 408,872.10:       : 582,738.48
15  :ROLLER FRAC TF1014   s 3  :  24,670.00:19.6  * 1 s  12,598.42: 30.15:   37,268.47
16  :ROLLER FRAC TE0406   : 1  :   5,984.25:24.83 * 6 s  50,500,00: 34.92:   56,484.25
17  :ROLLER TORTONE 2403  a 5  s  52,577.93:l3.9  * 5 : 104,881.90: 27.91:  157,459.83
18  :ROLLER TORTONEMMA130 a 1  :   9,984.25:18.55 a   a             :      a   9,984.25
19  :ROLLER GALLON 7301   :                 s        1 :  14,742.20: 34.99:   14,742.20
20  sROLLER DnMAPAC CA250 s 2  s  20,039.37:19.17 *                         a   20,039.37
21  sROLLER SAKAI CV90    * 1  s  11,481.89:21.75 :   a              s      s  11,481,89
SUB-TOTAL        :13  : 124,737.69:       a 13 s 182,722.52:       a 307,450.21
22  :DUMP TRCK INTER 1754 s 6  :  38,312.7 :22.4  : 23 : 224,575,16: 34.3 : 262,887.86
23  :DUMP TRUCK FORD F700 : 2  a  14,201.50:25.0  : 14 s 129,873.83: 32.6 : 129,873.83
24  :DUMP TRUCK NISS CX20 s 7  :  44,712.00s21.2  s 32 s 328,582.66:        s   9,984.25
25  .DUMP TRUCK HINO KB212: 2  :  149430,00:24.0  : 23 : 200,527.00: 29.6 : 214,957.00
26  :DUMP TRUCK HINO KB402: 3  :  14,853.00:16.5  a 13 a 130,126.08: 33.82:   20,039.37
27  :DUMP TRUCK HINO TE220:    s            s      : 3 :  32,244.09: 35.82:   32,244.09
SUB-TOTAL        :20  : 126,509.20:       :108 :1,045,928.70:      :1,172,437.90
28  :TRACT TRUCK INTER1754s 2  :  21,700.00:18.08 s    :             :      :  21,700.00
29  :TRACT.TRUCK INTER2575s: 1     12,700.00:17.00 s    a            :      :  12,600.00
30  :TRACT.TRUCK INTER2200:    s            s      : 1 s  24,500.00: 33.0 :  24,000.00
31  :TRACT.TRUCK MACK E676: 1  s  10,307,08:14.7  a 1 s  24,500.00: 35.0 :  34,807.08
32  :TRACT.TRUCK VOLVO F88: 1  :  17,500.00:25.0  :   s              s      a  17,500.00
SUB-TOTAL        s 5  a  62,107.08:       a 2 a  49,000.00:        a 111,107.63
33  sWATER TRUCK FORD P700: 3  :  16,680.50:16.67 : 4 :  40,033.20: 30.0 :  56,713.70
34  :WATER TRUCK HIMOTE220:    a            :      : 2 a  25,606.75: 32.5 a  25,606.75
35  :WATER TRUCK INTER1754:    a            s      s 4 t  39,822.50: 31.25:   39,882.50
s   SUB-TOTAL         : 3  s  16,680.50:      : 10 s 105,522.45:       s 122,202.95
36  :REPAIR TRUCK         s    s            s      a   s             s      s
37  :REPAIR TR. INTER1754 s L  a   4,606.30:12,5  s    I             a      s  10,500.00
38  :LUBRfC.TR. PORDF4000 a   s             :      s I s  10,500.00: 35.0 s  10,500.00
:   SUB-TOTAL         : 1  :   4,606.30:       a   a  10,500.00:       :  15,196.30
39  :PICK-UP FORD F100    : 8  :  19,691.91:23.62 t 19 t  63,907.94: 32.3 s  21,700.00
40  :PICK-UP ISUZU RBD2IL :    a            :      a 3 :   6,614.40: 27.56:    6,614.40
:   SUB-TOTAL         a 8  a  19,621.91:       a 22:   70,522.34: s        90,144.25
a   GRAND TOTAL       :92  :1,013,111.10:     s 199:2,996,766.8 a  USS 4.034.877.80



Performance of Local Supplier's Workshops In recent SEOPC'e Epulgment Repair and Robebliltatton
:    UlNIT MIENTIFICATION       :                                               COSTS (RD$)
:                               :                                 :                          (RDA):   WORK        ACqJISITION
:TYPE    MAKE   MODEL    ID. NO    TYPE OF WORK        WORKSHOP   :SPARE PARTS   MANPOWER    TOTAL :  QUALITY       COSTS       X REPAIR/ACQ.
LA ANTILUANA   87,296.88   84,941.05
TRUOC   INTER. S 1754   F 4085   REHABILITATION  COMERCIAL S.A.    61.683       48,873   72,237.73    000D      RDS 108.613806      40.0
LA ANTILLANA   20,984.60   25,006.00
TRUCK   INTER. S 1764   F 4089   MAJOR REPAIR       COlERCIAL S.A.   44.76X      66.26X  46,890.80    GOOD      RD$ 180,613.05      2S.9
LA ANTILLANA   23,816.83    7,879 25
TRUC    NTER. S 1754   F 4071   MINOR REPAIR        COMERCIAL S.A.   74.72%      25.26e  31,108.08    0000      RD8 180,013.05      17.8
ASTILLEOS      66,686.90   16,000.00
TRUCK   FMRD   F 700   CL 420  RENABILITATION        NAVALES        79.083      20.923   71,688.90    0000      ROt 180,869.05      89.7
ASTILLEROS     58,688.90   15,000.00
TRUCK   FORD   F 700    CV 426  REHABILITATION       NAVALES        79.64X      20.863   78,686.90    0000      RD8 180,869.05      40.8
ASTILLEROS    46,074.90   15,000.00
TRUCK   FOCL   F 700    CV 421  REHABILITATION       NAVALES        75.44X      24.63X  81,074.96    0000       ROt 180,859.01      83.8
ASTSLLEROS     87,778.72   15,000.00
TRUCK   FORD   F 700    CV 897  RENABILITATION       NAVALES        71.513      28.42X   52,776.72    0000      RD8 190,869.06      29.2   e
SERVICIOS     48,189.29   84,562.00
TRUCK   HINO   KB 402   CV 820  REHA8tLITATION      MECANICOS       67.17X      42.8tX   80,701.29 ACCEPTABLE ROO 190,600.00       42.3
SERVICIOS     40,992.19   84,527.00
1U    1414   MB 212   CV 220  RBILITATION           IECAMICOS       54.283      46.723   75,519.19 ACCEPTABLE 8US 190,500.00       86.6
SERVICIOS     60,897.19   35,177.00
TRUCK   INDt    KB 402   CV 816  REHABILITATION     VECANICOS       69.135      40.873   86,074.19 ACCEPTABLE R80 190,500.00       45.0
SERVICIOS    38,840.61   U8,952.00
TRUCK   11M   KB 402   CV 816  REHABIITATION        MECANICOS       49.793      60.21X   78,692.61 ACCEPTABLE 8RD 190,600.00       88.6
SERVICIOS     48,999.26   85,877.00
TRUCK   4111   NO 212   CV 240  REHAILITATION       MECANICOS      56.083       44.923   79,876.26 ACCEPTABLE RDt 190,600.00       41.9
SOURE: 00. EQUIPIT EERAL SUB-DIRECTORATE
9 Iz
IN 



- 84 -
ANIEX 3
Table 5
SEPC. Loulsst- Oerationat SCoo
1992-1994 and 1992-1996
(US 9 1000)
1m          1998          1994         1995          1999
FuoI (no f In.)                  860.9       1188.7        1428.4       1708.0        1992.7
Fitters and Lubric. (no fin.)    289.7        254.0         254.0        264.0        264.0
Tilre                            916.7        990.2         960.6       990.2         990.2
Track*                           257.2        257.2         267.8       257.8         257.8
Cutting Tools                    267.2        S87.6         587.0       587.6         687.8
Other Materials                  610.1        859.8        8659.8        69.8         869.8
Provontlw maintenance            86.0          5.0           5.0          5.0          5.0
TOTAL                     8879.9       4042.2        4297.4       4011.6        4896.3
TOTAL FINANCED                  2279.2       2649.5        2620.0      2649.6        2649.6
TOTAL 1992-84  7649.7   TOTAL 1992-98    12647.9



AM=E 3
Table 6
COSTS OP WORFSHOPS RECONSTRUCTION AND RB$AUILITATION
1.   Now Contruction
WorkahoB                            2"9as            Cost fUSS)
"Ayudantia Puerto Plata*            C                256,968.00
"Ayudantla, Nague                   C                256,000.00
'Ayudantia" San Jose de Ocoa        C                256,968.00
"Ayudantal" Hato Mayor              B                314,960.00
2.    Rehabilitation
Workahot                            Class            Coat (USS)
Preventive Maintenance
Central Workshop                                    100,000.00
Light Repair Central Workshop       A                 20,000.00
Heavy Repair Central Workshop       A                 80,000.00
Regional Workshop                   A                 40.000.00
TOTAL                            1,352,866.00



- 86 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Staffing
1.      The DGM employs about 6,000 people of which 1200 work at the
central office in Santo Domingo and the rest work in four maintenance
districts. Geographic distribution of these districts is adequate. The
districts are further sub-divided into 'ayudantlas*. The central district
of Santo Domingo and the district of Santiago which are the most important,
have 6 'ayudantiasa each; the district of Azua has 5 layudantlas" and the
district of La Vega has 4 sayudantiasg. Each wayudantial employs about 200
people.
2.      The number of employees at the DGM appears excessive; yet a closer
examination reveals that about 201 of staff is working in areas not related
to maintenance activities and the rate of absenteeism reaches more than 5Z.
The analysis considers only the personnel actually working in maintenance
at the central office and at the districts.
3.      The present organization of DGM is shown in Table 1.  Basic changes
in this organizational structure are not necessary to. improve highway
maintenance. However, some minor changes and additional staff are needed.
We proposed the following: (see Table 2)
Mi)   create, under the Road Maintenance Department (reporting
directly to the General Director of DGM) a Rural Roads
Maintenance Planning Unit (separately from the Highways
Maintenance Planning Unit).  The new unit will be charged
with planning, execution and control of the rural road
maintenance program. This unit should be staffed with a
chief-engineer, two assistant engineers and support staff;
(ii) create, within the Technical Sub-Directorate for Equipment,
an Equipment Management Unit (EMU), charged with the
implementation of the Equipment Management System (to be
implemented with technical assistance included in this
project, see Annex 7) and a Technical and Administrative
Support U:ait (TASU), charged with technical and
administrative support to EMU. This should be staffed with a
chief-engineer, three assistant engineers and support staff;
TASU should be staffed with a chief-engineer, one assistant
engineer, one administrative officer and support staff.
These new units will replace the existing units of Equipment
Reevaluation and Equipment Preventive Maintenance and the
planned but not yet created Equipment Supervision Unit.
Staff of the existing units will be transferred to the new
ones.



- 87 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(iii) staff the Workshop Superintendence, in charge of coordination
and supervision of DGM's workshops, with a workshop
superintendent, three assistant engineers and support staff;
and,
(iv)  strengthen the Highways Maintenance Planning Unit, providing
two additional assistant engineers and support staff.
4.      Concerning district personnel, Table 3 shows DGM's personnel
actually working in maintenance, by district and category. There are 3500
DGM people working in the districts (at the field, workshops and offices)
enough to carry out the maintenance programs presented in Annex 1.
However, there is a pressing need to strengthen this work force with
technical and support staff. In this respect, the organization should be
strengthened by assigning to each district an engineer and support staff,
who will be responsible for planning, execution and monitoring at district-
level of the proposed maintenance programs and for the coordination with
the *ayudantlas" and with the central office.
5.      A serious problem concerning the SEOPC work-force, in general, and
technical personnel, in particular, is a lack of tenure in their positions.
As a result, SEOPC engineers, specialists, foremen, and other field and
office personnel are substituted by newly appointed people with each change
in Government. This represents a loss of qualified personnel, often
trained at great expense to the Government, and creates serious problems
for the implementation of new techniques in the management and execution of
the required maintenance activities, including planning and field work.
These problems are especially acute at the level of the district chiefs and
ayudantiasu, which are directly responsible for road maintenance. The
problem is further compounded by low salaries paid to SEOPC employees. The
salaries are inadequate and cause a high turnover among capable
technicians. If this departure of staff continues, it may ;mpact
negatively on project execution. Extensive training programs, included
under this project, will provide some incentive to SEOPC's staff to remain
on the job.   The amount included in the project for these programs is
US$200,000 equivalent.



GENERAL DIRECTORATE Of MAINTENANCE (ACTUJAL)
L~J
LQ  ___
I      IZ    I 
._ sz ~~~~~a. wm.m
.. .~ _   _~l .3 .                               6.4    *9                      . .                                                  __-I   3Z ,;E                                           1 3
,9at~  ~~~~~~          ~~~~~ *..W  . .........  S.W  , #4.4       . 4 ...
: _         -. ...n.u         ::.t._       _I. -.   Ia.                                      __ __ __ , __ __ _._
..54      % 4#                S.4. P       .4                                                 I      " ,     I    
.. 0949.     ^r; .,,9                                                                       * X ;..     .......           ....         *#  X,'tw7  7   ^ *,Ctfl.C0.  ...e.o...,.,.
.8 MnflW   flf                                          ._ e                                            -X    s .l-      X .t h   ,....,ae.  .,..,  X .,    I    -    l4                          L -X
'-~~~~~~~~94                              1      --         L  ^ WY 4_6   t-,b....-;i       *.........;n
[ i.,."X.,.4.4    In  *s                                                      I              1*M 
w@t 1           9 ~'..'  1                                                          *_*. _0  _ _-
. , ,tZLj  EH



GENERAL DIRECTORATE or MAINTENANC (1113)
,~ 
. I.
*~~~~ -                                             Li        -- E
.~~~~~~~~~~-                        -$ .. s4
b~LJ~
EE ~ ~~ E                                               -U,



- 90 -
ANN   4
T bloa
DOW'S PERSONNEL BY 8AYUDANTIAS. DISTRICT AND CATEGORY
DA   Umin. Roadmn   Mechanics  Drlver   Operators Aeletante  Permnent  Spec.  Total  Naw of
(Workshops)                                     Leave            9Ayud. * 'Ayud. 9
11    62       214         21        11          6           0           0        0      820
12     26      18O         16         8          6           4           0        1      198       C
E
18     28       64          9         6          4           2           0        2      109       N
T
14     81       62          0        12          9           2           0        0      106       R
A
15     24       66         14        13          7           8           2        0      129       L
1i     28       41          9         S          6           2           9        0       97
TOTAL
DIST.  194       687         69        64         87           19         11        a      954
21     S1      262          0        18         17           6           0        0      879       S
A
22     27       so          9        10          6           4           0        0      106       N
T
28     16      121         10        11          9           4          15        0      186       I
A
24     22       62         10        15          5            7          0        0      141       a
0
26     28      114         14         0          6            5          9       10      186
26     28       64          9         7          6            5          0        0      184
TOTAL
DIST.  197       718         62        s6         48           81         24       10     1181
81     49      106          1         8         20           0           0        0      179
L
82     s6       82          2         0          a           6           0        0       62       A
V
S8     41      142          6        17         10           8          81        5      2C5       E
84      0       02          0         0         12           0           0        0       74       A
TOTAL
DIST.  126       842          9        20         4B            9         81        5      590
41     41       60         18        11          4            8          0        2      154
42     26       26         16         a          8            1          0        0       s0       A
48     28      226         12         4          5            1          0        6      279       Z
44     87      182         26        15          6            8          2        8      228       U
46     11       67          2        11          6           8           0        0       89       A
TOTAL
DIST.  180       C28         70        47         28           11          2       11      625
TOTAL
GM.   865       2146        200       1n         156           70         66       29     a50
SOURCE: Surv   of the distrel   and aruidentfal ebloe. Octbor 109-Mrech 10
* Exmple: IS=Ol*trlct 1, *Ayodentfog 8.



ANNEX 5
- 91 -                            Page 1 of 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Marking and Signaling
1.      The number of accidents on the highway network is high, resulting
in heavy loss of life and property. One of the causes of the accidents is
the lack of adequate vertical signalization and pavement marking. At
present, only 55X of the highway network has pavement marking. Out of the
remaining 45%, less than a half has pavement marking in good state. The
vertical signalization is even in a worse condition: even heavy-traffic
roads of the major trunk network, such as the Duarte Highway, have no
preventive signals.
2.      Roads under reconstruction will be marked and signposted before
works are completed. However, the standards and materials used to date
have not been satisfactory.  The length of roads marked and signposted
during the period 1987-89 is shown in the following table:
Year                        Marking (Km)              Signaling (Km)
1987                            223.1                      76.5
1988                            203.7                     262.0
1989                             74.6                     221.1
Total                           501.4                     559.6
3.      To improve the present situation, a program for marking and
signaling for the period 1992-1996 has been prepared. Table 1 shows the
five types of projects proposed for marking with the average per kilometer
costs for each type of a project. lables 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 show this
program in detail, whose total cost is equivalent to US$900,000 in the
period 1992-1996. Some 91.5Z out of this amount corresponds to material
cost, 5.12 to equipment and the remaining 3.3? to labor costs (see Table
7). The project includes a component equivalent to US$600,000, for
financing marking and signaling in the period 1992-94.



I      el~w am      m   m       s     lwant   a  uv   a       I fi 6s       I  lonag    I       mm    I   s  a   t se  96 ary   x vrt  ml vsi1                              6"IN3 wu                       mswat
I          1615m11 9,11    an661111 856          69        9 19  1g  19      9  1668             356 I9l         6   6     ? ISee L' 1130461 ILK  I'la           9161895el   16       III=31358 K1 3 3919'Mi
*      131 no     &       SK         no      m#I       I I1 I69  I16 II    I  8181tl    I            6   I  I   0    I 16161t'l U031*9Sl 61* II            M 66 33661:)                      UN    1113     M65691l
*     66          SW9183    4691 68K111I 61        *    ts      e I I           ts    I *1          I   I  I   S   III IM 889103 *9i 15168 $'St                   UN                            as68313 611WLmi
a     ar  oun    tit       sa       litiit sI 919              I uS        I  9181      I      -m    6   9  I I 86*150 9    3911    13916t?SKV                   6A9219             U"Mm31 *35g5r8W16't
is Am 311                 au8       mm      tilt 111   9    91 66   I   mm 161                                it55       I 8 1    S  1  rinr  361    1)191lt  lam        69W =m1   963sI39*i wi19,
a 6  am1    9191    "t              a"lU                  I181  611 60   I91   I  Ll9to I   I9015         I   IL 0   roivia 1 6 L    35.5    lit *9-t        A.513351169nu                        151u.   695 -U
I           86 Km5    99         8186    non1    tIK    39         39     9          56 1                   9 o    lo           9 6 9   9   6*586114   368161  *8 I'll   f     139351 N6613        1ds13 6i3s3SW1gti
(U     OM991    Ml    65K    11911  196 Me               6        5 I65  I   I  I fit                           9   St*6116 $M   I I3I5861713   111  P5t6l il   I'll  =a 0I266963I            A3t13365K61U8
*     11         IN&16986     9 111 8         KI 1     1196    9 5 1 6       c I     86186 1654 a0  a6   a 9       al AN 616    351*5o  $III S*U              611513ANN.111 usOmg tl6ler.
*   41      it tau1   369        no3    1t864    out5   9 6  I I          I      1  1918       I  a3810     l       a   at  Olt91 519    261 16  8*8  1.18                  406610696          8665O3933  5165 Ul93 S
*        941 am59    9114     m 11 1 58 191t5am               S S 869 6tI        1  196     I aud3   9           I I       rt l*UIS III 61I'16u    ?lb         SUM  0013116381    0         I336 in $I=  536W8'n 8lu96i 
dim    el 1 Ile        5      6556   4N1W       an9    6 I 6 9  IIII    I  Mac1             I  043   t   66 I It            O 1'S FMI'    5XI116 61   18 't    XIU S3   3326689634 In5mm S105304u     23 61I69
6   TM9  it  11911l  1*4         4616    98131    01oll    9   I I of 65 I 6    6 9161    1 N608810    1            61 St     9Sall I" V    3686   6151 6tfl                 I II 66666la)1181  m36$ a0wt3im 91a1u
rim'  tit 866   UN1           an 111 85196    8146   I    5 6   968            I  996136           ] 696 5    I 6    16    I   I'is 59    [so 316  891  I'll             9669sil69*311IN S    I 60u534"6'1611
B        a5  I6       ID81    416 11    441191    alai          I    I       I6lu         I *up1  I9085     I  is  9   %-I SI 6691  35' 8-11 "Is5               ssvw  as661    V3136    S5962963JwJ 'V *3056*1u96
a 39  3  1gn8t   it"5    19ot    1691    416669           6 I      t 6    I   MI6*      I      30 AM    I     9K  96  1'I ISO 99  X591 O'ttt    6  S             A111 )6   t)461   13  I 6158*836e19 313 691'8  lt
it 1  Km85        3        61 tilt    ml8666"6am                II I 866     06 1       1 ag    9w    I       9I 9t  6 53IS1 1   s51litS  118 'V18816191                                6153S1L9L
a   886    19              tl      661 nu Om89tou     a S          6ts1  9    1 20  131 18086    6           i   a1 68    151 6*L  SOI*     356'6   8116              gm 6113514351131          11111m i613s euiP
*  '  8  6168    9m3       N16     169       1  9        69  I I   II     1 Ilsmm      I a@   I5          I 6I   I   t6  ISO 61'   35   U   U I    't 91856  638 5 I m               Mill "531Is In3516  3*3 mlai
I    ai              19.8ut6 L         Om8     91981    1e6           I  1 9  I I    I    1 tv      I     I 6(09I6  to5803    6  U   U ISO V68*     3916  19t   '       #1111  'NW tht 31101u0dW66613312   96ts V3 58l991
U'    9   (33    1 lug(   918           465     tug6   6I8        56599 6I    a           116669     I86863    9   5   I  LI  V'l A56L*   30 9C   61i VI 916             lilW)303VIN1683I                    13656as *s s'l666
6         rJl    6169 t       668no    1146    am6n11         91   66       * 1I    6  5519          I     396      I     8  P1i    l   a15191  3988 6141 716S&           vomW   la)56    IIUhSahuiuII3A  NI3999'Lu'L
a*   i       a 68*1t    11    6a4        6619      696      6   5  1 6 III           til 911   6     366         I  I   I6 6   1'   *511  035415  561 I't S      i 58t866 1836  OI33 u        pm=   Ojo1 11113    L  LIS
*    (9i3  "I 116    616    6Om          us"6    686t  I   I   6 I    6 9I    I  564         I     31JM    9   1  9*98  PL8r5ANVI  X r5l 6766            U           ISO  I I'S   3660558336*53 A66$1 8   03 S 3513681   U
*   (63      6891       981K     ai 631 a189       8      8      99 9            8  59O61    1       3Mit  it9   9                   8* 11181     9631LL585   II   (46E 196031310011       ant; fos  is 33 ssss'ssa
6   46111  a6   666    8 66931    1868Stu4*166 tu          I    I 3         I1   I 1    t8A1   I 63515    S      I  91  It   18417W    I10 t59*8    885 *1-f         15Q 921$ 5A8I 133           "TM 5S533as631368p68
*     I         66665m   85      out    6g1        61     6 636         I       I  SSIS       I 8  665155    B    I 6   41  el?8ad 411   351    888 elm  0 s519135321569113              I 83eawn anVfl5A19~16
8   4*i    1 am68    Ht    8U6            11111       e      886    6 56 19      I  6851       19643M    5   9   61  61  )t'ISOJ;*1   35'11    s 81 810Ill 4N3UMnl 164303    68iOu6Sf3l166I163l  &U111911
6   413   58 4965    9961    8111    Ism6          655    91 S 46 S 16   9            o                =    1 1 611  388      1  181    ISO4P8   35 1'16  681  I-It   613611 686-mv tit 33        963451669 - 6s115181
6  33 6         us66     til     Si        log91(  91  6699I  566I         61 91(      I     A=       I      6  86   91181 AN        1*86  613  (66 utr    I61ve354'191386to13n  69636345  *335, I6 313S'6U
9  36 88881   6966    5516    68998    9(11    5 9 8 S 1 9 6    1   69118"ti  6  66   5   6   I   1   9:1 51611    I5'llbw 865   668   6*336')u5 96=1  wivwsriwa;   Ilk   661'91
an13     vI 6681 61    I1           16161e   111 S5661   It                    61*              993 5I fotfal   is  ilo    16.8          lt1 8589              Iut91M plasinous9)u6g6
-   -  -   -    -       -         -.                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -li                        --** 'm         -     - .
53336698  ~    n w  s    95mm                           36SW$                    5     Nam3695                  3066966*   WS"                                 0613636               3635                   013
UWOSSUd  S13861  055  13696  181U3854
"mm93 A586493) a33683   *33535613                 I533369839* g   ,3 a  ev           Al
563m3502   9525166Wm A603   msv iss 39 59639



mtawrura'   333    33   5111 MK P306a11Sa 91211111ia
30.in.UC  1333                 90                    396) 343. E.,464  34SU03.190. --- 3    lot36343.0    -                     its                        -         -        -        -                    
29.333.8231153j8431U        CICU 221 *4j849E3$301I           91 96   44.3   6 . 4.33 0.3     110     3       30OK       2      6626         a 30  2 3       3       Is"33     kill      490      319    WI1 -$    I   3* 
20.1616.33U1  22334684363053          36443 I           t             41b   64.8656  6.34.0   21  to          I    I NM308        2    606,45   S     6%V133         I3  s Il    22043           31634     as3   ism025 ~
21.S16.30333  10 I I                     6366630"              49.  984   04.68    6.05   8.3  Is   is I           I IN303        2     315    I    I  2 5        IIIU36    333       31196,    1433      %M6    336   *       u.
24.343.357         Wu3608             6031165                    Il ',4  9  14.1  3   6.3 3113.   St  69"     a    I I343         2     14314   2    6 3i3        a0 363     3639     owl7       sty       It3   Isis3  23 33 
24.3*6.0&                            tic34  1(2 In               '.' 946   04.03 IS.633.6   36   6    2 l              5NM        S    7032    I    I      23   2          a  8152    0333      am3       U111   236426 34$ 
24.3a3.313(84fl9                        a d                    I~ 1.i 9,6   it.65    A.35      .0  23  tag 3IINu1                 z     3343    4    36t166             i6   43u6     inl2       is69     11i3    39323    69
24.308.3633.4                         driclf, (409031079       14.Z  631   04.3       6.  136.6  23  23  6f   3         K   MM0163 I    3026   S       I  I 4     II 66    341    3606           1136    Ism13 5948    a433 
24.316.393 (Cg  6I6 1405 1843801         all 33441. 56633136   *;4 5 644   3.4 AC       6 654315   26   24   S I3CSW POP3 4    3636 3.S                              3 I3    33Ia 34  66178     26*3      MI3  v094   143 84) 
?66346.(46  583. 6636341              1. tin 8353066           11)l   33)  145.q 8    6.3 to  3.2  42  .2 I   I cm iS    63             71419   S    34 to IIII              no6 33   ?9196      toll    324      3293          3.    3
26.363.4433SOL. t3584530869           84C  70344               10-.9  341   I3.9 AC   6.6 5s3.3   13es I    I MM 304                    45163   7    II 4423aa3I             663      032o      2)8       4142   3232         RICO3.   S
2-16.34S.2384. PolitoCi its salso  ci  ato cm                         3!1 41   as.t AC   006.         t3 6: s1, " I    6    8i 132      333  o,3     I3nu3II33I69u    34349                      mg3    gm9    3193   869 43           I
31.139.34 11    1       CieIt IC  23 (14031363                 I 4.9  3233  23.2 at   6.3346 a3  3 43   3               (3764             99          3    3   I  m3II4369ol           "2it       643      696    933  3      41.1,   3
31.141.1323Ct37ic   itUI30933         (i  2331t.343t634        46.9  3231  23.18 K    6.63348.3    3    1  t       S (6cm     63        36333su  0    33   #360              391      12i31     4463       ml    son3  if  133.)    6
31.3169.1313 tit 254 IKE4. 348634     ti  252 0636  83 1116PI' 6.4  3232.2 04   6.38I 2.6  32   32                gI 0KO76 I            no?3    I    IIl      Ia      S16g?            ml9?      1441      123    3348  it  R33.,   6
3339..C123235ISM   EC1309333. So (Co.3843IS    14.6  73   2.284   6.6052.3    3   23 2                        6 Ef                MI353  133    I64   663              373      $1331      4334     fil3    Sim3  to3            a
22.123.33  (It I32 itt*lit11'         (I  314 IMEE. SANV3900463  4.1  4900  14.2 AC  b.  I31.1  In3  to        I 3       0866 2          6349   4    3 6       363  6                  6332       231      29      but9  I             Of)
12.2.324.       IC t1t4t46t4. soV813CIC1325I        CIP 4 itp  *6.4  394   03.38 K      .53.  A           S I    I            Al 1*02    3463   6    6 62aII0 6 g     4                 16       W6I       449     6339 I      43      I
22.7124.5  tIE 242 048I 93(603         ca 4*03446 O 3631630 8314 3.i 331    9.6 84 6.3 63  3        46  to    S   toI6 46732            4193    3    1  3      IIa     S  6  210      lim3t      kil1     lo2b   3133631 OF 34)
22.624.36   1 634 11      3690oi   1360) Cota   30  4363536  VA016A  21.2  353    9.6 84   6.3o    j 6 1 633 3  to S      11   2    691193  I         I    1133 3 3         l *    33  333330    334      323    433323  213341    
33.373.04858L. $P31ft41A              C1C6664 I3613              4.3653   24.3K   6b. 95.3           3        I 3       4         2      3246 I       II62     II       II   9VA       3933      to3       91     2699 I       43)
33.323.363 30A                        Ii. saoum  saw4  30IA   i3.6       1 134.48K   S.133.6  4 So        3 I 8 I I    41               311633   I    I4                     0311     23332     rA 621 14136    MA21  635  a4)
13.1)3.O63cit 3114438     MIA3)       13.(9(53729 2.56    .533                                       643 4         338                  29644   3    6   3                   4366     31034     473       603    $2,117  It?03. 
03.033.01111 A. (16346                (3.065(s0490               3.3  4323  49.635   6.   I33           InI3 8      30g0m         2     23116   3                 a Ia       no36     2246      OM3       614   24ota6 a 313.1'   6
3267.638. to$ (840               m3l. t6t04               03.1  432   49.6330I 6.33333 31  Is3 3    4N3M3                   ?    3611611     4       I6 t   I 66       3639     96693      236      033     343464  is  11., 
12.323.13VSO. (06446                 (I   2931(. 1343454         1i.4  2463  41.38 K   .66.    .    'A 6 33 30        t537032           1)03   I         4          I to    SW1       982       11l      324    03322 3    33.0'   a
32.373. 43                                                       6.36    6.6   3.33033.663I 6C447636                                        6         333           6           3         3        a        3        3       MCI3)a
32.623.0211Clc2334toc. 1,110411444     ml 1611044601            01.3  2363  41.38    6.35   4.613 1s is 7    3   (41162                V"39     I          I     I63 06         0     492       24*6     us3e   5)4   25  SW3         a
32.4173.40 46668Oil (Ig9CIt 34201                               43.3  2299  40.48    6.193.6   63 o I 3                (76 2            3666    2    3326 IIa3    433                 29163     4369     621    I12196, It0
U4.323.36m  t349 4(ic0343033             01163 lit7Pivot         3.3  29   4.48    6.33446  to3  la3I              I   I0763           4792    I           I     II          nil006  344   3on3   3       0 15    63331    83$ 
2432.33tC  3   4iC043K84S3   0131.13  616866            42.6  161   43.1      6.6 36 t. 16 46I    4  384                  2    34433?   4                 II63       It"3 93  6133      4131     613     46233  4A   a4$
73.329.1111111 . us ofok=            to uA4034L                 461.1  136   61.431.3163.3   36  16 I I 2    0               1      4  3963   4       333        33          3243     4236      3166    1436     332364        a)
1`3"          tat 46.6561.3s tos36   IN9.633163                 116.3  23    3.36   S.333.3   22  to3   3               03             32111 3       3       23  3           WI62    33316     3633     21       U14,13  633. 
41.341.313((1  4in  4403so3 13.U                 off tO 2c6.13671   Is.38    6.4351.6 0 1                     6t  t 2                  toll 961    I    302)33         Is o 6        923        4439    233     9361   lob            a
26.633.343 tc ils 30160.011311 tociil     641 3(0646             1.163a   23.4656.353.6                  6a             33 2I636   3I                I     0 3393  33o 5371                     36                d3o   It   a4$
?6.41.3313.   Lou  K co"                C( 4508C.CA3011.190 .443.6  Is    23.3 03  S.35   4.0  36  to0 I 0 6    4r3 1t6   4    332363IO3   1146                                                so03  536   873   2323   34
26.645.1611 CI  43 (A(t.(83W.36 4 L 3I  341S 38440              664432.4         65 g  .m 6 S. .I  Is  I"     I I0   6    04           494    I    3312  638I 3              989     213       412     0O9      2343   26a43
36.11it 34(4231211433                03  8                        .35204.681.K  U 94.4    3    6                   IN                  721241        3433460                244      2331       193      339    23926623l     3
46.4114.13   613!(43  4cpu76114                                 3.933 3.8 1.39539  t          3.3    31      1     3N                   31 1 1                9  2U I  I III 3  363  W1M       2325     42      13mu 33 34 $         3
44.133.303(   3634U.. SAI. K m   73433  3F0SO                   231   33 34.631  S.331. 01  4636I"                11    34       2     1331    I    IIaaS    0         a6  6 2940    mot3       73      431     137u   J3  33        6
It.44.311   61311360                 CIt 13143(345              23.3  233   33.Ae65    - 6. 3.3    6to6   3    6    31           3       w04    6    II isIIIII   121               4193       323      226    I40144  33    43 
8334.331 on    3.34oft8M                am(66                   2     1426   714.4I56.353.6   41  too  0           6  S04W 16    4                   6 2 6 0                443      392       36       2336    OM40   1833
IS43.S664 304to (4403C13094U436                                  4.616  723.735I6.             .3    6    6I                                         I 3302]7301    I20366  4679ta    4303       99      36      063           4 )



40-
*    (513         1119     tIB      Sltu      6811       159    lO     L                      low8    I86                    I        8             C's31*    Ise 8*   0  rI'               W*IWVISU Ism31183
fill*              8         9       19          )1 (                 rIS        809                                    S    0     6335IB  Is                              3113I6a4a                                 IN8683   13113 s88'qIUU
es"51          0811     09        Sut      899        56    Ia  s   1     1 US   I    1 891           1              1                   reS   6B31 *9   1160*S     I  VI           C6381*8631ti 313              fIla  qu1a'uiSlr)gL 11t
8    (19     I 13  16B8    will      also     681193     UK    (6  S1 8 S 1.    I         I   21813      1              a    I   S    S    113 6108111   858 ISOat  swi    .6volfls r ~  *3        118*  3  13106313 U  50038 LU 313 Bslrogtl
*    ('SW    GI 1518       955       ta 11    01*11      '5U61 jS   a  e      1  I I       I   81*1      I              S    S   S        IS e.g sm i 1 SO rot        8  CktIS   4I3*333 U11013) 193t2   3 0281631'35grS
*    d58       Glut    Hu6        HO        (lOt)       .18    561        t  l IS       I   91.1.8    1              I6           0      e'S    * 96088~  is0S6    I's  I                      86                (0310M1i"    a 3I3  1615t11i
a    (S    to  gull3  i*)l        6lff      9189      .4168   2      I  1  6  I3 9 6        "li6st6    I             I      0       6    51 81   *       wVl ISO  I*Lt&    u    (io          WM3  '1113 31883  111(33,1 911 213 ouaur*
*    JS        Into13    666     1SKI       SIftt      WI    S  6  1       9  L  S       ,Slt I 81    i3                       # 6    S  rim rs  C      3* rit 180t  vei 058080 onto 3x' in  31n  13rws uSum1 iua     WI muru'
*   'S     91    tgo    but       esu       aim 1      41*So    a . U         9  I     I    11URI      I             a    I   I    a    c'I io allif2 1193  outo rai                      01111S*2  11 'Sn            33w d1614  *m  61a111*
*    (SW    U   90UI        KU5      Oitl      3*869     189    a  iI  I 6                      tg  6   I SI 35                   B      S Vt Ise 61l  36 alit 556   wsl V                       1313 3) *336    1*8  gul3l all 312 890118'11:1
8    (siW      9  iKis    at         119      omai       111.    a  Ia  1 6   I   I B          nt 91I                   I    I   a    S    I'l  SIs    9   3 wit   m oi  .'o ivtIm*1    AU3)6 133              o6l3w  u3auss 'n sa-Iiw
I    (506   el 61ull   11            VISA     90)        5619    0  *t I  a  I   IB        I  61011      I              I    S   I    3  I      416 5t 6   369 9t3   9)*1           586 B31 619    lt U1111 10   w    1463  Isla=$3 111 213 SOS 11111
B      s      iS t Ias t1    s 1     glol     11*58      9108    B  SI0 I           I         *0158    4'              S    I   S       I '(sONo  (9  1S6 I'll  61  I'lti019 onimt                                       u116 1918 LI61r
B    ($13   at   1961t   1551        6661     eant       Usti$   a  a1  s  it1  6 I            L0 91     1              6    a    0S    B          m (6 11 1*9   85  'lL   to1  l'if           01U13rU                  in    as  Vs0 SI*lg*Kii
o    i's"    191 la        881       Su1      '816       lots    66 1 I          It a8  S       o *6                    i    a   S            011  Ita'ISOa SIR8    *3  Ill   I1162163011 5"fsoI   13           r- a 361   tW5N s I ls   IIgl
e     13 6   81818s    19           116 in1till9*01    S  S  . 8!  I            3 6      I   Ills)      I              I    B   8    S    1') 650 119   3* I'll  916  C4          853860   /361893  10  3In    O a1W3B33361 gig Ill 616  r5'6
I    (rsW    1I 6111       6*        119      8*118      Lilt    9 88I  I0 6I                I IUSI                          I   U0   U9   VIISOBV9   30 I'l I  916  VIt  1101110M  3,3'm911gg313                            on    Vs 6i(65lu t
B    (SWv   81)1 gm         98o      sz       0191       hi*        0          II         I    &         Iaa aIat 161I a    i          a     1   O rB ua9  $Set'*     s   Va I                    itiurva              *82ow   "IS 10'agII
B    Also    of  9gm1      Ila       98II     itio        WIS    0  a1    a  1  8              *6           0                    S l"9 a I I r     C    6'819   V135**I   1355  66sm IS Ua m 6110                  110*  '865)to1 II  Sir 1 6IW  I
I    8583         61151    Its       UN8      616        119)    66156   L  L  B           S   199       I              S    6   5    I    SSuWM11    3waaI            SIll                  981030*1m85                fr)owtu sa31'1 ga'io
C    ('SW    91t SID*    SW0         till     diflI      61    I  BI I B         I  I      I   KM 619                   I    I   I    I      'S I58 ISO11 i          LtSAI' 9l)  6',         3838W  '83       863WU600386   m   31i s8S'g)r
a tswo           SIlLS    9113      9898     flea       611       6 Ia     6  5  I  6     1  %916       I              6    C   555  13    l 8'  6069  Ise #S         I  $lot  6686016 NIB'   611)8611836114                  55863  6.618518
I    dSP          0108     961       t9       got1        198    8  II a a      S  a       I   wit       I              I    a   ot   a    IllIs illa  36(l6           Itt           im         uW 5  1'  13ta60fl4oilf 0U8U 63a1mOIdaIa's11'91
a   s 5  0 89    K MII        am 1101       *66t      6869    6  a  I          to &     I   11869      I           I                I     V6  ISO I     V  or,    WrIt   10 91 II   63l681886886183USo 416111 336)16313  9rwr,8
8          Ia  ~~~~(S4     9) 95*66    801       1313      88)13      WI    6               9  1    I8   181:1        I              C    I0 1 I S         I Ise 1149V    36IS     )1LS 451  l    'e   s i 08113113 I801   A  tJ3    1628 3i lie/3) 3313*0638ll
Ia   j*su    It  WuJ5       UR6       ggoj     Gmc        l    66          1*6  a 08       I Kl             8 ssa 8                1   t)   I    (l 1gI'    3611    88t K13  61   i 313)) 031 )831 S3n             IMMIX8B3Us1a336.r*Sa'88
I:    i's"      I  I389     at        tci      a"         918    a  aI *  gal               1 11    8 I5s                     I   S    S    911Iseall    36'1  Itil   'Ii                05116103)1 1313               0M3S8 6'INS(Kr66'll
I      Irs      oi 681   *8        W1       *118       VA*     I  II a  a      I  I      I  61i6l      I              I    I   let  668  0       se 11,1(SI  39'913   6*19  1'          669853 Ws1 *w         is         t ass *563113  I)a33t
6    4d5111  of  6101      84        1oll     Rat        Il51    I  aI I 6      I 0        I   fi1*-1   I3              6         it it L I           Ise 50g'5   913i "St1  19            psIlO 8N1 '463          mllim@1661UvS it*0s1t-
a    turns  It  18681    t)9         "a6       9136)     89518       I  6         It I I       116       I   ~ m       a    I   I            ' a a    S 9m ISO 45111   6196 C&        Iwelelil  us3)133             IOtWd3i  506313 5l50(i
O    Jabi   1.8  1000       01       99        61668      810    60        a 1    86tI     1   18163      I 6                       8         '315IO        3*51    1813 SIit                      ma            lw MldXIN I'II 61381 514'362161 'a8'm
6    (35i   It  3131       of1       1068      69161     so"         I     6I 11  8 I      1   106   1  I         36    6    I   6    6    5' IS 3546      X6 I'll  1618  1.1  166361    3368li   ON1313                   Mai mvau   os l(815'
*    J oIII  amI     916        66I6      186)1     6168   I0Ia8   *  I 5             1   15.0*      I       no    6    I  8    6    Vl8I IS-I   3*1i. .l1    I~ VS0                      93mU6U*t"f5i 8W0'13551 'aI3
6 .(3181       1*91      *811     *619      918*      tell   s8   I0      9       6     3  8961"       1       8383            n    a 8    6ON 6    I83g Ise 8051   a  1.6                     6m5313              18388113K g     ulr961
6    (316         61161    6*6        ol 1988  609       Pitt    I  II  a6           I     I  )601        I       mm1    I    I   1111  us)  O'63' 9   Of el#           I  C9              '*8986  6I5 303 8618601W Me26 1XI   31013 685'965
S    666191166      tit       Mt*       1mlI61 9           65       880             1   11668      I       MM3    6    *   6    8      1   9'hs.9      i*'ll   Klt  S'I        102"w"13)1 ft 31                     63t16688161a'K1's:
of*'Ut*   t6161   6at          35       16  01 *06 B           86      )   a  a          161631     I      iio    a    a   I    0    0'81 O9'9   3(83  11          51i                  46 Gt3113134  41 0056    l "StOrIs 8S6rnzlI
I: 10 16 i's       9MD      6901      189)     68111      1*1    8  8I 6       9a   I 1  a   8 Mot1        I       M86N   6        I6   to1 Li  's Cl g    In O 'M    too  96  8gT8150  11'336) op331                 MOIS) 13 '336 5166t1111
If(66     113 i 8    I89881   689       t8111     fibs    S       3     I 5  S      I   *161       I      go0    I    1   96   of   *'5U on   4I     6 ISOplo  to 1,0 813          03365518136            itiu636833 g8m031636 ff1 11l
el "'a     581911   j 16*     15        mm        Bill  8)1   It ji jiI   II I    I     fit11   I         MN 38    6    0   a    a    '   r)9r    ISOc . Isa Kg              (owl3 flow1) V;m6  VI           6623 v683  63'33   hsS9als'
(316    Stee 6)88 6        Its    j  91         1191    16161      1        1  111  I 1  Zito   LI      3 03   6    6         6    V-1IS 81  *9  inSOItl   iII  (-6             ow86l  663M                 62*3 0680    313 510'908'5
futJ*6  111   1166)      sill      muW        uot    a      0 se   I  I  I6    I I91161        I     163  I           I   It     81139 l6L1                I S'6             s130 w     n68AW 3   t8wo  "to12) as3niona'9ag'ug
tutl   18191    at       us161  Iul 91688        161 8      6     9  636 I 83  1*63     18      83ot I    a   it.1 el   6'3 NI,S, Rt: 9  IIsle            611  a'lt       M)0861 Sell0)  *3$21       low06   me1) IN531361616358ti
S   1r     ma1        as 88611I86  118   910.1    t.9 10)) le le6leit   . IsI   I   slut1          1 6688)3      6       06   *6 tot  O     116 ('9    1 i le %  9118    9    I"69  vote) 961 Ill                  avail 1831 6861681
34))                                      1                                 .86I.isil                    1480..          lfi .S6J 1                    1861  04
OWN    3M                                                                                                                                                   loll        1136186 8128 98  18    03163  06    11)88 88   811'8  8)1*;3#P.  08  I6661I  2u3a00
ISO  606   3865318  8688               13958863888                             sun10    0 1008   388183  86       11W03  '6168)651  315393 o~
lomiAviio  3618829163o     a U82V1S38366t 388063*86*436 - 6083311161341668306698630   83316333101m
513136113031110 & 563313N8 SO666016 0IS3JD3368061313315



*    dSU      Du19     sit    658         U194       be)9    8 S  4 Ij              I  93184                     eg gsI               S'#So 93 9  Iser; Ii'      V9l           910900380 inU 3J3Us988'16'
a    also        "is666   Is1      14       OM49       IRS    I96466 14   I3               m 3   19   1         S           I   a53    l 3    B' 981   ISO 'S   I9 9Al         ('9380         313       (Bu       m        Y3 o4e'ug'4s
*    (533        Ism1     59       199       6139      888    I I      94I     9    1       9fIfsi   I             I    IS       8    *'8 '9I's  1 ISal         8  I's9    MT              9613,3fosu m3"    o 48313616sBC'lI
*    J's9        lust    36         tog1    ISSI       3943    35   3g I      B       ti 8I96I                          I   1S   S    VI C'w0'  3116Ise V1      I 9                        485313                    458O3i n313 831S'16S'38
I    dIllt       CMet     fi        * ssm  UtAl    68   8 3                   1  8    8  1sm         t             I      908I   a      1 6    6 O's 5   O's6   S  9'Ct       8156660 ) lot313 16Ue    iutim)3 5 11 6oltt3'4
B    (S3u        49904    499       693      WM(8      ml8    I5  5* I           8    I  6*198       t                  a   I  U    6*    Nu39 S'  ISO V11        *'S  NA      I (9BhW'13A36 IISS3I3I0        3m'mtit 3J3 ,jg'ti';3
*    d'SW        119418   99        1) si  il tIP      N188    6     0   st 5          a 0 M 11      1                  5             VI9 r88 9    VA el65      I   'lf"tnIlwxl 4833    iTM 3rn                               3,3 8,S',K,8
a    i's"U       an3      14it      fit      UK9       out1   I0  4  *  *    6         a    t                      I 6I   s   s    a    Slms' i Am's            * ni                       w       ]lsto]0    tltl
*    4168    94193m   536      1393     16*13     Otte          I 5     I   a    I  68*8       I             S   5   a    I   631 908 VI9   ISO e'         B  I'll                    98415 Sz   1    64664905  at  /  lew'*.c's
Ill'S       low1    131        11 (1    USC       9813    I6 I  I 4   8 I    B   9*9)            1             45   9        I     V1 d S'366  Ise 16's     Ir                       8034131 M  st3131tm       i1I31   ilii
*    (SWo    Ila8 4888               4683    645        4)     66      01   8          B   9I89 1 Stl5                  I   I    5    C's 1C'CIS Ise   1        I Olt                      4133*                     "M VI B18'1341
8    4191        5181     gm9       ml    still    9853    B  I  I 84    I             6 I  tiql     I             S    S   S           l  mV  SO's561'9    395   S345'11?  59In3s3                          80=      ' s WI 1'4*4'4411
*     '1          39968(  19 a       16      35I       6931 Bm    S  I 5 1  3 6        8  1119       1             I    I      0 5      'BMl5I  9 VISO all      I  183       lilt"    38 a" 1415313         *v -wipas5gg5'g9e k4
*    es"         5284   9au         lug3    Wide8   9311 5      I B1 9 f S             5   93893a  3                         0 8    S    S'  833   Ise I'65s    S  I'll        NM33   *a9  we 313         (918 9131 3n 5389114.85
I*     s (SW     16       dil 659            la61   1ff  491   69 331          3       9 39 4                      S    si      S   I    I    111 in   9  3   165',   5191             vi3m6398   88631            85I9JoNi 99j3 58.See 1'9
S    (sWs       1968    86.         9411    mist3      ml3   5@   I 6 91  5            9   9*403     4             B      6      5    O'sS68S    3568in   S1       3*13       "0      mm 831 13w                    43803  135411914'(
6    also        cut1    199       9833     51433     au9 8 8 4  5 9 4                 I   ml 9*                   I    6   6    I   S'66AM95'9   366l'S        6  Ill            (6198  95*                     8590vus eSIS'iut4'14
Ill         S~~~   r: :SW      *131              on33b646   89135   6    69    I  I I   I 6   a 6   8     m  I49   1             6    5        I 8    1668619   366'          6  (*8 99303       50fll d38 0W              flue5NS)   to 8U3'3g4l14'
*    dsW      a99      in9       HI9      NU1       Boll    8I  I 844     8         9  999        4                  0         6   I 111311OC's  I9SO 81 9'9I               *3360T33d'in)                   81J     33  13531'44z'g1
*    a-SUE       9*99     19o    Uri         gnu       61*     S S  3   I   I         8 1893t       4                  8        I    S l*'8  999  '9 N11661  6   l'sgl So13   633r11                             9113*333  uSIS'S44'
aS    's "SW     11118    (all    I833       19938     449     5  1  9 3        I  I   3  31M183             1 8                      all 89       ISO SI'l    S.  S'91                  S31lI0u1n9bU3p9 as                  1'.4
S a's"        file1d6  Its8      It"4      19814    699     6  4  S  5 a     a     I  19l                      I     0 69114        1       ' 69 9'?  AsaI   ' 1'93 543   91   91168816   '391                 93890639  S45'614'
*    d'1W  31   31891    19        *03      flu6       but'   a  I   I   I 4  3    4   1OM6          I             5      0          6', 939 I'C  16  '93       I  Il3         too  '101 a31368959                  563 3 3*3ja  585841t
5    (536        6199     999      935      6191       I6         I  I I 5  S S            Is  *I6                         1I 6       V1 m   V'I95'    289' Il      91f    (90390'3301 VI69363         (0V9931S3133AU4313 IM'914'9
*    d'SIM   8    98 1     981 ii  1143     9981       "o4f   I   I   5  1 4 B         I  81111      1             6    3  8    5   S' mm1 SC 11 im~            6   S'1  flit  3503 161    IN 134 311303139    31 N1 6331  s35'C3W'1
I    (six        9991     via3     83  391      9)uu   9991    9 4  I 8  6        1 S       tt I                   I9398  4           I's 6    S'S U CISO 66'    S  O'lt      i61*386no sit 3*3           (6163o 35919 sit 3*2 38r931'
*    (593   itf911    641          6i68     Ku96       3811    6 a  I   9   3     S    I   1(66   1                9    5        6    S's OM1' I's O slg   S6  9'5              383013 94 Ml3    (9358313  '$121a  3 619'111'91
6  'SW    it 1661       184      9*5      861       511        8  I I 1  I     I      11360t    4                8    8     0       'SI3 IN S V8   V I'liUl 9691'              5314 51 683           (S63lt81           W34   1118i'(34'3
O     CI t9iII    861   4*1      "let      6869    I  5 I  5 6  9               8111irt   I                  a   I   1   V'131 N       alIS * g 150'9,   9613  S'S       5r589538383)z 398?9              3)1483,3a&k"I
a        t        686      S1U      969      "is1      1988     I         i  lo45565    3  9489       1             6          6 U     6'S 91    [s'S   1599'    I 6'1I1)3  13 (3863'131   *69411
1503    690)5)3swan6   1989                18Ji381i 36313309010*64        0    0150051     S993131 39 193  31 O BNll 'SNOB6  139080  '93638                                                                           162no
3313    ~ ~   ~~                  165333883:                                                                         -      -           9189.1      m993Is0go995V911611111511
SCINIMIA04     NOOMISIVIND   38 0111INV 0.,11  1083313991d01 A 1036393L38  U  369131  581zJ3131
SM00133636019    A Sint 8613 1Si9  I 0cu113 lo9Me1lvin



16603663* K 11S*30 K  mks "Kim10  I 060116311
It9.N" 4!3IrLS  K M6051633  V rtmfIEicCIou - 1603413133  K 416N1S1384L38  r 3211306411 K 089116639
"Swit cmsto oass  as    ISI tis0863a06SSKpg
43368  uiciton          of~~~tasgasl te              (X3*s.                                                                                                                                                  F  .4.....  16    006
cm                                                 act  isa. (swea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O t HI. siuNS..    i   *   coit usn   16610530o 3.   08151033333315.30                iowt 311653311  I3 a")
mjBs.uc  . so a          w o           1 ~~~~~~~16~~V ~xi    woo. gm ~~~~o.M..*,~ ~ ~ Ie   o                     ot     sr Mat nfoolPII332 III cost   *31i5a  fool".   3A83   lolA    S.                    96
4141.13,11t1 t1M                     *CL. S*5a341l              v.43         4.139I34.334   .3            I                      2      19312         0 2432309              Sul       9991    11110      420    M"ss
41.5111.02311At. 3a  Ou1361mamok paA ir.s                                    psiot   4.60*3.61 6    1                           7       1551   I      J7  sAIAAB   242                si6t      so4      101    3019          15, 
4g.511s.oI  116. ams                 ouauaci0                    4.1  *      1..e oi  .6  a.0    I        o A    I 6                     1934   6     8      I   3   3A      M9A       et"6      337      Set    "It9                  A
41.311.011 tit  II   1,11111112 .4I S                         .  t *eo . 50s .6           A A      3              s     311860        I 46        3 AIIa 0132         39239     si2l      1169   ism3        3115.1    S
4,Lsb.se11      u;au.41ti   4U    BAer n) Lisa                               3.885   S.10*3.6                      a                    164198                               3)IIA 91  35191    3182      S9     3lloy6      111S)
1141.123.911 WA 662SW                Iii. 0         sca         3.?I 33    2.401   S.6433.6    0    6a                           2    t429            I 1  4      I4 9S      6S  6    1903      231      314am   lux4         MY S     A
42.51321.0 361   ".Slot. NM u                    ,118 c          4.3 6,.6 oi  6 '9 1g.6    3 A 6                                        324 1 6          3  2 II11a    309            39324      ml5    843    13196 6   us.?    6
11I.P129 023 16416m                  $18wl                       4.33        6.363   1.30Su  .9    6          I s                        ii o                 3  019 A 6 1a a a    ma    l       Ms1    3)33    232          MS.P    3
42.111.mi 3105SIAS K  663            6416.40                    33.4  451    LI. Os, 5.6016".9   to I S 3    S                          i I 337     S1 6A32I66               4,181    31123    291      233131   34324  to  35.    a
43.543.03 to CRUMC                   (/132                       6.6A        6.090 ls. o IN  .6    A      I A 6                  S      M34    6      II3  5AI 36            s3it      MI        4"4       99     4134       U&1    a
33.56126114Etc 31*3t*UIIAI           11(63                       2.16        0.081   4.60Su1.6    6 IS             A             2      2323   S      3 II       3 0a    321           2394      374      *63     333        "1,)    0
3    C.I3E3 cgc 3311534113 O10k13   11H iti  GM)~ 8390    **   215 4.i 9s3  4.3  1I .,   g AS                a 3                  33362   3    0  2  1    36II       0 4        ISSIS     3382      89    31119"  11  VW.    a
113.3.0 23CIc6ta Ofu,.IA gAI           c, cm91a a iuu           16.18  136    8.6 ost 6.6 14  .e    I     A A 6                  2      8493   6    I  24a6  36  S           161       9014     to"       659    811"  88mIS.P    a
33..S61.o itVIIh/eLA "M$3                 Ill63   3383331        3.63on    24.301 4s .33923.6   30   38a S                        2      1424   3    6  323   360            1 31184   6lse      us       342     93*1  33  335l    0
ai.3s.M o,6c,c33  15383031so t0fItIS614                         4.1  520   1.311o  4.3 14 .0   03 3    0                        2      *061 1 3         32 3  3             Om 3104  3339       149      451    i243  .'4   US 
13.01ol.338Cit Sol *tA333mh1)        tit 56  31904233            0.2  433   24.391 DS   .308 3.0    I I3           I              I     2191    3    3  32A0  1 0 6             128    102       "83      1       9339  34  6.98
33.033.615..S0UUSlMaw.Et8810                                     1.56S       6.091    1.40S.   .8    5 A  6   S                   3    39338   I      8483366IA              5A       3943      3113     293     44327       331.,
11.011.011 C/C 394 4iC/SOlO A3C      tit 633  1hM  L3.C31*  4.1  6           6.6  6  .4 P3.5   Is   1 so           6             3      6134,  3    2 6      6      6  a     WA1       ml8   I12s        1W4    6397         MS
3S.31.01 C,CW1  3 IC/34866K5         AMc. tft*136l31c            1.3I        5.6 553  6.3 313.6    0 A A S                       2      C424    7     I  3310266              113644   193       ON3      43      "a0        33.
11.101S.9309 0311 35*161*U *860931013.                           1.I il31  1.0K1 .6 a. um.o    I          I3   3                  4     4233 3             3     3aA AI 0       I     46521     373      fell   4211  23   i.
I1.333.S230011t* I'4*KUI                           awlC0030     16.5  s233  6L$0Om   6.4 Ott3.6    I      A I    62                     114      a3I sm6 6IIAA  0                     ism32  13233       32)9    ism   3 is P         0 
33.033. 3331 it3/Lt90awl              Mh. low                   34.9  44?   20.26116.08VI33.6    I        A6     0               It'   3236 a 5       0686666                         Is3134     M91      16      3     JI42    i ,   0
23.3.01693L.saline                   Cie 219 166.I64303l3    JI.1"  19 32.3 K    6. 01 13.8    6              A *                 2      466    I    0690666                    3      330       330      31      433   3    s. 
23.334. 26 1C2910C. Iowa$1  13C223113tc191AL 66383   4.419M332.3 At   4.3 8531 6.    A0 3                                        I      M33    I      3066630                  3       3231      set      Set     3868       m.f    6
22.341.8)6 dEM2  ItICE4VIL  S1OIG  C/C 233        C       I  2 116CCA .6 .  49101  4.164.1At 613  S.    6 AI 3                   2      I3159   I    aAAaIS 6          a       a       3341      l3i      lob4     3515  3  S   )1:1    6
21.063.6331.1U13160 303EJ33333  M1 221AM. $WA  Nt  35.3 3  3941   9.91K64.2  13.6    I                    I I    A               I     96I           IIA06           6    01S36 3      333       13A      140     UP3   $   is        I
21.1114. 33..3o                       MSj     ofl usM BIAS      14.4  :393  30.1 a  . 3.53.6    6    3   3                       $    24464          a     IA636     60        3       ml04     314      t663   "440   to   .1.       3
12.1111.62611 L4310311               3340us lo . 3A06E5*3    LIs 813.4 lost  .6833.8    6    6                     0             2       WV9         0      16I,3        6            M38        413      430     639        i.       I
3712.611 63 u13U63*L.1*F81mm)   3. LA  6030                     1.3  441   33.4 5t61 I.'s3.          6    6  6    6                    32291   S     0      068       0        a      36131     11,9      I1l   12235    i.           3
3.31.64S631 . L*6853                 CIC3UCP                    2.9  441   33.45636.6563.6    A    3   S                         2      2442   0     565666                    6       2018      39  193          26424w   is 
43.110.S33CCtit M33138*2AM)          K 13138110 5.393315       24.3  3123  3.31   6 43 13.1    A          a   S 0                I     99,193          to6361 3   IIA 3             333433     us       213    a3944   S151 
44.644.0261        to1 3301)96166    CI 514 (18911 ow 1632.6  3111   1.11    6.6 Pst 3.S    6 3   6    6                              39013   3    10 a6     77      S     4143    51334       l18      3I91    14196  6a   S6 0
46.644.033C/CS4 &/9IC(3m NW$U                                   4.4  an   231         4.65Off Li    I     66    I                I    3#694    S    0      203   66         *On      3923       61$      453    M3)23 se       5) 
44.644.043C                              W C04IC/P   still0     4.4  421   2.31   6.   s .6 133         30         I             1    21244   3      6640263                240      mm23       911,     bi       M 41* 944    SIt
34.644.81      M  INN.3310 ALM            64  3i4*13            3.i  313   511.6 L    S .3 133.     0        A 0    3                  3411,  S    6I3             I6  a    2308     3123       M%1    M9    1134   it   a3)
25.643.0361    mm tcling             cCftM  IR COKI#           39.6  523   36.3At64.46133i.2    6    30    5                     3    3311     4    63 Isa  3SA6 3                1154  43     n31      393t   g39m   too 516) 
MAS.64.lO/M   f.cit  Vi              13043                       4394 3. fig.03vim  to's3i6s6                                          31719   4    a4160206A                60      592132    734?      M3     4264          3.?,   3
II.564.431*ISM   "MOM    I13I. Vito                            13.3  643   3136 4.63.               A                                   a"  7 39    a    624     1012,    title                134       13      142$ SL
12.51.O        no.030                U 3                        3.1  440   35313.11 M6.9    A    6                              1312   I    6                    'I*0       5693      19it31             63#                        'a42  36
I   A A                            q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 97 -                                                       ANN= 5
Tsble 6
FIFtI ROAD RREILZJ TATION ND WAIM  Z IIACt PRASCT
ROAD NlING ND StNAL2N  P00M
COST SU@W.  4')
..... ......_____._.......................__._...__._.__.__........._.,......  ...._.w____.....
TOTAL      M1*3U.S A3) SlCtlS  FOO1 BlUDMW  (by m"ui       )
LEIGN    WATMZ.LS          UKWT          LA            TOA
PROJECT TYPE                      (kn)         RD$           Ds            aft           RD$
..... ......__. __.___. __................... _____............. __..... ____._................ _._._.........___..................-
Rehabliltationt projects                           1.147.4  3.871,970.8    199,925.8    117,098.0  4,188,994.6
Pwmemat mrkS & suns projects                         U83.5  1760.799.0    124,286.5         84,356.1  1,969*443.6
Fv_ment marks projecta (signs not Included)          103.3    14C,454.6        0,663.3       8,579.6    163,697.7
Sign project. (pavement mArks not included)          108.2    421,616.4       15,744.0      10,571.9    4484114.3
........ .......................____. ____._............._._ _ _....................................... _._........_,_ ___ ___._ .....______._ 
TOTAL ARS  X sIS P8ROGRAM                2,242.7  6,201,043.0    346,619.6    220,607.6  6,770,270.2
i                                   . .........................................................................................
Cost alysis pr pared using the rate of excWang of USSI - BDS7.60



- 98 -
AN=E 6
Page 1 of 10
DOMINICAN REPUPLIC
FIFTH ROAD RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Technoloav Transfer Proaram
for Surface Treatments and Thin Asphalt Concrete Overlags
General
1. One of the constraints that h.as prevented adequate periodic maintenance
in the Dominican Republic has been the lack of expertise with advanced
technologies related to surface treatments of bituminous-paved roads. Such
treatments should be carried out as normal periodic maintenance activity to
prevent deterioration and to extend the economic life of these paved roads.
The lack of expertise affects not only the Secretariat of Public Work.'
(SROPC) maintenance effort but also the domestic construction industry.
2.   The proposed technical assistance program will be geared to technical
personnel and manual labor from SEOPC' Directorate for Highway Maintenance
(DGM) and from domestic construction firms that are registered by SEOPC as
qualified for road pavement works. The program is to be carried out mostly in
the field. Road sections in need of surface treatment or thin overlay will be
selected from SEOPC's rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
Program Obiectives
3.   Through a functional working and training scheme, the program will help
SEOPC, during three years, to upgrade the capability of the DGM and the
domestic construction industry to carry out bituminous surface treatments and
thin asphalt concrete overlays. The major program objectives ares
(i)   To ensure that the technical field staff of DGM and that of the
domestic construction industry acquire a sound knowledge of the
basic principles, design criteria and construction methods for
bituminous surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays;
(ii)   To carry out surfece treatments and thins asphalt concrete overlays
under contract, improving current construction practices and
introducing new technologies; and
(iii)   To ensure that DGM's technical staff acquire the necessary
expertise to program, budget, im-plement, control and supervise
bituminous surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays.



- 99 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 10
ProRram Description
4.   To achieve its objectives the program will be carried out by one
specialized firm satisfactorily equipped to cover the entire process of
resurfacing, from the manufacture of the asphalt products to the execution of
the works. This firm should have specialists, researchers, laboratories,
etc., to teach and assist in implementing the technologies. The program will
be carried out in the period 1992-1994 and will be financed by the World Bank-
supported project.
5.   The specialized firm will directly execute the works on new technologies
and will engage local contractors for the conventional works, to be selected
from the rehabilitation program for 1992 and 1992. During these tw- years,
the firm will transfer technology on surface treatments and thin asphalt
concrete overlays to local firms and SEOPC's staff, who will execute, in turn,
the works of the 1994 Periodic Maintenance Program (702 by contract and 302 by
force account) under supervision of the International firm.
Proaram Components
6.   The technical aseistance program will have two component: (i) execution
of works in 1992 and 1993; and (ii) technical assistance to improve surface
treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays and to supervise the works
carried out by selected local contractors antd SEOPC's staff (trained in 1992-
93 under the program) in 1994. These two components will be included in one
contract and awarded to one qualified specialized firm meeting the conditions
required in the bidding documents.
Scope of the Contract
7.   The proposed contract will include: (i) surface treatments of 552 km..
from the 1992 and 1993 periodic maintenance programs. Tables 1 (1992) and 2
(1993) show the lists of the works included; (ii) thin asphalt programs for
1992 and 1993; (iii) technical assistance in pavement technology on surface
treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays in 1992 and 19931 and (iv)
superv4sion of periodic maintenance works carried out by local firms and
SEOPC's staff in 1994 (see Table 4).
8.   Out of the total amount for civil works in the contract, about US$2
million will be set aside for carrying out works using new technologies in
testing sections to be proposed by the specialized firms (among the road
sections in Table 3) during the phase of prequalification. The proposal will
be evaluated by SEOPC, in accordance with the evaluation clauses included in
the prequalification documents. The remaining amount will be allocated to
carry out conventional works in the road sections selected by SEOPC in the
bidding documents.



- 1N -
Page 3 of 10
Civil Works Cgoponent
9.   The conventional work units to be included in the contract will be the
following:
(a) Surface treatments without aggregates:
-    Prime coats
-    Tack coats
(b) Surface treatments with aggregates:
-    Simple treatments
-    Double treatments
-    Multiple treatments
-    Seals
(c) Slurry seals
(d) Cold asphalt concretes
(e) Hot asphalt concretes
In cases (a), (b), (c) and (d), asphalt emulsions will be used as binders; in
case (e) the binders will be asphalt bitumens. These works will be performed,
based on SEOPC's design and specifications, on a list of highways selected by
SEOPC from the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance programs. The contract
will be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Guidelines of the World Bank.
10. The work units to be includsd in the contractor's proposal for new
technologies will be the followingt
-    thin asphalt concrete layers using modified binders on .bout 20
kms., to be proposed by the firms (among the sections included in
Table 3) in the phase of prequalification.
-    porous or draining hot asphalt concrete with modified asphalt
bitumens as binders on about 20 kms. to be proposed by the
specialized firms (among the sections included in Table 3) in the
phase of prequalification.
11. The modified binders for these work units will be proposed by the
contractor and imported duty-free from the manufacturing countries. The works
will be carried out under the contractor's design and specifications. The
proposals will be evaluated taking into account quality, feasibility and price
(see paras. 21 and 22).



- 3.01 -
MM 6
Page 4 of 10
Technical Assistance Comgonent
12. The technical assistance will aim to design, manufacture, execute,
control and supervise surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete layers
(less than 500 mm. or 2 inches) carried out with asphalt emulsions and asphalt
bitumens, modified or not, as binders. The assistance vill include
specifications and defining the scope of these works.
13. The assistance in design will aim to improve technical procedures
comonly used by SEOPC engineers for determining the optimal proportion of
surface treatment and asphalt concrete. In particular, the assistance will
include: (i) selecting the appropriate treatment or asphalt concrete in each
case; (ii) selecting aggregates for the treatment of asphalt concrete; (iii)
selecting appropriate binders for the treatment of asphalt concrete; (iv)
determining the optimal emulsion or bitumen dosage; and (v) determining, if
applicable, the optimal mechanical characteristics of asphalt concretes.
14. The assistance in manufacturing will provide information about: (i)
appropriate equipment to manufacture the mixes and asphalt concretes; (ii)
criteria to select the appropriate equipment in each case; (iii) guidelines
for using this equipment; (iv) constraints on using treatments and asphalt
concretes; and (v) guidelines for appropriate compacting.
15. The assistance in execution of works will provide: (i) information about
the existing equipment which will be used to execute the contract; (ii)
criteria for selecting the appropriate equipment in each case; (iii)
guidelines for using this equipment; (iv) constraints on using treatments and
asphalt concretes; and (v) guidelines for appropriate compacting systems.
16. The assistance in control of works will provide technical guidelines for
executing the contract.
17. The assistance in supervision of works carried out by local contractors
(70%) and SEOPC's force account (30%) during the third year of the contract
will provide: (i) reviewing prequalification documents, bidding documents and
procedures, and contract awards; (ii) monitoring work quantity and quality;
(iii) certificating contractor's invoices; and (iv) receiving the works.
18. 2he technical assistance will also include a training program at office,
laboratory and field levels, in the central department and in the districts.
The training program will be directed towards training personnel in work
methods for surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays, both in
theoretical and practical issues. The trainees will be selected by SEOPC from
its own personnel and from skilled personnel of the private domestic
construction industry, qualified by SEOPC as road pavement contractors, that
submit their applications to SEOPC and are accepted. The trainees from these
private firms who pass the training courses will be given certificates.  In
future bidding documents for procurement of surface treatments and thin
asphalt concrete overlays, SEOPC will include clauses requiring that the



- 102 -
ARME 6
Page 5 of 10
contractor provide this type of certified personnel for executing the wort's.
During the third year of the program (1994)9 surface treatments and thin
asphalt concrete overlays will be awarded by SEOPC to local firms which will
be required to use these trained personnel and 4pjropriate equipment.
19. As for the staff of the SEOPC that will be trained under the program,
the contractor will submit during the prequalification stage a proposal for a
training program and equipment needed so as to:
(i) improve the execution of the conventional works that will be
carried out directly by the SEOPC;
(ii) enable SEOPC to supervise contract execution of pavement works
after the technic 1 assistance is concluded; and
(iii) enable SEOPC to manage future periodic maintenance programs.
In order to ensure the effective participation of selected staff of SEOPC in
the training program, the contractor will include, in the bid offer, a
reimbursable amount to be used for payment of travel and subsistence expenses,
and auxiliary means.
20. The contractor will provide an appropriate laboratory at the central
level and will coaplete the existing laboratories at the district level to
carry out the program for monitoring the works and for training. The
laboratory at the central level will be a section of the existing SEOPC
laboratory and SEOPC will provide roc2 for it in the same building. This
section of the central laboratory will work only for surface treatments, thin
asphalt concrete overlays and training included in the contract. When the
program is completed, this section will be incorporated into SEOPC's Central
Laboratory.
Procurement
21. The SEOPC will invite for prequalification all local firms which
manufacture road binders and contractors of road paving works that wish to
participate in the program. The prequalification process will be carried out
using the standard prequalification document prepared by the SEOPC and
approved by the Bank. Prom among the prequalified local firms, the
specialized firms will select one local manufacturer of binders and four (one
per district) paving firms for thin asphalt concrete layers and four (one per
district) for surface treatments and slurry seals, which will directly benefit
from the transfer of technology. Given the special scope and objectives of
the contract, it will be expressly recommended that the specialized firms form
association with the selected local firms (joint ventures) in line with the
objectives of the program.
22. The specialized firms interested in the contract will be prequalified by
SEOPC in accordance with the prequalification documents previously approved by



- 103 -
Page 6 of 10
the Bank. At this stage, the firms will submit their proposal on technical
assistance and new technologies in the form required by the prequalification
documents expressly prepared for this contract. The prequalification process
should be based on the following criteria:
(i)   previous experience and performance record with respect to similar
works in the two components of the contract.   The contractoro must
justify that in the last five years they have carried out the
following works:
-    300 kms. of pavement with thin layers using conventional
asphalt concrete;
-    300 kms. of asphalt surface treatments;
-    200 kms. of  conventional slurry seal treatments;
-    100 kms. of thin asphalt concrete layers, using modified
emulsions as binders; and
-    100 kms. of macro slurry seals using modified emulsions as
binders;
Also, the contractors must have experience, as an enterprise or group of
enterprises, in the following fields:
-    supervision and quality control of paving vorks;
-    technical assistance to public entities or private enterprises
in the field of road paving with conventional and new
technologies;
-    research in the characteristics and applications of bituminous
binders, both in its manufacturing and practical applications;
-    execution, at least once, of a mixed program of construction
and technical assistance in a developing country;
(ii) financial resources according to the evaluation criteria specified
in the prequalification document;
(iii) staff experience, including a principal and an alternate for each
of the specialties indicated in para. 23 of these TOks and a
general project coordinator, all with at least 15 years of
experience; all other staff should have at least 10 years of
experienco;
(iv) proposed work program that details all the activities defined in
the TORe for the two components of the program and defines those
aspects of the technical assistance to be proposed by the
contractor;
(v) detailed proposal of the works to be carried out with new
technologies, in accordance with para. 10 of these TORs;



- 104 -
Page 7 of 10
(vi) equipment list, detailing the specialized equipment that will be
used in the execution of the program of the civil works, the
equipment that must be temporarily or permanently imported if it is
not available in the country, and the equipment expressly dedicated
to the execution of the civil works with new technologies. The
detailed equipment list should only include specialized equipment
or equipment that is considered essential for the execution of the
contract in its two components;
(vii) viability of the proposal, taking into consideration the work
programs, the assigned resources and the specific conditions in the
Dominican Republic;
(viii) cost of the technical assistance component and of the civil works
using new technologies, based on a detailed unit price study.
These unit prices, for technical assistance and civil works with
new technologies, cannot be altered in later stages of the bidding
process after the final bids offers for the entire program
(including conventional civil works) are submitted. (For
prequalification purposes, only the technical merits of the study
will be evaluated, not the final cost.)
Staffing
23. The technical assistance will be provided by the following specialists.
(i) a highway engineer, with experience in planning, programming and
supervising asphalt paving operations, who will be the program
leader and coordinator (42 months);
(ii)  a highway engineer, with background in pavements and materials and
with experience in construction of asphalt surface treatments and
thin asphalt concrete layers (24 months);
(iii) a laboratory specialist, vith experience in organization and
coordination of road material laboratories (36 months);
(iv) a construction specialist with experience in coordination and
execution of surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays
(24 months); and
(v) a construction supervisor (civil engineer), with experience in
organization, execution and control of asphalt paving operations
(36 months).
24. It is envisaged that the technical assistance program will be carried
out over n period of three years and will require a total of 162 man-months.
All staff must be fluent in Spanish.



- 105 -
Page 8 of 10
Executiny government AxencX and Countervart Stgff
25. DON will be the executing Jgency. The permanent technical staff of DON
and SEOPC's Directorate for Highways and the skilled staff of local firms
selected by SEOPC will be recipients of the assistance. In addition, SEOPC
may consider including university graduates and engineers employed by local
consulting firms with which SEOPC has contractual relations.
26. The execution of the program will be carried out in the following
manner:
(a) conventional civil works, by local firms associated with, or
proposed by, the contractor from among the prequalified by the
SEOPC, four (one p2r district) for thin asphalt concrete layers and
other four (one per district) for surface treatments and slurry
seals works.
(b) civil works with new technologies, directly by the specialized firm
(or group of firms) awarded the contract.
(c)  technical assistance, directly by the specialized firm (or group of
firm.) awarded the contract.
(d)  the manufacturing of convent-nal binders (asphalt bitumen, fluid
bitumens and emulsions), by the local firm proposed by the
contractor, from among those prequalified by the SEOPC.
(e) the manufacture of special binder6, by the specialixed firm (or
group of firms) awarded the contract.
8chedule
27. The contact will be carried out in seven phases. In the first nhase,
the coordinator of the program will review current surrace treatment practices
employed by SEOPC snd by local firms working as road pavement contractors for
SEOPC, including, but not necessarily limited to, t:he following:
(a) design procedures;
(b)  technical specifications;
(c)  methods of construction, supervision and traffic control;
(d)  suitability and mechanical conditions of the equipment;
(e)  availability and suitability of materials;
(f)  methods of asphalt storage and heating; and



- 106 -
Page 9 of 10
(g) expertise of operators and medium level technicians.
28. In the second phase, upon completion of the review done under the first
phase, the consultants will prepare a specific program for civil works and
technical assistance, and will submit the program to SEOPC with supporting
documentation, including working papers with their findings and
recommendations for program implementation. The program on civil works will
cover, but no necessarily be limited to, the following:
-    final engineering design of surface treatments and thin asphalt
concrete overlays included in the contract;
-    final technical specifications ior executing the works included in
the contract;
-    Definite work program which will not exceed the time frame
established in the contract; and
-    Definitive list and work program of surface treatments and overlays
to be executed under new technologies.
29. The program of technical assistance will cover, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
(a) short-term seminars for SEOPC and contractors' staff. The state of
the art of bituminous surface treatments and thin asphalt concrete
overlays should be covered in full depth;
*b) on-the-job training conducted by the consultants. For this
purpose, works included in the contact will be selected. Emphasis
should be given to quality control of crushed rock aggregates and
asphalt materials, preparation of surfaces for bituminous surface
treatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays, application of
gravel chips and asphalt binders, compaction methods and traffic
control; and
(c) preparation of guidelines and practical manuals for sealings,
surface treatments, slurries and asphalt concretes.
30. In the third phase, SEOPC will discuss and agree on the proposed
programs with the consultants. The three initial phases will be carried out
in three months.
31. In the fourth nhase, the consultants will prepare the followings (i)
the final designs and technical specifications for civil works; (ii) written
material for personnel training; and (iii) lists of required improvements to
the existing laboratory facilities. This phase will be carried out in three
months.



- 107 -
ARME 6
Pase 10 of 10
32. The fifth staae will consist of the execution of the approved programs
for civil works and technical assistance to be carried out in 1992 und 1993
(24 months). The execution of the civil works with new technologies and the
technical assistance program vill be carried out directly by the specialized
firm awarded the contract. The execution of the conventional civil work. vill
be carriee out by selected local firms in accordance with par&. 21 of these
TORs.
33.  The sixth ghase will consist of supervising the periodic mainteu*uee
works carried out by local contractors in 1994 (with skilled personnel trained
under technical assistance during 1992 and 1993).
34. In the seventh and last phase (overlapping with the sixth phase) the
consultants vill: (i) evaluate the results of the program; (ii) formulate
recommendations for follow-up action; (iii) assist DGM until the end of the
program for 1992-94 in order to ensure the continuation of the tasks when the
consultants leave; and (iv) prepare the 1995-1996 program for surface
triatments and thin asphalt concrete overlays. The evaluation of the program
for 1992-94 and the preparation of the pro-ram for 1995-96, will be included
in the final report. During the period that services are rendered, the
consultant will submit quarterly reports to the DGM DirectrT General.



SEALINGS AND SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS FOR THE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM (1992) .
(CIVIL WORKS)
Road Section                           L.ngth Surface            Shoulder       ADT       Cost. Estimate
Or;gikr                        End                   (km)   Type Width   Type       Width      V/d     (RD$)     (U)
SAL. AZUA                   C/C 619 (ACC. PUERTO VIEJO)   4.14    AC   8.80   DST         2.3    3140    557675   120026
C/C 519 (ACC. PUERTO VIEJO  C/C 044 (ACC. BARAHONA)      9.98    AC   7.50   DST          2.1    3140   1327680    7338S
C/C 003 (ACC. ROMANA)       ACC/ SAM RAFAEL              7.67    AC   7.00   GRAV         1.0     310    988260   174679
ACC. SAN RAFAEL             ENT. BOCA DE YWUA           10.80    AC   7.00   DST          1.0     310   1383828    182098
SAL MAO                     C/C 016 (LOS QUEMADOS)      14.22    AC   8.80   AC           1.6     910   1890242   222816
C/C 016 (LOS QUEMADOS)      C/C 031 (ENT. SANETA)       21.49    AC   8.80   DST          1.6     700   368875S   472426
SAL. SA8ANETA               ENT. LOS ALUACIGOS          12.32    AC   6.30   AC           1.2     370   2057397   283456
SAL. LOS AIMACIGOS          ACC. PARTIDO                13.88    AC   8.60   DST          1.0     370   2317911   306429
ACC. PARTIDO                C/C 043 SATO. DE LA CRUZ    13.02    AC   6.60   DST         1.0     370   2174294   295853
C/C 132 (FORTALEZA)         C/C 014 (ACC. SAN VICTOR)    1.68    AC   8.60   DST          1.0    6260    219323    260
C/C 014 (ACC. SAN VICTOR)   C/C 212 (SAN VICTOR)         6.36    AC   8.00    -           0.0     960    830295   109259
C/C 212 (SAN VICTOR)        EL CAIMITO (ARROYO FRIO)    13.10    AC   6.00   GRAV         1.7     690   1710200   225046
EL CAIMITO (ARROYO FRIQ.)    C/C 005 (SABANETA YASICA)    27.20    AC   6.00   GRAY       0.7     690   3660949   487272
SAL. LOMA DE CABRERA        Q/C 246 (ACC. COLON. RIO L)  13.78    DST  3.00   SOIL        1.0     110   1798362   238384
C/C 246 (ACC. COLON. RIO L) ENT. RESrAURACION           10.45    DST  3.00   SOIL         0.0     110   1384243   179621
LA ROMANA                  C/C 102 (C/GUERRERO)         13.80    AC   7.00   AC           1.4     690   1801684   237072
C/C 102 (C/GUERRERO)       CUAYMATE                      5.50    AC   7.00   AC           1.4     690    718022    94486
CUAYMATE                    C/C 034 (C/PIHNTAO)         1S.90    AC   7.00   DST          1.4     S90   2075'39   273140
C/C 005                    CUANANICO                    11.38    DST  5.60   GRAY         1.0     16O   1485654   195496
CUANANICO                   ENT. LOS HIDALCOS           14.00    DST  0.80   CRAY         1.1     180   1627694   240607         co
SAL. BSI                    ZONA FRANCA                  8.46    AC   7.60   [ST          1.5    1730    671840   114718
Total Length                                     248.81                                    1992  34337738  4631747
e At an exhang  rate of US81=087.80
Ii



SEALINGS AND SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS FOR THE TECHNOLOCY TRANSFER PROCRAM (1993) -
(CIVIL WORKS)
Road Section                              Length     Surface         Shoulder        ADT        Cost Estimate
Origin                            End                   (km)    Type           Type       Width               ':4 ..Os)  (USS)
ENT.VILLA ALTAGRACIA          SAL.VILLA ALTAGRACIA            2.47     AC    7.00    DST         0.0     10600    329972      43417
ACC.FALCONBRIOGE              ACC.BONAO                       4.44     AC    7.30    DST         2.5     10190    593148      78045
ACCT. BONAO                   C/C 012 (ACC CONSTANZA)         9.73     AC    7.30    DST         2.5     11070   1299850    111032
C/C 0i2 (ACC.CONSTANZA)       C/C 019 (ACC.SAN FCO.MAC)      14.38     AC    7.30    AC          2.5      9550   1921063    252770
C/C 019 (ACC.SAN FCO.MAC)    C/C 023 (EL PINO)                3.58     AC    7.30    DST         2.6     10180    475587      82577
C/C 023 (EL PINO)             ACC. LOMA ORTEGA                3.47     AC    0.00    DST         0.0     10180    463584      80995
ACC. LOMA ORTEGA              ENT. LA VEGA                    4.60     AC    0.00    DST         0.0      7220    601184      79100
ACC. LA VEGA                  C/C 021 (ACC. CUTUPU)           2.80     AC    7.30    DST         2.6     8820     347339      46702
C/C 021 (ACC. CUTUPU)         C/C 028 (ACC. JARABACOA)        2.76     AC    7.40    AC          2.0     8620     368714      48615
C/C 028 (ACC.JARABACOA)       CC 211 (ACC. MOAC)             22.03     AC    7.00    DST         2.6     9480    2943032    387241
PUENTE ISABELA                ROTONDA VILLA MELLA             6.11     AC    7.00      -         0.0     2400     682855      89823
SAL. SANTIAGO                 C/C 219 (ACC.TAMBORIL)          4.72     AC    6.60    DST         1.8     8490     830664      82a97
C/C 219 (ACC. TAMBORIL)       C/C (LICEY AL MEDIO)            4.67     AC    8.60    DST         1.6     8490     610515      80331
C/C 221 (LICEY AL MEDIOC)    C/C 210 (ACC.ACNAC LA R.)        1.80     AC    8.60    DST         1.6     6260     213747      28124
C/C 210 (ACC.ACNAC LA R.)    C/C 021 (ACC. SAN VICTOR)        6.04     AC    8.60    DST         1.6     6260     673303      88692         
SAL.SANTIAGO (FTE.PATINO)    C/C 226 (ACC. SABANA IGL)       11.36     AC    6.20    DST         1.0     2080    1618229    199509
C/C 225 (ACC. SABANA IBL)    ENT. JANICO                     10.12     AC    6.20    DST         1.0     1490    1361961    177888
SAL. JANICO                   SAN JOSE DE LAS MATAS          14.65     CA    5.60    OST         1.0     1490    1946100    265934
C/C 001 (PIEDRA BLANCA)       ENT. MAIMON                     8.90     DST   8.80    DST         1.5     1210    1188969    166443
SAL. MAIMON                   HATILLO (CARR. LA PRESA)        7.10     DST   6.20      -         0.0    1l1o      9480s3    124803
C/C TOCOA                     COTUI                          18.91     CA    6.00    OST         1.0     1150    2528225    332398
C/C 216 (ACC.ESPERANZA)       C/C 001 (C/UAYACANES)          9.32     CA    6.30    DST         1.5      990    1246077    16a828
JORCILLO                      EL CERCADO                     11.80     DST   5.00     -          0.0      330    1676388    207419
C/C 106 (C/ OTRA BANDA)       C/C BAVARO BEACH               28.01     DST   6.40    DST         1.1      870    3741913    492367
SAL. CAYETANO GERMOSEN        C/c 021 (HINCHA)                3.76     DST   0.00     -          0.0        0     500970    86917
C/C 209 (C/ESPERANZA)          SPERANZA (ACC. AMINA)          3.89     CA    7.00     -          0.0        0     479696      63104
ESPERANZA (ACC. AMINA)        ('C 029 (ACC. MAO)              7.16     CA    6.00    SOIL       0.0         2     9s8619    12857
CAPOTILLO                    HIPOLITO BILLINI                5.20      DST   8.20    GRAV       1.0         0     694878      91405
C/C 132                      JOSE CONTRERAS                 12.01      DST   8.20     -         0.0         0    1804440    211110
VILLA RIVAS                   ENT. ARENOSO                    6.B6     DST   7.00     -         0.0         2    1156907    162224
C/C 510                      ACC. SABANA BUEY                9.40      DST   8.00    GRAV       1.0         0    1266786    165232
C/C 002                       C/C s06                        4.70      DST   8.00     -         0.0      802      627882     82o18
C/C 002                      ENT. PADRE LAS CASAS           19.19      DST   8.00    SOIL       1.0      380    2563831    337319
C/C 002                      ESTESANIA                       1.60      DST   6.80     -         0.0         0     213747     38124
LAS CHARCAS                  C/C 002                         0.80      DST   5.80     -         0.0         0     108873     14062
C/C 002                      PUERTO VIEJO                   11.90      DST   6.10    GRAV       1.0         0    1589746    209177         3
AV.LADERA ARROYO HONDO       A/C (LA ISABELA)                6.90      DST   6.60    GRAV       0.8         0     908426    119629
C/C 003 (C/BAYAHIBE)         ACC. PLAYA DOMINICUS            7.36     DST   6.30    SOIL        1.0         0     981901    129197
Total Length =                                  313.18                   Total Costs 1993 =         41836886   6504895
* At an wthange rate of USS31RDS7.60



- 110 -
THIN OVERLAYS FOR THE TECHNOLOGY TRANSfER PROGRAMe
(CIVIL WORKS)
Exist.                                                    Base Cost
Road Section               Length  Width   Surf         ACT           Proposed                      RDS    USS
(km.)  (Mts)  Type         (v/d)        Improvement                     (mill Ion)
La Lulsa-EI Sosque           6.7    6.10    DST         676    AC    Overlay,       40  an         2.4      0.31
La o,mba-Ouanums             8.6    6.10    OST         640    AC    Overlay,       40   m         1.1       0.16
C/C Palm.r Ocoo-Colderas     4.7    7.S0    AC        1,607    AC      Overlay,     40   mm        1.7       0.22
C/CB Ouayacanes-Hldalgos    12.0   5.00   DST           763    AC      Overlay,     40   -         2.6      0.J3
Cotul-C/C PImentel           8.1    6.80    AC        2,204    AC      Overlay,     40   mm        1.0       0.13
C/C S.P.M.-Ing. Consuelo     6.2    7.00    AC        2.697    AC    Overlay,       40   mm       2.5        0.33
S P Macorls-C/C S. P. U.     4.2    7.00   Ac         9,597     AC     Overlay,     40   -         1.7       0.22
Z. Franca-C/C Pslesr Ocoe    7.8    7.60   Ac         1,607    AC      Overlay,     40   m        2.7       0.85
C/C Pimental-Fantino        17.6   6.80    AC         2.204    AC    Overlay,       40  mm         5.2       0.69
Fantino-Rincon              10.6    6.80    AC        2,204    AC      Overlay,     40   mm        8.1      0.41
Quanuma-La Lulsa             6.5    6.10    DST         528    AC      Overlay,    40   -m         1.8       0.24
Los Hidalgos-La Isabela     10.7    7.50   DST          718    AC    Overlay,    40   -            2.9       0.a8
C/C San Jose Ocoa-Azua      81.8    7.20    AC        2,031    AC    Overlay,       40   -        10.5       1.89
Bayahlbe-S.R. Yuma          15.9    6.80   AC         1.769    AC      Overlay,    40   mm         4.6       0.61
Total length    142.4                                                                 43.6        5.76
a At an exchange rate of USS1=RD87.60



- 111 &
ANEX6
SEALIN  AND $RACE I               FOR THE tECHNOLOGY  FR    PRORAM (1994
Road Section                             Length     Surface      sheouldir      ADT
Origin                             End                         (km)   ryp.  WMith Type Width- veh/dls
SAL, SANTO DOMINGO                 C/C 502 (ACC,MANOGUAYABO)         1.06    CA      7.00  OTSA   2.5    21690
C/C 602 (ACC,MANOGUAYADO)          ACC, AV, MONUMENTAL               1.84    CA      7.00  DTSA   2.5    21590
ACC, AV, MONUMENTAL                LOS ALCARRIZOS                    8.64    CA      7.00  DTSA   2.5    21690
LOS ALCARRIZOS                     PEDRO BRAN (KM 26)               12.62    CA      7.00   CA     2.6    11820
PEDRO ORAN (KM 29)                 ENT. VILLA ALTAGRACIA            13.41    CA      7.80  DISA   2.6    10500
SAL, VILLA ALTAGRACIA              PINO HERRADO                     14.03    CA     7.80   DTSA   2.6    9600
PINO HERRADO                       PIEDRA BLANCA                    10.66    CA      7.30   DTSA   2.5    10560
PIEDRA BLANCA                      ACC, fALLONBRIDGE                 9.81    CA      7.80   DTSA   2.6   10630
C/C 211 (ACC, MOCA)                ENT, SANTIAGO                    15.37    CA      7.00  DTSA  0.0    12080
SAL, MATAS FARFAN                  C/C 045 (MATAYAYAS)               6.74    DTSA   6.50   NAT    1.5       490
C/C 045 (MATAYAYAS)                ENT, ELIAS PINA                  13.08    DTSA  8.60   NAT    1.5        380
ACC, BOCA CHICA                    C/C 811 (ROTONDA B.CHICA)         1.27    DTSA   7.00   DISA   2.6    4580
C/C 811 (ROTONDA B.CHICA)          ENT, GUAYACANES                  15.47    CA     7.40  DTSA   2.0       6200
ENT, CUAYACANES                    ENT, JUAN DOLIO                   4.34    CA      7.40  DTSA   2.0      6190
ENT, JUAN DOLIO                    ENT, SAN PEDRO MACORIS           12.683   CA      7.40  DTSA   2.0    8190
SAL, SANTO DOMINGO                 ENT, SAN ISIDRO                   6.27    CA     7.00   DTSA   2.6      3260
ENT, SAN ISIDRO                    SAL, SAN ISIORO                   2.69    CA    10.00  DTSA   0.0       8120
PUENTE RIO HIGANO                  C/A SAN PEDRO MACORIS             3.70    CA      7.00  DTSA   1.0         0
SAL, PUERTO PLATA                  C/C 026 (GRAN PARADA)             9.20    CA      7.00  DTSA   1.6    6640
C/C 026 (GRAN PARADA)              ENT, AEROPUERTC                   8.90    CA     6.60  DTSA   1.6    6450
ENT, AEROPUERTO                    SOSUA                             7.40    CA      6.50  DTSA   1.0    6420
C/C 803 (C/LA GINA)                C/C 806 (GUANUMA)                 6.22    DTSA   5.02   DTSA   0.9       100
SAL, SAN FCO, MACORIS              C/C 209 (C/LA GUIZA)              3.39    CA     6.70  DTSA   1.1    3240
C/C 209 (C/LA GUIZA)               ACC, PIMENTEL                    15.76    CA     7.00  DTSA   1.6       3240
C/C 213 9C/MAGUEY                  ENT, CAYETANO CERMOSEN            3.33    OTSA   6.00   INE    2.0         0
C/C 002                            VALDESIA                         17.40    DTSA   7.60   MEJ    1.0         0
C/C 002 (LOS JOBILLOS)             PUERTO VIEJO                     12.18    CA     6.80   DTSA   1.3         0
SAL, INC QUISQUEYA                 C/C 807 (BATEY 8)                10.20    DTSA   6.00   MED    0.0         0
Total Length =                                         242.46



112 -
ANNUX 7
Page 1 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for SEOPC
in Road Maintenance Management
Obiectives
1.         The objective of this technical assistance will be *o develop a
comprehensive national road maJntenance program along lines pL .osed by DGM
and SEOPC.
Background
2.       From 1976 to 1979, Loan 1316-DO provided funds for the design of a
maintenance management system. From 1980 to 1982, under Loan 1709-DO, a
new technical assistince by consultants simplified and adapted the system
to the specific needs of the country. Standards for routine maintenance
works were developed and engineers, foremen and workers were trained as
needed. The system was never implemented. The planning criteria proposed
in the system have been used as starting point for preparing the
maintenance programs included in the on-going road project supported by
the World Bank. However, the system should be updated and implemented on a
consistent basis in the central office and in the districts.
Scope of the Assistance
3.       The principal tasks to be performed by this technical assistance
are the following:
(a) Reviewing, updating and adapting the existing system or
proposing an alternative system;
(b) revising the available data and collecting the inputs
required to implement the system;
(c) implementing a maintenance management system;
(d) implementing an equipment management system;
(e) implementing a computerized analysis of the systems;
(f) applying cost accounting to road maintenance;
(g) preparing a three-year national maintenance program and its
budget (1994-1996) using the implemented systems;
(h) formulating a program (l194-96) for maintenance by contract;
and,
(i) personnel training.
4.       The first task will consist of reviewing the adaptability of
existing maintenance management systems (the present DGM system and those
of other road institutions in Latin America) to the conditions in the
Dominican Republic. After this analysis, the consultant will propose to



ANNEX 7
- 113 -                  Page 2 of 4
SEOPC the system to be implemented. Upon SEOPC approval of the proposal,
the consultant will set up the selected system. In this phase the
consultant will determine maintenance activities, quantity of works,
maintenance levels, performance standards and the unit costs to be used in
the system.
5.       The second task will include the programs for collecting road
roughness data (using the Mays Road Meter) and deflections (with the
Falling Weight Deflectometer). This task will also include identification,
evaluation and selection of sources of appropriate materials for road
maintenance, including the analysis of problems concerning development of
borrow pits and transportation of materials.
6.       The third task, (implementation of the maintenance management
system) will be strengthening DGM's technical and administrative
capabilities, setting up the procedures for planning, budgeting and
monitoring highway maintenance programs. The system will be implemented at
the central level and in the districts, considering routine and periodic
maintenance and minor improvements. The system will allow to organize the
districts and Oayudantias* to carry out the road maintenance programs.
These maintenance programs will be prepared starting with the needs of the
layudantias* and then, obtaining the program of the districts as a sum of
the programs of the Oayudantias', and the national program as a sum of the
programs of the districts. The implementation of the system at the
district level will allow the districts to prepare and monitor its monthly
road maintenance programs.
7.       The fourth task will be to study and imolement an equipment
management system. First, the consultant will collect and analyze the data
on the availability and use of SEOPC's equipment fleet. He will also: i)
analyze the outputs and operating cost of DGM's equipment and will update
the existing equipment inventory; ii) evaluate current DGM's programs &nd
policies on equipment management, preventive maintenance levels and DGW's
workshops management; iii) analyze the procedures in equipment control
including forms and reports currently used; iv) evaluate the procedures
used to obtain equipment operating and maintenance costs;   v) analyze and
evaluate the control procedures for spare parts including stocks and
inventories; and, vi) recommend the policies and procedures to be followed
in the future.
8.       The fifth task will be the implementation of computerized analysis
of the management systems. The consultant will prepare and implement:
i) computerized programs for planning, budgeting and monitoring the road
and equipment maintenance programs; and, ii) analysis and assessment of
maintenance policies using mathematical models for short, medium and long
term.
9.       The sixth task will be the application of cost accounting to road
maintenance. The main objective of this task is setting up a cost
accountability system to support the maintenance and equipment management
system and introducing reliable procedures to monitor SEOPC's payments and
expenditures according to work progress.



ANNEX 7
- 114 -                  Page S of 4
10.      The seventh task will be the preparation of a detailed national
maintenance program and its budget for the period 1994-1996. This program
will be prepared based on the previously implemented maintenance, equipment
and computer systems. It will be initiated in the last pbase of the
technical assistance and include assistance to SEOPC by the consultant in
implementing the program and preparing the appropriate documents for
government approval.
11.      The eighth task will be the formulation of a program to carry out
maintenance by contract in the period 1994-1996. The consultants, will
select the works to be contracted starting from the maintenance program for
this period and will prepare bidding documents for the procurement of
contractor services. They will also group the works in lots whose size
will be attractive to local contractors, in function of their equipment and
working capital.
12.      The ninth task will be personnel training.  The consultant will:
i) assess the SEOPC's current policies and minimum needs in training
specialists; ii) assess and update the personnel directly involved in
maintenance activities, in the central office, in the districts and in the
"ayudantias', by category; iii) prepare and carry out a training plan for
technical and administrative personnel involved in maintenance planning,
execution and control; iv) set up a system of evaluation and control of the
training programs; and, v) prepare a study of DGH's personnel needs at the
central office and in the districts for the period 1994-96, based on the
maintenance programs for this period.
Staffing
13.      The technical assistance will be provided by the following
specialists:
i)   A highway engineer, with experience in maintenance and
equipment management systems, maintenance by contract and
maintenance planning and budgeting, who will be the program
leader and coordinator. (24 months)
ii) An equipment specialist, with experience in equipment
management systems. (18 months)
iii) A computer system analyst. (12 months)
iv) An specialist in maintenance cost accounting. (9 months)
v)   A personnel training specialist. (12 months)
14.      It is envisaged that this technical assistance will be carried out
over a period of two years and will require a total of 75 man-months. All
staff must be fluent in Spanish.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
15.      DGM will be the technical assistance executing agency.  The
counterpart staff will be selected by SEOPC from DGH permanent staff at the
central office and at the districts.



ANNEX 7
- 115 -                  Page 4 of 4
Schedule and Reports
16.      By the first month, the consultants will submit an initial
program with the activities to be carried out in the time period
established by the contract (24 months). This program will consist of, but
not necessarily be limited to, the followings
i)   analysis and evaluation of the existing situation;
ii) implementation of the technical assistance in accordance with
the initial program approved by DGM;
iii) monitoring of the maintenance programs for 1992-93 and
preparation of the maintenance programs and budgets for
1994-96; and,
iv) monitoring of the systems implemented.
17.      In addition to the initial program, the consultant will submit
quarterly reports to the DGM Director General, during the period in which
services are rendered, and a final repor; by the end of the contract, which
already include SEOPC's comments and suggestions.



- 116 -
Annex 8
Page lof 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFEIENCE FOR A STUDY OF THE CONSTRUCTION IDUSTRY
1. Objectives
The objective of this study is to identify the main constraints
and o1stacles preventing the domestic construction industry of the
Dominican Republic from assuming a more effective role in the country's
construction and maintenance programs and to develop appropriate detailed
plans of action to overcome those constraints.
The work process should be to undertake a brief but balanced and
careful overview, and then to focus on the main issues on which action is
needed. Most of the effort of the study will, thus, be devoted to
identifying and considering alternative, viable solutions to the problems
and to working up action plans for their implementation.
To ensure full commitment of the government and of the industry to
the execution of the strategy and action plans, they should be developed in
close collaboration with the Secretariat of Public Works (SEOPC), acting
liaison agency for the study team, and with the construction industry's
representatives and professional associations.
2. Scope of the Study
The study of the construction industry in the Dominican Republic,
and the formulation of a strategy and action plans will be based on a
careful consideration of the following subjects:
2.1  Structure of the Industry
(a)   Historical development of the industry including emergence of
entrepreneurs and ownership characteristics of construction
enterprises.
(b)   Participation of the industry in the economy of the country
'ncluding contribution to employment, backward and forward
linkages, particularly with the construction materials
industry, and comparison with developed countries and with
countries at a similar stage of development.



- 117.-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
(c)   Participation of the main sectors of the industry in the
satisfaction of the overall demand for construction and
maintenance services; historical participation, and future
trends.
(d)   Experience with joint ventures and domestic sub-contractors
of foreign firms.
2.2  Demand
(a)   Overall demand:  historical series, fluctuation of annual
growth rates relative to the manufacturing industry and GDP,
and identification of trends.
(b)   Forecast future demand, identifying, in particular:
(i)   Recurring demand for construction and maintenance
services which can potentially be supplied by the
domestic private sector;
(i)   Recurring demand for construction and maintenance
services which would preferably be catered for by force
account operations; and
(iii)  Demand for larger construction works which can be
handled by domestic enterprises, either by slicing and
packaging or by providing those enterprises with
technical and financial assistance.
2.3  Procurement and Contract Administration
(a)   Procedures for procurement in the public and private sectors;
regulations for bidding and negotiating construction and
maintenance work; existence and adequacy of contractor's
registry; time consumed and difficulties encountered in the
post-bid process, up to the start of work.
(b)   contract forms and contracting practice; fairness of contract
provisions, particularly in the apportionment of risk between
owner and contractor; compensation to the contractor for
default by the owner (for example interest payable for late
progress payments, or compensation for delays induced by the
owner); adequacy of provisions for price escalation and
settlement of disputes; existence of indices or data sources
for applying escalation provisions.



- 118 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
(c)   Policy and legal framework for contracting with public sector
construction organizations.
(d)   Adequacy of owner's establishment to manage contracts and
supervise construction; autonomy of government supervisors;
adequacy of consultants employed for supervision;
restrictions which may inhibit the engagement of competent
supervisors.
(el  Adequacy of the engineering process to the level of
development of the domestic construction industry.
(f)   Anomalies and difficulties observed in the process of
procurement, management, and completion of construction
contracts.
2.4 Choice of Technology
(a)   Potential for the employment of alternative technologies in
construction.
(b)   pricing distortions which may influence choice against
locally available, traditional construction materials.
2.5  The Industry
(a)   Level of development of civil construction sectors, according
to specified indicators of complexity and volume of the
operations the domestic enterprises can handle.
(b)   Ownership and organization of construction enterprises state
and private, and problems and constraints of each, in
particular efficiency of each type of organization.
(c)   Entrepreneurs and managers:  their status in society;
potential supply of entrepreneurs and managers; traditional
attitudes; willingness of leaders to learn modern management
techniques; facilities available for coaching entrepreneurs
and managers; salary levels.
(d)   Supply of engineers, architects, estimators, surveyors,
accountants, senior clerks, foremen, and other middle-level
managers; traditional sources, adequacy of supply, and
training facilities available; salary levels.



- 3119 -
Annex 
Page 4 of 6
(e)   Supply of equipment operators and mechanics; adequacy of
supply and training facilities available; proficiency levels
relative to the quality of finished work; wage levels.
(f)   Adequacy of salary and wage regimes for state and private
construction enterprises; problems arising from these
regimes.
(g)   Labor productivity and feasible incentives.
(h)   Equipment resources:  restrictions for the importation and
ownership of construction equipment; standardization;
availability of spare parts and servicing facilities;
restrictions on the importation of spare parts; availability
of excess equipment in government fleets which could be sold
or hired out to contracting enterprises; prices of
consumables.
(i)   Availability of materials:  shortages which affect
construction; alternatives available; means of marketing and
distribution, accessibility of self-help builders; prices of
domestic and imported materials.
(j)   Technology gaps in estimating, planning, organizing and
managing construction work, cost control, and construction
technology; quality of finished work.
(k)   Research and development facilities available for the
industry; identification of needs.
2.6  Financing
(a)   Financing, bonding, guarantee and insurance requirements of
builders and civil contractors.
(b)   Perception of the industry by domestic financiers, bondsmen,
and insurers. Financial indicators wbich confirm or do not
confirm this perception.
(c)   Particular characteristics of construction risk in the
Dominican Republic.
(d)   Availability of credit for the industry from commercial
banks, DFCs, nonbanking sources, suppliers' credit. Terms
and conditions on which credit, bonds. and guarantees are
advanced to the industry. Capability of the industry to meet
those terms and conditions.



- 120 -
Annex a
Page Sof 6
(e)   Availability of suitable insurance facilitSes; other forms of
ii.surance required In contracting.
(f)   Suitability of contractual arrp-gements (advances or progress
payments) in the context of the financial resources available
to the industry. Acceptance by financiers of government
progress certificates and other contractual documents for
discounting. Terms of such discounting.
2.7 Legal
(a)   Taxation regime applicable to the construction industry.  Tax
exemptions and concessions (particularly, incentives for re-
investment), depreciation allowances. protection of industry
against foreign competition. Pricing and profit controls.
(b)   Employment regime.  Permanence of labor in construction
industry employment. Wage-fixing procedures, free
bargaining.  Social laws (health, insurance, pension, and so
forth) applicable to construction. Methods available for
settlement of disputes. History or periodicity of disputes.
(c)   Importation regime.  Duties or quotas levied on equipment,
spare parts, and materials. Treatment of domestic and
foreign companies. Restriction in the availability of
foreign currency.
(d)   Company and ownership laws applicable to the industry.
(e)   Codes and regulations affecting the industry (for instance,
licensing of contractors, determination and limitations of
responsibility, building codes, safety and fire regulations).
2.8 Institutional
(a)   Existence of a government office responsible for development
of the industry and for liaising with industry institutions.
(b)   Existence of an institution representat..ve of the industry,
capable of presenting its views to the government in matters
affecting construction and providing management information
and training services to construction enterprises.
(c)   Existence of professional associations related to the
construction activity (for engineers and architects, for
example).



- 121 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
3. Strategy and Action Plens
A comprehensive strategy for development of the industry will be
prepared, to enhance the level of development of the industry. The
strategy will propose short-, medium, and long-term objectives. These
shall take into account the state of development of the country's economy
and its likely evolution when proposing a time frame.
A small number of action plans, aimed at resolving key problems
and constraints identified in the strategy as having a high priority will
be prepared. The plans will contain schedules and programs for their
implementation, the persons or institutions responsible, the estimated
costs and likely sources of funding, and the standards by which to appraise
the results of these programs.
4. Study Team. Program
Two professionals for a total of 8 months.



ANNEX 9
- 122 -                    Page i of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SANTO DOMINGO URBAN TRANSPORT STUDY-TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. Oblectives
Objectives of the study are to:
(a) improve the accessibility, quality of service, operational
efficiency, and costs of public transport, and encourage
private sector participation;
(b) preserve transport infrastructure investments and reduce
accidents, delays and vehicle operating costs through
implementation of coordinated traffic management actions; and
(c) strengthen institutional capability, at the local as well as
national level, to provide effective policy development,
planning resource allocation, traffic system implementation
and operation, and project replicability.
II. Scope of Work
-ask A:  Subsector Analysis
The purpose of this task is to provide an overview of existing
conditions in the subsector and thereby establish a factual basis for
recommendations developed in subsequent tasks. The consultant shall use
the criteria defined in Attachment A in the development of this analysis.
Task B: Traffic Management
Prepare a program of relatively low-cost traffic management
improvement which can be implemented quickly within existing rights-of-way
to improve the flow of traffic, particularly buses, on major corridors and
at critical intersections.
B.1 - Traffic Signals - Based on the existing program of the
Municipality of Santo Domingo, and information in Task A, identify needed
improvements to existing traffic signalization including hardware and
related improvements in operations and maintenance. This will involve
approximately 120 intersections. Develop cost estimates, benefits, and
performance specifications for subsequent procurem:nt of equipment and
installation.
B.2 - Intersection Improvement - Based on data developed in the
subsector analysis and in conjunction with recommended traffic signal
improvements, prepare recommendations, at the level of preliminary
engineering design, for operational and geometric improvements at the ten
most critical intersections. Estimate cost and benefits of this program.



ANNEX 9
-123 -                      Page 2 of 4
B.3 - Si$ns and Markings - Based on the program of the
Municipality and in conjunction with the results of Tasks B.1 and B.2,
recommend a program for the improvement of signs and markings in the
metropolitan area including recommendations for installation and
maintenance.
Task C: Traffic Safety and Enforcement
The purpose of this task is to improve the enf,roement of traffic
regulations, improve accident investigation and record-keeping, and
facilitate coordination among the agencies involved.
C.1 - Accident Records Management - Develop recommendations for
improvement in accident records management, including terms of reference
for training in accident investigation and reporting procedures. Develop
recommendations for data format and storage. Propose measures for periodic
analysis and coordination among public agencies that may share
responsibility for countermeasures.
C.2 - Police Equipment and Technical Assistance - Review the
current level of traffic law enforcement and identify the need for
additional equipment such as vehicles, radios, tow trucks, etc., to improve
the level of enforcement. Develop terms of reference for technical
assistance, if necessary, to help the police improve enforcement through
training and public awareness campaigns.
Task D: Urban Road Maintenance
The purpose of this task is to develop a five-year maintenance and
rehabilitation program for the rimary urban road network; and prepare
terms of reference for development, during the project, of a Maintenance
Management System which can be used by the responsible agency to plan and
carry out a cost-effective maintenance and rehabilitation plan for the
entire roadway system.
D.1 - Physical Inventory of Primary System - Based on data
develeped in Task A, conduct a field survey for the existing primary
network. For each section of road identifys
-    general geometric and physical characteristics such as
length, pavement width, type of pavement surface, and year of
application (if known);
-    presence and average height of curbs;
-    presence and type of construction of sidewalks;
-    type of drainage facilities.
D.2 - Condition Analysis - By visual inspection, note pavement
condition and specific types of failures, estimate pavement roughness in
cm/km, and make an approximate assessment of the adequacy of base, subbase,
and drainage facilities.



ANNEX 9,
- 124-                     Page 3 of 4
D.3 - Recommended Work Protram - Using data developed In Tasks A,
D.1 and D.2 develop a five-year program for routine and periodic
maintenance, and roadway rehabilitation, for the primary network. Evaluate
the economic benefits of such program.
Task E: Public Transport
The purpose of this task is to develop demand projections and
recommend policy actions to increase efficiency and level of supply of
existing passenger services.
E.1 - Demand Proiection and Required SupylY - Based on the data
collected in task A, project future (ten-year horizon) urban passonger
flows along major routes. Calculate likely requirement for vehicles for
this demand level.
E.2 - Role of Private Sector - Recommend Government actions
required to assist the private sector in providing urban passengers with
the required services. The areas covered here should include import
policies, taxations, level and structure of fares, assignment of routes and
frequencies and licensing policies. Particular attention should be given
to defining the role of non-bus passenger transport.
E.3 - Public Sector Bus Company - define the role of the public
bus company (ONATRATE) and recommend means to restore its financial
viability.
Task F: Institutional Development
The purpose of this task is to examine the existing structure for
managing the urban transport system.
P.1 - Organization - Based on the information gathered in the
above tasks, prepare recommendations for necessary improvement to the
institutional framework for urban transport, including specific
recommendations in the following areas:
-    division of responsibility among agencies (both functional
and geographical);
-    changes in existing statutes, regulations and policies;
-    for each affected agency, the internal structure necessary to
achieve its mission;
-    provisions for necessary interagency linkages and
coordination in preparation of programs and budgets, physical
planning, scheduling, execution and supervision;
F.2 - Human Resources Development - Based on the institutional
reforms and work programs recommended in the above tasks, propose a
parallel program of human resource development for each affected agency,
including the number, types ard qualifications of additional personnel in
each job category. Provide job descriptions for new or redesigned
positions.



ANNEX 9
- 125 -                    Page 4 of 4
III. Time and Reporting Schedule
The consultant shall begin work within 30 days of the contract
becoming effective. The consultant shall prepare and submit to the
government the following reports, in Spanish, within the time peliods
indicated.
(a) Quarterly progress reports giving a summary of the work
performed during the reporting period, and outline of the
work scheduled for the next reporting period, and indicating
the percentage of completion of the work under each major
task and subtask in the Terms of Reference.
(b) A draft final report summarizing all work performed during
the study and the findings and recommendations of the
consultants, within nine (9) months of the starting date.
(c) A final report incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate
by the consultants after comments on the draft final report
by the Government and the Bank, within 30 days after receipt
of all comments.
The draft final and final report shall contain a concise first
chapter summarizing all major findings and recommendations of the
consultants. The calculations of costs and benefits and all economic
analysis which support the consultants' conclusions shall be made available
in sufficient detail to permit checking of all calculations without
supplementary data.
IV. Level of Effort
It is anticipated that the herein described tachnical assistance
will require approximately twenty four (24) man-months of professional
level staff and fourteen (14) man-months of technical level staff.
Consultants should regard this only as indicative and are free to propose
whatever staffing they consider appropriate.



Attachment
-126-                       Page I of 4
URBAN TRANSPORT ANALYSIS
Traffic Management
1.       Network Characteristics:  from existing data, prepare plans for
the metropolitan area showing:
(M)    the present road network classified by traffic function,
e.g., primary routes, secondary or distributor routes,
access routes, etc.;
(ii)   the present road network classified by road condition,
e.g., paved, unpaved, good condition, poor condition, and
bad condition;
(iii)  the present road network classified by indicative road
capacity, i.e. 2 lane, 4 lane divided, etc.
(iv)   distribution of intersections classified by
physical/traffic characteristics, e.g., at grade non-
signalized, at grade signalized; and
(v)    proposed additions or modifications to the existing road
network (including intersections, traffic signal systems,
street lighting, drainage, etc.) classified according to
status e.g. under study, study completed but without
financing, study completed with financing guaranteed, under
construction, etc. Where possible include Indicative cost
estimates and summaries of purpose for proposed
improvements (time horizons: next five year, next ten
years).
2.       Traffic Flow Characteristics:  from existing data, supplemented
where appropriate by limited surveys, prepare plans showing:
(i)    peak hour flows on the primary road network and at critical
intersections, and, where appropriate, those sections of
the secondary network with importanticritical flows;
indicate, using volume/capacity ratios, sections under
capacity, at-capacity, over-capacity;
(ii)   traffic speeds, peak hour, off peak, average during day
(primary network);
(iii)  journey times along principal links of primary road necwork
(if possible prepare isochrones from central area);
(iv)   peak hour delays (average) by location (intersection or
road section) on primary road network; where possible
indicate extent of delay (in minutes);
3.       Vehicle Operating Cost Data:  from existing data, supplemented
where necessary by limited surveys, prepare tables showing:



Attachment
- 127 -                    Page 2 of 4
(i)    basic unit cost data for gasoline (liter), oil (liter)
diesel (liter), spare parts (average per vehicle per
year/kilometers per year), tyres, etc. including a
breakdown of unit prices by financial cost, economic cost
and foreign exchange component.
(ii)   vehicle operating costs by vehicle type (private car, large
truck, microbus, bus, motorcycle); either by variation in
speed (if possible) e.g. 0 km/h (idling), to 10 km/h, 20
km/h, 40km/h, 60 km/h, 80 km/h, or by benchmark speed of
say 40 km/h; and by road condition (if possible roughness
factor cm/km). Note: vehicle operating costs would
include inter alia gasoline or diesel, oil, maintenance
(including labor, spare parts, tyres, etc.) and
depreciation and in the case of commercial vehicles (taxis,
trucks, buses) the wages of drivers, conductors, etc.;
4.       Provide information regarding the number of registered vehicles
and the growth rate.
Public Transport
5.       Route Structure:  from existing data, prepare plans showing:
(i)    the present bus 1  route network including bus terminals
and principal bus stop locations;
(ii)   present bus lines classified by "empresa", service offered,
frequency (peak, off peak), capacity (passenger seating
capacity) and loadings (passengers carried);
(iii)  areas more than 500 metres, and more than 1000 metres from
a bus route;
(iv)   sections of bus routes which suffer from delays because of
traffic congestion, poorly-designed intersections, bad road
condition, etc.; indicated average bus speeds for each
route section.
6.       Bus Fleet Characteristics:  from existing data prepare information
concerning the bus fleet including inter alia the composition, size, age,
capacity, availability, and ownership profiles of the fleet in the metro
area.
7.       Bus Ownership characteristics:  from existing data prepare
information concerning the "empresas" which operate buses in the metro area
including inter alia the number of empresas, the number or buses per
empresa, the staff per empresa and the ratio of staff per bus per
"empresa"; where possible, provide profiles of typical "empresas"
concerning their financial operations (costs of services, revenues from
fares and subsidies, borrowing capacity, etc.) and operating performance
(bus maintenance, out-shedding (proportion of their bus fleet which is
1/ Note: "bus" would also include other vehicles used for passenger
transport including taxis ("conchos") and three-wheel motorcycles.



Attachment
- 128 -                    Page 3 of 4
available for service and actually in service on an average day/week).
8.       Fare Structure:  from existing data prepare information concerning
fare structures including estimates of total receipts from fares, (per day,
or per week, or per month or per year) compared with total operating costs.
9.       Public Transport Proposals:  prepare information concerning
existing proposals for changes to the public transport system (changes to
the route structure, fares, fleet composition, size, age, capacity) and
proposed major investments in the public transport sector (bus terminals,
new systems of transport, etc.) with indications as to probability of
impler..entation (under consideration, under construction, financing being
negotiated, etc.) and estimates of likely costs.
Road Maintenance
10.      Road Mainterance Program:  from existing data prepare information
concerning current road maintenance programs in the urban area including
routine and preventive maintenance of road pavements, sidewalks, drains,
traffic control equipment (traffic signals, road signs, etc.).
11.      Road Maintenance Equipment:  prepare information concerning the
composition, age, size and capacity of road maintenance equipment
(including equipment for the maintenance of traffic control equipment, lane
markings and street lights).
12       maintenance Procedures, Staffing and Costs:  prepare information
concerning the procedures used for undertaking routine and preventive
maintenance programs (contracting to private firms, force account, etc.)
and indicate the costs of these programs in terms of staff, equipment and
materials, where agencies responsible for maintenance use their own staff,
indicate numbers and qualification of staff involved including their
employment status (permanent employees, contracted staff, etc.). How much
is budgeted for routine maintenance, how much for periodic, and how much
for rehabilitation.
Road Safety
13.      Accident Characteristics:  from existing data, prepare profiles of
accident characteristics in the metropolitan area if possible, showing
accidents by location, frequency and severity.
14.      Road Safety Programs:  describe current and proposed road safety
programs designed to avoid accidents. If possible, distinguish between
general educational programs, police enforcement programs and programs
concerning modifications to the road network and/or traffic control.
Institutional Development
15.      Agencies Responsible for Urban Transport Management:  describe the
agencies responsible for the following aspects of urban transport
management in the metropolitan area:



Attachment
- 129 -                    Page 4 of 4
(i)    traffic management and control (planning, design,
execution, supervision, monitoring and control of
improvements or changes to the road network, intersectiors,
traffic control devices, etc.);
(ii)   public transport facilities, services and o-erations
including improvements or changes in infrastructure (bus
lanes, etc.); route structure, frequencies of service,
levels of service, fare structure, distribution of bus
lines by "empresa"; changes in the number, size composition
and type of "empresas" providing bus services; licensing of
bus vehicles and bus operations;
(iii) the control, supervision and monitoring of public transport
operation and services and traffic flow and vehicles
(inspection, licensing, etc.);
(iv)   road maintenance programs including the collections of
accident data and the introduction of road safety measures
and programs.
16.      Azencies Responsible for the Allocation of Financial Resources for
Urban Transport Operation and Investment: describe the agencies
responsible for the financing of the urban transport sector including,
where possible, estimates of actual and budget expenditures for the recent
years available; describe the flow of funds to executing agencies and the
procedures adopted for the allocation of resources to the sector in general
and to the separate component parts of the urban transport system
(specifically traffic management and control, public transport, road
maintenance, road safety and administration).
17.      Agencies Responsible for Collecting Revenues Generate within the
Urban Transport Sector: specifically, the nature, extent and sources of
such revenues including the procedures for collection and subsequent
distribution to the relevant agencies.
18.      Manpower Resources in the Administration of the Urban Transport
Sector: describe, by agency, the number, qualifications and
responsibilities of staff involved in the management, design, operation,
control and monitoring of the component parts of the urban transport
system; where possible, provide organigrams of each agency indicating the
levels of responsibility, inter-relationships and procedures used.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT OF PUBUC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
Organizatlon Chart
...............................
General tJsdorof 
Exto"~~~ieto SW
Anntraliond    rud.
PidIo RolmUona ~ ~     ~      ~       id m  AaM
Exbmal aid                                                           I 
Adibn~~~~~~~~~~~~4mtso l    l l l                                   l 
Goneral                      Gon~mrserl                                                                             GnenGnea
Sub  crtayofat  fGf                                                                       kcoaeo            kcoaso
DlreItorat of                                I                I    oftorateo ao  =
Highways         mabonance         Supvrision of                                                  L                             X  T       Iha       and
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auos |   D=:aG  EF
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~.. .....
Soil and Materials                                         Aqphak                                  HyadrauIls         wo      tiArpt
SdlaborMatsts Pods and Wharts   Asphal Pavement    Adinti                 Bridges                 WOrks| Dparent                     Tda
te_we72W



IBRD 22366
USA
MONTE                               pogr6,  so|  
CRISTI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S8Pepial         SoSaLa.
socd                      vi-,, l cna Hi\                               eknhlXric5xr    5r*t                                                                        u   ,1 $Jt
SO]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
ROD_RIGUUl                        e     n     d          2r>o                                                                                                (n  VtNEI FtA
h GA ~~fl~)t Cot'Ajfl
SANFRANCIC  O          NAGUA                                                          *
NilP5<nica                                                                                                                                              4 1d hincn  W .y
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS X _ ta                                                                                                                                           d .
ot ,tcoRs            ~             Terer~ecs                           G. dAoThpkwn8 di&t OG.          I
To PedA, Pnnce ~     Ro imioCI                                  V(  
Cruz                                                                                       Sobciriti de~~~~~sSfln
i                         N JUE                                                         DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PEDERNALEE     LMraisojpZFIFTH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
To PAv                   LAEnn                                                 PROJECT:U:
Ccbc Rojo        \        /                                                            -14- s                                                     LBOLRosIlfE RA  *   AIRPORTS
.Orieco _,~~~~~~~~~~~41) REG.                                   IONAL. ROALDS          PORTS
K7    <3F  LOCAL Ra4DS0    PRCiVNCE CAPITALS
0      2o       40      o0      eo      iao                                          @   NATIONALCAPITAL
I  .      t       ~ ~~ ~~I I       I
- * -  ---   -                                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTIERNA:llONAL BOUNDARIESi
~~~LOMEralSCRSTM                        AN
MZARCH 1991



