Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3350 DO
        (Fifth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
                              between
                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 2, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3350 DO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1992, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "DGM" means the Borrower's General Director of Road
Maintenance within SEOPC, as defined hereinafter;
      (b)   "Eligible Investments" means the investments for the
period 1992-1994, included in the Borrower's Highway Investment
Program ("Programa de Rehabilitacion de Carreteras 1992-1996") and
approved by the Bank on May 16, 1991 for financing under the
Project;
      (c)   "pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "SEOPC" means the Borrower's Secretariat of Public Works
and Communications;
      (e)   "Highway Investment Program" means the Borrower's
Highway Rehabilitation Program for the years 1992-1996, as updated
from time to time;
      (f)   "Highway Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's
Highway Maintenance Program for the years 1992-1996 ("Plan de
Mantenimiento de Carreteras 1992-1996"), as updated from time to
time;
      (g)   "Cost of Road Maintenance" means the amount included in
the Highway Maintenance Program for each calendar year;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
      (i)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de la Republica
Dominicana, the Borrower's Central Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy-nine million dollars ($79,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open, maintain and operate in dollars a special deposit account in
the Central Bank on terms and conditions and in accordance with
procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Page  4
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
SEOPC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, economic, environmental and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual
budget, and make available promptly as needed, in pesos equivalent,
as counterpart funds for the Project, the following minimum amounts:
(A) for fiscal year 1992, $10,500,000; (B) for fiscal year 1993,
$10,700,000; and (C) for fiscal year 1994, $10,800,000; and (ii)
provide DGM, promptly as needed, the funds required to carry out the
Highway Maintenance Program.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   at all times cause its: (i) public roads network to be
maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate practices; and (ii) road maintenance
equipment to be maintained and all necessary repairs, renewals and
replacements thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; and
      (b)   make available, promptly as needed, all funds facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the above purposes.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i)
any additions or modifications to its Highway Investment Program;
and (ii) by not later than September 30 of each year, the updating
of the investments of its Highway Investment Program.
     (b)   The Borrower may only modify the existing list of
Eligible Investments, as approved by the Bank, after obtaining the
Bank's consent to any such modification.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through SEOPC: (a) implement
Part B of the Project in accordance with the Highway Maintenance
Program approved by the Bank; (b) by September 30 of each year
furnish to the Bank, a budget proposal for maintenance, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the following year; and (c) by March 31 of each
year inform the Bank the actual budget, by category of expenditures,
spent for maintenance in the preceding fiscal year.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain diesel and
gasoline prices sold in its territory at a level sufficient to cover
at least the c.i.f. (cost, insurance and freight) - Santo Domingo;
and
      (b)   The Borrower shall take all actions as shall be required
Page  5
to ensure that costs of road maintenance are borne by road users.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
approval all bidding documents for works in respect of which the
final engineering designs related to such contract result in a cost
estimated to exceed by 25% in dollar terms the cost in dollar terms
of the respective Eligible Investment.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1992, furnish to the Bank a plan on organization and administration
of personnel for DGM detailing the positions assigned to road
maintenance activities and the total costs thereof.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than five months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
                             ARTICLE V
                          Effective Date
      Section 5.01. The date September 2, 1992 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
            Palacio Nacional
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
                                          Telex:
                                            346-0011
      With copies to:
            Secretaria de Estado de Obras
              Publicas y Comunicaciones
            Avenida San Cristobal ensanche La Fe
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
            Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas
            Direccion General de Credito Publico
            Avenida Mexico No. 45
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Jose Carlos Isaias
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  7
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Eligible Invest-          36,300,000      70%
      ments under
      Part A of the
      Project and works
      supervision under
      Part F of the
      Project
(2)   Civil works               11,000,000      70% until the
      under Part B                              aggregate amounts
      of the Project                            disbursed under
                                                this Category
                                                reach the amount
                                                of $7,000,000
                                                equivalent; 60%
                                                until the aggre-
                                                gate amounts
                                                disbursed under-
                                                this Category
                                                reach the amount
                                                of $10,000,000
                                                equivalent; and
                                                50% thereafter
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)   Civil works under          2,100,000      70%
      Parts C and D of
      the Project
(4)   Equipment (except         11,100,000      100% of foreign
      Equipment Reha-                           expenditures and
      bilitation),                              90% of local
      spare parts and                           expenditures
      materials under
      Part E of the
      Project
(5)   Equipment Rehabi-          1,500,000      75%
      litation under
      Part E of the
      Project
(6)   Consultants                5,200,000      100%
Page  8
      services and
      training
(7)   Unallocated               11,800,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     79,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Equipment Rehabilitation" means the road
maintenance equipment repaired by suppliers' workshops, under
contract, within the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce vehicle
operating costs, improve access to markets and encourage tourism
development in the Dominican Republic; (b) improve the institu-
tional capacity of SEOPC to maintain the Borrower's road system;
(c) increase the availability of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) improve the quality of pavements in the Borrower's highways.
      The Project, which shall finance the first three years of the
Highway Investment Program, consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Rehabilitation
      Carrying out of Eligible Investments, including, inter alia,
about 425 kilometers of rehabilitation and new paving and about 408
kilometers of overlays of roads.
Part B:     Highway Maintenance
      Carrying out of maintenance works, including, inter alia,
routine and periodic maintenance and resealing of about 805
kilometers of roads.
Part C:     Bridge Rehabilitation
      Rehabilitation and repair of eight truss bridges, including
inter alia sand-blasting, repair and painting of the bridges
metallic structure, cleaning and repairs of the expansion bearings
and minor repairs to the abutments.
Part D:     Workshop Rehabilitation
      Reconstruction of workshops and construction of new small
workshops to carry out equipment repairs and preventive maintenance.
Part E:     Equipment Purchase and Rehabilitation
      Acquisition and utilization of selected equipment and spare
parts and rehabilitation and repair of existing road maintenance
Page  9
equipment, including road signs and markings.
Part F:     Civil Works Supervision
      Supervision of civil works carried out under Part A of the
Project.
Part G:     Technical Assistance
1.    Training to operators of equipment required for the carrying
out of Parts A and B of the Project.
2.    Technical assistance program for DGM and the construction
industry, in road pavement technology.
3.    Technical assistance to DGM to design and implement road
maintenance and equipment management systems.
4.    Inventory and reclassification of the Borrower's rural road
network.
5.    Carrying out of engineering designs for roads included in the
Project.
6.    Carrying out of an urban transport study.
7.    Carrying out of a study on the capabilities and structure of
the construction industry operating in the Borrower's territory.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1997                                   1,440,000
September 15, 1997                               1,495,000
March 15, 1998                                   1,555,000
September 15, 1998                               1,615,000
March 15, 1999                                   1,675,000
September 15, 1999                               1,740,000
March 15, 2000                                   1,810,000
September 15, 2000                               1,880,000
March 15, 2001                                   1,950,000
September 15, 2001                               2,025,000
March 15, 2002                                   2,105,000
September 15, 2002                               2,185,000
March 15, 2003                                   2,270,000
September 15, 2003                               2,360,000
March 15, 2004                                   2,450,000
September 15, 2004                               2,545,000
March 15, 2005                                   2,645,000
September 15, 2005                               2,745,000
March 15, 2006                                   2,850,000
September 15, 2006                               2,960,000
March 15, 2007                                   3,075,000
September 15, 2007                               3,195,000
March 15, 2008                                   3,320,000
September 15, 2008                               3,445,000
March 15, 2009                                   3,580,000
September 15, 2009                               3,720,000
March 15, 2010                                   3,860,000
September 15, 2010                               4,010,000
March 15, 2011                                   4,165,000
September 15, 2011                               4,330,000
_____________________________
Page  10
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines and utilizing prequalification
bidding documents approved by the Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Dominican
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works for periodic maintenance estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000 or less per contract and contracts for
Page  11
Equipment Rehabilitation as defined in Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (c)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
and works for Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,300,000 under Part E of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders, the proce-
dures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
procured pursuant to the provisions of Part A of this Schedule and
of the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for
works procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
      Action                                     Due Date
1.    SEOPC shall appoint an
      engineer and an assistant
      engineer with experience
      and qualifications
      satisfactory to the Bank in
      DGM's planning unit                        December 31, 1992
2.    SEOPC shall appoint, or
      assign, an engineer in
      charge of highway main-
      tenance in each of DGM's
      21 subdistricts with
Page  12
      experience and qualifi-
      cations satisfactory to
      the Bank                                   December 31, 1992
3.    SEOPC shall create a
      planning and control
      unit for rural roads
      within DGM with powers
      and responsibilities
      satisfactory to the Bank                   December 31, 1992
4.    SEOPC shall transfer the
      responsibility of traffic
      counts to the General
      Directorate of Planning
      and Programming and pro-
      vide qualified staff in
      adequate numbers to
      carry out such task                        December 31, 1992
      Action                                     Due Date
5.    SEOPC shall purchase, and
      put into operation, port-
      able scales for vehicle
      weight control                             December 31, 1992
6.    The Borrower shall create
      within SEOPC a super-
      intendency for workshops with
      powers and responsibilities
      satisfactory to the Bank
      and provide it with qualified
      staff in adequate numbers                  December 31, 1992
7.    SEOPC shall create an equip-
      ment management unit within
      DGM and shall provide it with
      qualified staff in adequate
      numbers                                    December 31, 1992
8.    SEOPC shall complete the
      engineering designs:
      (a)  for the roads to be
           constructed in 1993                   December 31, 1992
      (b)  for the roads to be
           constructed in 1994                   December 31, 1992
      Action                                     Due Date
9.    SEOPC shall submit
      reports to the Bank
      showing:
      (a)  an updated list of
           proposed Eligible                     March 31,
           Investments and                       June 30,
           of civil works re-                    September 30,
           quired under Part B                   and December 31
           of the Project                        of each year
      (b)  progress in implemen-
           tation of all civil
           works contracts including
           latest cost estimates
      (c)  the status of actual Loan
           disbursements against
           those forecasted
Page  13
      (d)  the amount of counter-
           part funds allocated
           to the Project in the
           fiscal year and the
           amount actually spent
      (e)  the actual road main-
           tenance budget for the
           preceding year, the
           budget allocated for
           the current year and
           physical progress of
           the maintenance plan
           for the year
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories
other than Category (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and that procedures for its
operation, satisfactory to the Bank, have been established,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
Page  14
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Categories, and in the re-
                  spective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  15
