Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15129
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1673-KE)
DECEMBER 1, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At the time of appraisal
KSh 16 = US$ 1.00
KSh 1 = US$ 0.0625
Annual average of the time of project completion (December 1994)
KSh 56 = US$ 1.00
KSh 1 = US$ 0.0178
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
Primary, Secondary and Polytechnic: January - December
Teachers Training: May - March
University: October - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AZS    - Arid Zone Primary School
CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy
CTB    - Central Tender Board
DCA    - Development Credit Agreement
EDSAC  - Education Sector Adjustment Credit
EMS    - Educational Media Service
IT      - Institute of Technology
JP      - Junior Polytechnic (formerly Village Polytechnic)
KIE     - Kenya Institute of Education
MEST   - Ministry of Education and Science and Technology (former MOE)
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOPW   - Ministry of Public Works
MOW    - Ministry of Works (former MOPW)
NTC    - National Teacher's College
PCR     - Project Completion Report
PIU     - Project Implementation Unit
PU      - Planning Unit, MOE
PTTC   - Primary Teacher Training College
SAR     - Staff Appraisal Report
SDR    - Special Drawing Rights
Standard - Grade of Primary School
TSC     - Teachers Service Commission
TTI     - Technical Training Institute
VP      - Village Polytechnic (currently JP)
YP      - Youth Polytechnic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.                                                                                              i
Project Objectives and Description ................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ................................................                     i
Summary of Future Operations, Findings and Key Lessons Learned ......... ..... iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Objectives ...............................................I
Achievement of Project Objectives ...................                       .............................2
Implementation Record  ...............................................3
Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................                     ..........................4
Civil Works and Equipment ...............................................4
Efficiency, Effectiveness and Sustaimability  ................................................ 6
Bank Performance ........8.......................................8
Bo     rrower Performance ................................................9
Assessment of Outcome ...............................................9
Completion and Future Operation: Options ...............................................    10
Key Lessons Learned    ............................................... 10
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1               Summary of Assessments
Table 2               Related Bank Credits
Table 3               Project Timetable
Table 4               Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5               Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6               Key Indicators for Project Operation Options
Table 7               Studies Included in Project
Table 8A              Project Costs
Table 8B              Project Financing
Table 8C              Project Financing (continued)
Table 9               Costs of Major Project Components
Table 10              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11              Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13              Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Appendices
Appendix A    Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C    Cofinancier Contribution (not applicable)
Appendix D    Quality of Design and Construction
Appendix 1   Costs of Construction Works (Ksh)
Appendix 2    Costs of Construction Works (US$)
Appendix 3    Comparison of Planned and Actual Floor Areas
Appendix 4    Equipment for KIE, PU and TSC
Appendix E    Map of Kenya Sixth Education Project



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 1673-KE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sixth Education Project in
Kenya, for which Cr. 1673-KE in the amount of SDR 35.0 million (US$ 37.5 million at the
prevailing exchange rate) was approved on March 27, 1986 and made effective on February 24,
1987.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1994. The original closing date was June 30,
1992. The credit was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place on May 11, 1995.
(The actual amount of disbursement increased by US$ 11.0 million to US$ 48.5 million because of
favorable exchange fluctuation between SDR and US Dollars.)
The ICR was prepared by Yang-Ro Yoon, from the Population and Human Resources
Division (Eastern Africa Department) of the Africa Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jacob van
Lutsenburg Maas (Division Chief), Surendra Agarwal (Projects Advisor) and James W. Adams
(Director). The borrower contributed to preparation of this ICR by rendering professional
assistance to the ICR mission. The borrower prepared its own ICR, the Executive Summary of
which is included as Appendix B. Borrower comments of August 11, 1995 on the draft ICR have
been incorporated into this final report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in February 1995 during the Bank's final supervision
mission and the ICR mission which took place from May 17 to June 2, 1995. The ICR mission
comprised Yang-Ro Yoon (task manager), Messrs. Nguyen X. Nguyen (economist), James
Kamunge (education specialist, Resident Mission/Nairobi), Harry  Potts (implementation
specialist/quantity surveyor, consultant) and Professor S. 0. Kwasa (economist, consultant). The
mission visited the construction sites of seven Primary Teachers Training Colleges (PTTCs) and
three Arid Zone Schools (AZSs) under this Project, and Kericho PTTC which was supported by
the Fifth Education Project. This report is based on the mission's observations from the field trip,
discussions in the field with most of the contractors, consultants for the civil works, teachers,
students, parents and local officials including education administrators, review of project
documents and correspondence in project files, and discussions with various institutions including
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), Kenya Institute of Education (KIE), Teachers Service
Commission (TSC), and Planning Unit (PU) and other departments of the Ministry of Education
(MOE).






Evaluation Summary                                                       page i of iv
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Bank has been involved in the development of education and training in Kenya since
1966. Bank projects have mainly focused on supply-side financing of education -- construction of
buildings, provision of equipment, technical assistance and training. To date the Bank has funded
seven education projects (including this project) and one Education Sectoral Adjustment Loan.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The specific project objectives were to improve the equity and quality of Kenya's education
system and to promote institutional development through strengthening the Government's capability
to effectively plan and manage educational expansion at all levels. To achieve these objectives, the
project was to: (a) construct seven new primary teacher training colleges (PTFCs); (b) construct
three new arid zone primary schools (AZSs) in remote locations; (c) provide the Kenya Institute of
Education (KIE) with equipment, specialist services and training to support the development of
educational materials delivered by the Educational Media Services (EMS); (d) assist KIE in
preparing and testing new curricular materials for secondary and technical education; (e)
strengthen the capacity of the Planning Unit (PU) of MOE and the Teachers Service Comnnission
(TSC).
3.    While the project objectives were clear and generally consistent with various aspects of the
Government's education policy in the Fifth Development Plan and with the Bank's country
assistance strategy (CAS) for Kenya, the process of developing project objectives did not
vigorously question the central assumption of the Development Plan (vocationalization of basic
education): nor did it emphasize cost-sharing by students and communities in post-primary
education or teacher training.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Overall, the project objectives were partially achieved and the general outcome was not
satisfactory. The project did not sufficiently enhance quality and equity of the education system.
Cost and time control was inadequate, and quality control was seriously flawed. The AZSs and
PTTCs were over-designed, over-specified and over-supplied with furniture and equipment.
Insufficient attention was paid to sustainability or beneficiaries' needs when specifying
requirements for physical works: these have inherited problems of maintenance and sustainability.
The AZSs are under-enrolled and the facilities of both the PTTCs and the AZSs are underused.
The institutions are not sustainable: poor children's access to schooling in the arid zones remains
low because of learning-related costs such as boarding fees; and the PTTCs are not financially
sustainable with limited cost-sharing.  Taken together these points demonstrate little result-
orientation, low cost effectiveness, lack of efficiency and little relevance to the needs of students.
5.    Implementation experience The credit was extended three times by a total of 2.5
years. The AZSs had been practically completed and operational since 1992. Two PTTCs -
Garissa and Taita Taveta - are far from being fully completed; as for the other five, many other
items including water works, landscaping and playing fields have yet to be completed or be turned
over by the contractors. The project was initially expected to cost US$ 56.06 million, of which



Evaluation Summary                                                        page ii of iv
IDA was to finance US$ 37.5 million. The depreciation of US dollars against the SDR in
1992 increased the proceeds of the credit to US$ 48.5 million. Although the IDA fund had
been completely disbursed in May 1995, a further amount is needed to meet a shortfall of
about US$ 15.3 million (KES 700 million) to settle the Government's existing debt of US$
11.3 million to contractors and consultants. It will also be necessary to provide an additional
US$ 4 million to complete the civil works. Although the problem of cost-overrun had been
recognized, the PIU mistakenly informed the Bank of a US$ 3.4 million obligation: the ICR
mission later established the actual much larger over-run total.  The MOE requested the
Treasury to provide about US$ 3.4 million (KES 150 million) for FY 96 in addition to about US$
1.8 million (KES 80 million) in FY 95 budget to complete the civil works: this request was not
complied with.
6.    Major factors affecting the project The project was delayed by: (a) late payments; (b)
cumbersome official procedures; inadequate budgetary provisions and by cash liquidity shortages;
(c) external imbalances delaying counterpart funding (these imbalances are a consequence of the
1990-91 Gulf War, the deteriorating terms of trade, and the withholding of balance of payments
support to Kenya by international agencies); and (d) unusually heavy rain in Garissa which
necessitated a site change.
7.     The civil works are the major focus of escalated project costs. These were caused by: (a)
specification of larger and more elaborate buildings than in the original plan (and instances of over-
equipment); (b) reinstatement of major contracts; (c) late changes in selection of sites; and despite
this, selection of difficult sites; and (d) late payments.
8.    Bank performance  While being effective in project identification assistance, the Bank
did not perform satisfactorily in preparation, appraisal or supervision. During preparation the
Bank could have more seriously addressed the pressing policy issues and implications of pure
supply-side financing and should have thoroughly evaluated previous projects with similar
features. During the appraisal, the Bank was inconsistent in some aspects of project design:
insisting on 100% boarding at AZSs with no measures to alleviate the costs of boarding for poor
children: transferring water works to local authorities despite their weak capacity: failing to take
account of the Government's inability to provide counterpart funds; and ignoring systematic and
objective site selection process based on technical feasibility. Supervision was regularly conducted
at least twice a year but there were serious weaknesses: mismatching the expertise of staff and the
needs of different stages of supervision; making a limited number of site visits and so over-reliance
on progress reports from PIU; overlooking the cost implications of project modifications led to
delay and cost overrun; lacking insistence on project document provision.
9.    Borrower performance was not satisfactory. Preparation was effective with clearly-
defined objectives. Implementation was deficient in some significant respects; Treasury bud3etary
procedures led to delays and directly attributable costs. MOE failed to complete measures to plan,
implement and monitor the increased cost-effectiveness of education. PIU did not develop adequate
technical managerial capacity despite technical assistance, fellowship awards and training
substantially greater than originally planned: PIU did not identify and rectify fundamental flaws in
architectural design. Non-compliance of the DCA provisions for qualified technical management
prevented the day-to-day direction required by the nature of the project; PIU had no cost control
system in place and was weak in financial management. PIU did not take measures to arTest or
alleviate the cost overrun at critical stages and misinformed the Bank and the Government of the



Evaluation Summary                                                       page iii of iv
financial status of the project: and PIU allowed consistent delays in preparing and submitting audit
reports.
Summary of Future Operations, Findings and Key Lessons Learned
10.    Completion andfuture operations: options  First, the Government should complete the
remaining civil works in Garissa and Taita Taveta and prepare a financial and prioritization plan
for the completion. To this end, the Government may consider the following options: convert them
to some other purpose and get development funds for that purpose; complete them through
mobilizing the community fund (or harambee); give them to the local districts or communities to
run with the local districts or communities paying the cost of final completion, after Government
gives as much as it can; or sell them to the private sector. If the MOE decides to supervise the
remaining civil works, MOE may wish to hire a consulting architect firm instead of the PIU.
Second, the AZSs and PTTCs should make every effort to improve the efficient use of facilities
and incorporate sustainability. For AZSs, measures to finance recurrent costs through demand-
driven financing will be explored. The Government has just formalized a fee system under which
PTTC students will pay the full cost of boarding and food: further cost-recovery measures will be
considered. The Government plans to introduce loans and bursaries particularly for students from
disadvantaged areas to ensure their access to teacher training. This is encouraging but given the
poor record of university loans, special care should be taken for targeting and maintaining
repayment rate of the loans. Third, follow-up projects focusing on demand-side financing and
diversification of funding sources could do much to improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and
market relevance of the education provided.
11.   Key findings and lessons learned  First, this project shows that financing physical
facilities exclusively without accordingly equal emphasis to demand-side needs leads to lack of
efficiency and effectiveness and entails little beneficiary involvement. The effect on the project is
worsened by restricting financial and managerial autonomy. The distorted incentives structure and
lack of competition for the use of IDA funds allowed indifference to economy and effectiveness to
persist unchecked. To establish a productive incentive structure a two-pronged solution seems
indicated: (a) the demand-driven approach which may empower students and parents to make
schools more responsive to students' needs and to market demand: and (b) the diversification of
funding sources for educational institutions to help finance expansion and modernization of
physical infrastructure.
12.    Second, a feasible financing scheme is needed to provide quality education in a sustainable
manner. Cost-recovery measures should be established for post-primary education with student
loans or bursary schemes awarded through means-testing to ensure opportunities for the poor.
13.    Future education projects in Kenya should:
*  contribute to the Government's development of a coherent sector policy framework
through a congruent specified action plan during project preparation;
*  operate with a participatory approach - throughout the whole project cycle, beneficiaries
should be actively involved and consulted;
*  decentralize school management to strengthen decision-making at the local level;



Evaluation Summary                                                       page iv of iv
* properly evaluate the ability of both the Government and the direct beneficiaries to provide
counterpart funds for operation and maintenance of new institutions given prevailing
economic conditions;
*  devise mechanisms to ensure correct and timely payments to consultants, contractors and
suppliers, and install these checks as part of Bank supervision procedures;
*  establish a system to monitor implementation and evaluate performance against project
objectives;
*  develop a fully integrated reporting system to cover financial management using pre-
accepted criteria and maintaining adherence to design intent. This should embody a "fail
safe" warning system.
14.   From a Bank perspective, a lasting lesson has been the re-appearance of the familiar
problems described in this report: future projects should deploy firm, consistent measures to
prevent these chronic problems. Exclusive attention to financing the "supply-side" should be
balanced with more attention to ensuring that the "demand-side" is also adequately financed.
Moving to demand-side financing (which will reflect the wider demand-driven approach to the
project) will empower beneficiaries to express their needs and will facilitate market response to this
demand through competition. Instead of funding a few politically-selected institutions with no local
ownership, the Governent and the Bank could together create new arrangements to leverage co-
financing from domestic financial institutions to fund physical infrastructure of schools and
colleges, public and private, using land and perhaps other equity as collateral. Placing collateral
at risk ensures that the school owner has the incentive to choose the most cost-effective investments
and maintain close and constant supervision of implementation. Such an approach will structurally
and systematically prevent (or safely limit) many of the risks and consequences presented in this
Report.



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                        pare I of 11
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
1.     Over the two decades following independence, Kenya experienced dramatic quantitative
growth in school enrollment: this expansion was gained, to some degree, at the expense of
academic quality, particularly at the primary and secondary levels. To counter this trend, the
Government prepared an ambitious scheme for education policy expressed in the Fifth
Development Plan (1983/84-1987/88) and consisting of: establishment of a 8-4-4 structure;
universalization of primary schooling free of charge; orientation of education toward job creation
and employment; increased cost-sharing by communities and students at the secondary and higher
education levels; and revision of curricula towards practical subjects and preparation for
employment. Primary school and university time for students was increased by one year
respectively: the total number of years of schooling remained the same for those who completed
university education.  As a result, more primary school teachers were required. The 844
structure was already in place at the time the project was appraised.
Project Objectives
2.     The general main project objectives were first to assist the Government to increase the
effectiveness, relevance to socio-economic requirements and efficiency of the education system
within the new 8-4-4 structure. The project also aimed to adjust the system to financial constraints
m an environment of increasing social demand created by the high rate of demographic growth and
the high value placed on education by Kenyans.
3.     The specifc project objectives were to improve the equity and quality of Kenya's
education system and to promote institutional development through strengthening the Government's
capability to effectively plan and manage educational expansion at all levels. To achieve these
objectives, the project was to: (a) construct seven new primary teacher training colleges (PTTCs)
with a total capacity of 4,080 trainees: construct three 720-enrollment PTTCs and four 480-
enrollment PTTCs; (b) construct three new arid zone primary schools (AZSs) in remote locations
with a total capacity of 1,080 pupils: each with 360-enrollment; (c) provide the Kenya Institute of
Education (KIE) with equipment, specialist services and training to support the development of
educational materials delivered by the Educational Media Services (EMS); (d) assist KIE in
preparing and testing new curricular materials for secondary and technical education; (e)
strengthen the capacity of the Planning Unit (PU) of MOE and the Teachers Service Commission
(TSC).
4.     The project objectives were clear and generally consistent with the Governnent's
education policy in the Fifth Development Plan and with the Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS) for Kenya. However the process of developing project objectives did not vigorously
question the central assumption of the Development Plan (vocationalization of basic education):
nor did it ensure that sufficient attention was paid to cost-sharing by students and communities in
post-primary education or teacher training. Project components which were focused on full public
financing and public provision of education could not in themselves be instrumental to achieving
the main objectives. The project objectives did not address financing, recurrent costs and
sustainability for PTTCs and AZSs, while the civil work component predominated. That the
construction sites were scattered all over the country made implementation complex and unduly
demanding for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The civil works were implemented all at



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                        pare 2 of 11
once: phased imnplementation could have allowed more flexible and productive responses to
changing circumstances.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     Overall the project objectives were partially achieved.
Physical objectives were not fully achieved. Construction of the seven PTTCs and three
AZSs, the core part of the project, is not yet complete despite three separate credit extensions for
two and a half years (see paras. 6-10). The AZSs had been practically completed and operational
since 1992. Two PTTCs - Garissa and Taita Taveta - are far from being fully completed; as for
the other five, many other items including water works, landscaping and playing fields have yet to
be completed or be tumed over by the contractors (Table 5, Part II).
Sector policy objectives were partially achieved. The increase of trained teachers through
both pre-service and in-service training in new PTTCs has gradually replaced untrained teachers
with trained teachers. However this was not achieved in the most cost-effective way (see paras.
23-26).  The Government's teacher employment policy undermines efficient market-based
operation. The Govemment guarantees the placement of PTTC graduates once they have passed
the examination; demand for teachers is determined by the supply (existing capacity of PTTCs)
instead of by the need of primary schools. This policy, combined with the higher number of
teachers produced by the additional new PTTCs, has contributed to a large increase in primary
teachers salaries as an item of Govemment recurrent expenditure. To contain this expenditure
increase, EDSAC conditionality was applied. New AZSs have enhanced educational opportunities
in remote disadvantaged areas. However student enrollment is very low in these AZSs and does
not fully contribute to enhancing educational equity. The facilities are severely underused in both
PTTCs and AZSs, undermining efficiency (see paras. 18-19 and 23-24).
Poverty reduction objectives were partially achieved. This project's great potential to
reduce poverty through the development of human resources has not been fully realized because of
low enrollment in AZSs and under-use of facilities in both AZSs and PTTCs. The AZSs and
PTTCs have not fully served as community centers, as planned. To ensure fair distribution of
qualified teachers, the Government recruits teacher trainees on a geographically equitable basis and
generally assigns trained teachers to their districts of origin.  This policy supports poverty
reduction through providing quality education in economically deprived areas: teachers from the
same area or tribe became role models and encourage student enrollment in AZSs.
Financial objectives were not achieved.  The current education share in recurrent
expenditures is about 36 percent, far above the 30 percent cap agreed at the time of appraisal. To
limit the effect of the additional teachers trained by new PTTCs on recurrent expenditure, the
Government initially decided to recruit 30 percent of all pre-service teacher trainees at the P3 level.
But none of the new PTTCs will admit P3 level trainees from 1995: they insist on a PI level. This
will increase the share of salaries in the recurrent education expenditures. Recruitment of the P3
level was a single-issue decision intended to restrain the project's adverse impact on the recurrent
expenditure. Perhaps other options to lessen the pressure on recurrent expenditure should have
been explored.  The PTTCs lack financial sustainability because of minimal cost recovery
combined with declining Government grants (see paras. 25-26).  The study on the cost-
effectiveness of teacher education including cost recovery measures which the project demanded



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                      paee 3 of 11
was not done. Three years later, EDSAC required a study covering similar issues and this was
done (see Tables 7 and 13, Part II).
Institutional development objectives were partially achieved. The provision of equipment,
specialist services and training was intended to strengthen the planning and implementing capacity
of the PU, TSC and KIE. The issue of ensuring adequate maintenance and full use of this
equipment remains. The KIE has developed educational materials delivered through Educational
Media Service (EMS) and new curricular materials for craft training and secondary education. (see
Table 5, Part II). Judged by these results noted in sector policy and financial objectives, PU's
performance in policy-making for PTTCs remains ineffective. The achievement of public sedor
management was minimal because the PIU performed poorly in project implementation (see paras.
30-31). Private sector development objectives were not achieved, mainly because of serious
delays in payments to private contractors and consultants.
Implementation Record
6.    The credit was extended three times by a total of  2.5 years.  The Government
requested a fourth extension which the Bank did not accede to. (In fact, credit funds were
exhausted before the end of the third extension.) The civil works are only 88 percent complete
measured by payments made to date out of projected final accounts, despite an early start in
design financed under the Fifth Education Credit. The construction of PTTCs in Garissa and
Taita Taveta started late: in Garissa because exceptional rains in 1989 destroyed the
foundation, causing transfer to a new site restarting in 1990; in Taita Taveta the proposed
location was held unacceptable. Although five PTTCs and three AZSs have been practically
complete for a number of years, no final accounts have been settled and minor works remain
unfinished. The contractors for the two remaining PTTCs claim that they could finish in 4 and
7 months for Garissa and Taita Taveta respectively given sufficient cash flow. This is arguable:
the civil works of the PTTC in Kericho (undertaken under the Fifth Education Project which closed
m 1992) are not yet completed because of lack of Government funds (the kitchen equipment was
finally provided this year by the Sixth Education Project).
7.    The project was initially expected to cost US$ 56.06 million, of which IDA was to
finance US$ 37.5 million. The depreciation of US dollars against the SDR increased the
proceeds of the credit to US$ 48.5 million.  To use this windfall, playing fields and
landscaping were added to the initial civil works design: this became a direct cause of cost
overrun. Although the IDA fund had been completely disbursed in May 1995, a further
amount is needed to meet a shortfall of about US$ 15.3 million (KES 700 million) to settle the
Government's existing debt of US$ 11.3 million due to contractors and consultants. It will
also be necessary to provide an additional US$ 4 million to complete the civil works.
According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), financing the funding shortfall after
credit closing is the Government's responsibility. Although the problem of cost-overrun has been
recognized, the PIU mistakenly informed the Bank of a US$ 3.4 million overrun: the ICR
mission later established the actual much larger over-run total. At the Bank's suggestion, the
MOE has requested the Treasury to provide about US$ 3.4 rmillion (KES 150 million) for the FY
96 in addition to about US$ 1.8 million (KES 80 million) in the FY 95 budget to complete the civil
works. Lack of funds will pose a serious problem in completing the two remaining PTTCs.
8.     The project went through the following modifications. Water works, playing fields and
landscaping not in the original design of the institutions were included. While water works were in



Part I: Imnlementation Assessment                                       Dare 4 of II
fact essential, the appraisal mission relied on the Government's assurance that local authorities
provided water. However the project had to install water works at considerable cost in money and
time. Minor additional civil works and procurement amounting to US$ 0.8 million were also added
(see Table 9, Part II).
9.    Contractors and consultants were unanimous im their opinion that delays were mostly due
to late payments. These were caused occasionally by inconsistency in the payment process but
more generally by cumbersome official procedures, failure to provide adequate budgetary
provisions and by shortages of cash liquidity. Even after the establishment of the Special Account,
it usually took six months from the time the PIU received bills from contractors to the time
payments were disbursed from the Central Bank. Toward the end of the project, many contractors
and suppliers received no payments for months (in one instance for three years.)
10.   The civil works are the major focus of escalated project costs. While the SAR estimate for
civil works was US$ 25.4 million, the projected completion cost would be US$ 53.9 million (see
Tables 8A and 8B, Part I). The cost increases were caused by: (a) specification of larger and more
elaborate buildings than in the original plan (and instances of over-equipment); (b) reinstatement of
major contracts removed from the original plan; (c) late changes in selection of sites; and despite
this, selection of difficult sites; and (d) late payments causing delayed works and associated extra
costs such as for lengthened contracts, interest on late payments and extra fluctuations in material
cost.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   Factors not subject to Government control First, heavy rains forced abandonment of the
original Garissa PTTC site. Second, external imbalances delayed domestic contribution to foreign
expenditures. These imbalances were the consequence of the 1990-91 Gulf War, the deteriorating
terms of trade, and the withholding of balance of payments support to Kenya by international
agencies (the withholding was a direct consequence of the Government's failure to implement its
economic reform agenda). In combination, these factors accounted for some proportion of cost
increase and delay.
12.   Factors subject to Government control  First, the Government could have chosen sites
suitable for the purposes, so avoiding the increased costs and time for the civil works. Second, the
Government could have restrained inflation with better macroeconomic discipline: higher budget
deficits coupled with monetary expansion fueled inflation which rose from 19.6 percent in 1991, to
29.5 percent in 1992 to 45.8 percent in 1993. Inflation accounted for about 20 percent of the
increase in the price of civil works from appraisal to tender. But inflation alone is not entirely the
cause - for example, the timely provision of counterpart funds and simplified administrative
procedures could have streamlined project implementation. The Government's inconsistency
combined with the PIU's ineffective management gravely weakened project implementation (see
paras. 30-3 1).
Civil Works and Equipment
13.   Selection of location and site Politics influenced location selection (in what general area
to build) and local political pressures determined the location eventually chosen. The scope and
scale of construction changed over time from an original Government request of 9 P1TCs to 5 to 6
and eventually 7. This, too, reflected the intrusion of politics into civil works. Failure to apply



Part I: Imnlementation Assessment                                         nare 5 of 11
objective selection criteria allowed excessive distance from amenities (water, power, transport)
caused additional development cost and will cause continuing recurrent expenses. Three PTTCs
(Taita Taveta, Baringo and Tambach) are on steeply-sloping sites. This has incurred millions of
dollars in extra foundation work (particularly site-leveling for playing fields). Selection, de-
selection and re-selection of sites has incurred extra design fee costs - in only one case (Garissa)
was there an evident technical reason for the change in location. There is no evidence that the
Bank made efforts to ensure systematic and objective site selection. Some remote sites have indeed
acted as local catalysts for development but it is not clear that the benefit exceeds the costs.
14.   Design and quality of construction  Most of the buildings designed were clearly beyond
the SAR's requirement that buildings be functional, austere, appropriate and economical.
Overall, the design for AZSs was more modest than for PTTCs. The designed areas exceeded the
agreed areas by 23% (see Appendix 3). From appraisal to contract, the increase in costs averaged
86% for PTTCs and 24% for AZSs (see Appendix 1). Appendix 1 further shows the increase in
costs from contract to final account, averaging 77% for PPTCs and 43% for AZSs. These were a
major cause of cost overruns. PIU and the associated consultants were seriously remiss in failing
to arrest and correct these unacceptable cost increases.
15.   The design of buildings did not consider regional climate characteristics. For example,
only two designs were adopted for all PTTCs, regardless of climate. This led to inappropriateness
of buildings, wastage and high maintenance costs as found in Garissa, Taita Taveta and Bondo
(see Appendix D).   Beneficiaries were not adequately consulted in the planning, design or
construction of the buildings.  Although the principals were appointed and placed on the site
before the opening of the PTTC, they claim that their concerns were often ignored by contractors
who wanted to be accountable to the PIU not to the principals or beneficiaries. Awarding too
many contracts to one contractor may have had negative effects on quality of construction. Delays
would tend to be capitalized to the limit by the contractor to mask inability to properly resource all
five projects simultaneously.
16.   Furniture, equipment and vehicles    The estimated actual amount for these two
categories was over twice the total SAR estimate: US$ 13.67 million versus US$ 5.55 million.
The increase of 146% compares with the SAR contingency of 38%. This level of over-
expenditure is immediately apparent when visiting the sites. Under-used teaching rooms have
become effectively stores for unwanted or broken beds, chairs, desks, cupboards and filing
cabinets. Store rooms have become depositories for sofa sets, mattresses, blankets, bed sheets and
covers.  sports  equipment,  cookers,  refrigerators  and  library  shelving  systems.
Headmasters/mistresses of the AZSs wanted more storage space for these items. Barsaloi AZS
was provided with a 15-year reserve equipment for dormitory and 960 mattresses for 400-
enrollment capacity (the AZS has only 59 current boarders). The situation is similar everywhere.
All staff houses for PTTCs and AZSs were provided even with minor goods such as kettles, egg
beaters and pressure cookers.  Shortages are apparent only for library books and laboratory
equipment.
17.    Sustainability of equipment and fumiture has not received adequate attention. Much
equipment cannot be maintained or repaired since the technicians are available only at a
considerable distance (see Appendix D). Beneficiaries complain of having not been involved in
book, fumiture or equipment selection, nor of being informed of their allocations. This lack of local
involvement in selecting inputs undemined the ownership and relevance of the goods procured.
For example, TVs incompatible with solar lighting were provided for AZSs. Agricultural tractors



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       paee 6 of 11
and trailers supplied have no distributors with workshop and maintenance facilities available in
Kenya. Fragmented, overlapping and duplicated activities are indicated in the tendering of furiiture
and vehicles. Foi example, the first buses for PTTCs were procured and delivered a few years
ago: second buses were recently procured and are reportedly on the way to &Iivery. This appears
to be a split contract.
Efficiency, Effectiveness and Sustainability
18.   AZSs All three AZSs are severely underused. While each was built to teach and board
400 students, none is being used to full capacity. (The capacity increased from the appraised
figure of 360 and the reason is not evident.) Current enrollment is 139 (52 girls and 87 boys) in
Mokowe, 164 (97 boys and 67 girls) in Barsaloi and 227 (134 boys and 93 girls) in Konyao. The
ratio of boarding facilities is even lower since Mokowe and Barsaloi admit day students: Konyao
admits boarders only. In Mokowe there are very few day students because of local insistence on a
boarders-only policy. In Barsaloi, only 59 students are boarders, equal to 14 percent of capacity.
19.   The low enrollment occurred because of wrongly-chosen school sites and deficient school
facilities. The site of Barsaloi AZS was chosen to serve three counties as a district-center school
not as a county school. Unfortunately this location is notorious for malaria, and parents are
understandably reluctant to send their children. (The rumor that a few students had died proved
untrue on visiting the school.) After the initial enthusiasm dissipated, enrollment dropped from
over 300 to 75 students in the first year, then enrollment increased: 75 in 1993, 105 in 1994 and
139 in 1995. Mokowe AZS was chosen for the Bony tribe but there were not enough beneficiaries
even under normal conditions and this low level was further reduced after the outbreak of the
Somalia War. Konyao AZS had full enrollment at the start with the chiefs' strong support but lack
of water (caused by delayed civil works) made the school unattractive to students and parents.
20.   Other causes of low enrollment for all three AZSs were: additional costs for learning
materials and uniform, about KES 1,000 per year (in addition to tuition of KES 200-500 per year);
opportunity costs; and lack of a school lunch program. Solid buildings were already used as day
schools before this project (these are currently used as storage in Barsaloi and remain empty in
Mokowe). Although boarding can be crucial for nomadic student enrollment, as seen in Konyao, it
may have unexpected adverse effects. Because parents are reluctant to send young children to
boarding school, Mokowe offers only four classes, grade 5 to 8. This best-equipped school is
underused while other day schools are overcrowded with day students. The parents of Barsaloi
usually enroll young children as day students. For the poor, the annual boarding fees of KES 400
to 600 at Barsaloi and Konyao, and KES 3,000 at Mokowe are an insuperable deterrent.
21.   Had this project renovated and used the old Barsaloi day school building, it could have
fully financed tuition and paid the additional costs incurred for learning for all 400 students. In
fact this project could have provided free schooling for 400 students for about 100 years. It is
regrettable that this promising opportunity was not recognized.
22.   The major financial source for these AZSs is Government grants: student fees and income-
generating activities contribute a small portion. In Mokowe, where cost-sharing is highest, the
Government grant covers about two-thirds of school expenses. About 60 percent of government
grants go to salaries and boarding. Because of the general and serious shortage of funds,
maintenance is given low priority. Only KES 29,999 (about US$ 600) was allocated for
maintenance for a whole year in Mokowe AZS: this is not enough even to repair the tires of the



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                        page 7 of 11
vehicles and tractor provided under this project. Given the poor workmanship of construction and
the inappropriate design of facilities, maintenance will be troublesome in the future. (As evidence,
Kakuma AZS, built under the Fifth Education Project had to be rehabilitated by a contractor for
Konyao AZS as part of his contract.)
23.   PTTCs Enrollments in the five PTTCs are consistent with or above planned capacity:
completion rate is almost 100 percent; most students pass examinations and are placed as teachers
through the Government's employment assurance policy for teacher trainees. However, the current
policy sets a level of enrollment that exceeds the verifiable demand for newly-trained teachers. Yet
even with this arbitrarily heightened student population some PTTC facilities are seriously
underused. The Schedules of Accommodation (which guided construction designs) showed overall
Room Use Factors of 89% and 84% for the 720- and 480-enrollment colleges respectively: these
figures were based on a class size of 30 students. Because this number is now 40, the overall
Room Use Factors are now reduced to 60% and 57% respectively. The number of teaching rooms
m PTTCs and the building configuration xeflect the original plan that students would move
between classrooms in the course of a day to learn a different subject (rotation). But by increasing
class size, each class now occupies its own permanent classroom and does not have to rotate except
occasionally when work in a special room such as a laboratory is required. The lack of consequent
design adjustment accounts for the inadequate or under-use of rooms, particularly special purpose
rooms (intended to train teachers in vocational subjects such as agriculture, sewing, cooking and
science'. This is strikingly evident when touring the PTTCs.
24.    The implications of this change in class size are startling: the Credit could have provided
25% fewer college places - a saving of 1,020 spaces or more than two of the smaller PTTCs or
equivalent to about US$ 16 million in IDA Credit borrowings. This implies that on completion,
Taita Taveta and Garissa PTTCs can be converted to a different use such as secondary schools.
Even if real demand for teachers increases in the long-run, there is no reason to build new PTTCs
for some time to come. The teaching areas and staff housing are adequate for a one-third increase
in enrollment. Simple dormitory expansion (and a change to dining arrangements in shifts) will
allow an extra enrollment of 1,360 - or equal to almost two of the larger PTTCs.
25.     Like the AZSs, the financial sources of the PTTCs are Government grants, student fees
and income-generating activities. Under the current situation, the PTTCs are not financially
sustainable and maintenance is given low priority. PT[Cs have been running on deficits and their
debts are accumulating every year. Since cost-sharing for PTTCs was introduced two years ago,
students have paid about KES 15,000 for a two-year education: this is only one-third of a P1
teacher's starting wage (KES 44,400 per year). Their contribution of about KES 6,000 to
boarding covers only 50-60 percent of food costs. Overall PTTC students' share of the costs is
much lower than those of private PTTCs, Technical Training Institutes (TTIs) and Institutes of
Technology (ITs). Students of private PTTCs pay over KES 30,000 but take the same jobs on
graduation. Those in TTIs and ITs with similar background pay KES 30,000 to 36,000 for two-
year training, while their starting wages as civil servants are similar: graduates of TTIs and of ITs
are not guaranteed employment and most of them go to the Jua Kali sector. Cost-recovery
measures are urgently needed. Recognizing these problems, the MOE formed a committee to look
into financing of the PTTCs including the cost-recovery issue: following its recommendations, a
more comprehensive fee system has just been formall..,ed which will recover the full cost of
boarding and food.



Part 1: Implementation Assessment                                         oape 8 of 11
26.   It seems clear that PTTCs and AZSs could benefit from an official commitment to explore
new modes of school management and financing. Both PTTCs and AZSs exhibit a dependency
syndrome which is caused partly by MOE's control and partly by public expectations. In most of
the institutions visited, limited initiative had been shown in simple matters (although this varied
reflecting the leadership of principals and headmasters/mistresses).  These institutions expected
everything to be done by contractors since no buildings were officially handed over: for exarnple,
the institutions mistook defects liability corrections for new or additional work.  PIU had
apparently not given guidance on this important distinction.
Bank Performance
27.   Project identification was consistent with the Government's education policy as well as
the Bank's CAS. But preparation was unsatisfactory: more comprehensive preparation could
have explored alternatives other than total emphasis on civil works to meet the objectives. The
Bank could have more seriously addressed the pressing policy and institutional issues which have
been discussed (paras. 4-5) and analyzed the implications of fully public financing. Serious
concern about increased recurrent expenditure is justified - particularly in view of the 30% cap.
However, the Bank remained passive in addressing this issue and its implication for the project.
The Bank did not evaluate the impact of five primary boarding schools (under the Fourth
Education Project) on the primary education in semi-arid regions but nevertheless picked up the
unfulfilled commitment under that project. The costly construction of semi-arid boarding schools
in the Fourth Education Project had already started to emerge as an issue in the project
preparation meetings. The existing day school buildings were not capitalized on for AZSs (para.
20).
28.    Bank performance in project appraisal was highly unsatisfactory. Although cooperating
closely with the Government, the Bank failed to address sustainability issues by omitting the
financing aspects of the schools to be built. The Bank was inconsistent in the following aspects of
project design. First, the Bank recommended boarding at AZSs, but the requirement for 100%
boarding was not justified and no measures were taken to alleviate the costs of boarding for poor
children. The option of smaller PTTCs for day-time students living close to the community could
have been explored. Second, water works were transferred to local authorities. This was not
realistic or fair to these authorities considering their weak management capacity. Third, the Bank
failed to take into account Government's inability to provide counterpart funds, although being
aware of the weak government financial position at the time of appraisal and the weak performance
of the economy during the 1980s. Specific DCA conditions to ensure counterpart funding were
removed at Government request during negotiations; no effective substitutes were put in place.
Fourth, despite the importance and sensitivity of site acquisition and land use in Kenya, the Bank
did not use the systematic and objective site selection process based on technical feasibility which
was available.
29.   Supervision was regularly conducted at least twice a year but from a technical viewpoint
there were serious weaknesses. First, the expertise of staff did not match the needs of different
stages of supervision. This led to inappropriate civil works design initially and little concern for
achievement of project objectives later. Second, the aides-mamoire of supervision missions record
an unduly limited number of site visits. The consequence was over-reliance on the PIU reports.
Third, evaluation of the project ohbjectives was not taken seriously since the project was considered
an essentially civil works initiative. Fourth, weakness of project supervision overlooked the cost
implications of project modifications. The Bank was misinformed by the PIU and in turn,



Part I: ImDlementation Assessment                                        Da2e 9 of 11
inadvertently misinformed the Government conceming the cost overrun. The Bank over-issued no-
objections beyond the credit fund. Fifth the Bank failed to insist on the agreed project document
provisions in case of violation. This is shown by: failure to insist on DCA provisions for
appropriately qualified technical management; long delay of studies (a timely report on the supply
of and demand for primary school teachers could have shown that the seventh PTTC was not
needed before the seventh Taita Taveta PTTC construction began): even after a Bank mission
architect identified over-design and expansion of space in 1987, no effectual follow-up ensued.
Borrower Performance
30.    Preparation was effective with clearly-defined objectives. Implementation was deficient in
some significant respects. Treasury budgetary procedures and the Government's cumbersome
procedures resulted in delays and directly attributable costs. MOE failed to complete measures to
plan, implement or monitor the increased cost-effectiveness of education.
31.    Although receiving substantially greater technical assistance, fellowship awards and
training than originally planned, PIU did not develop adequate technical managerial capacity: it
used all the allocated resources for consultants but used 150 percent more technical assistance, and
117 person-months of fellowship time and training not allocated for in the SAR (Table 5). Eist,
PIU did not exhibit the technical competence to identify and rectify fundamental flaws in
architectural design. The DCA stipulated that an architect or civil engineer be recruited as the
Deputy Director of PIU to run complex construction projects. Non-compliance of this provision
prevented the day-to-day direction required by the nature of the project. Second, there was no cost
control system in place. While PIU should have acted to bring costs back under control at crucial
stages of the construction process, there are no indications that measures were taken to arrest or
alleviate the situation. Third, PIU was weak in financial management. For example, PIU
requested the Bank's October 1994 mission to support a fourth extension of the project (this was
declined). However, the credit fund was exhausted before closing date and many claims from the
PIU were retumed to the Treasury. Fourth, covenant compliance was only partially satisfactory,
the most significant weakness being the consistent delays in presenting audit reports and the cost-
effectiveness of education study .
Assessment of Outcome
32.    Overall, the project outcome was not satisfactory. The project shows various symptoms
shared by education projects focused exclusively on public provision of services where the
Government is also facing severe financial constraints: concentrating on inputs rather than results,
lacking efficiency, cost effectiveness, acceptability to parents and relevance to students' needs.
The project cannot be said to have sufficiently enhanced the quality and equity of the education
system. Cost and time control was inadequate, and quality control was seriously flawed. The AZSs
and PTTCs were over-designed, over-specified and over-supplied with fumiture and equipment.
For both civil works and equipment, sufficient attention was not paid to sustainability or
beneficiaries' needs when specifying requirements. Recently completed physical works already
show problems of maintenance and sustainability. The AZSs are under-enrolled and the facilities
of both the PTTCs and the AZSs are underused. The financing problem for poor children's
schooling in the arid zones is serious. The PTTCs are not financially sustainable with still limited
cost-sharing. The Govenmment's employment assurance policy combined with the expanded
capacity of PTTCs imposes a serious burden on the recurrent expenditure and undermines the
efficiency of the labor market.



Part I: Imnlementation Assessment                                       Da2e 10 of 11
Completion and Future Operation: Options
33.    First, the Government should complete the remaining civil works in Garissa and Taita
Taveta. This requires about KES 700 million to settle all incurred claims and future commitments
for contractors, professional services and suppliers.  The MOE, in consultation with local
authorities, institutional managers and beneficiaries, will prepare a financial and prioritization plan
for completing the project in the most cost-effective manner. The first priority will be given to the
completion of the tuition block and dormitories in Garissa and Taita Taveta. The Government may
then consider the following options: convert these two PTTCs to some other purpose and get
development funds for that purpose; complete the PTTCs through mobilizing the community fund
(or harambee); give the PTTCs to the local districts or communities to run as they see fit while
they pay the cost of final completion, after Government gives as much as it can; or sell the
PTTCs to the private sector. If the MOE decides to supervise the remaining civil works, MOE
may wish to hire a consulting architect firm instead of the PIU. Second, the AZSs and PTTCs
should make every effort to improve the efficient use of facilities and incorporate sustainability.
The MOE will explore measures: to devolve financial and managerial responsibilities to the
institutions to enhance ownership; to foster the management capacity of the administrators and
educational managers; to involve the parents and community in school activities and governance;
and to develop monitoring and evaluation systems for the greater efficiency, effectiveness and
sustainability of these institutions. For AZSs, the measures to finance recurrent costs through
demand-driven financing will be explored. The Government has just formalized a fee system under
which PTTC students will pay the full cost of boarding and food: further cost-recovery measures
will be considered. The Government plans to introduce loans and bursaries particularly for
students from disadvantaged areas to ensure their access to teacher training. This is encouraging
but given the poor record of university loans, special care should be taken for targeting and
maintaining the repayment rate. (See Table 6, Part II.) Third, follow-up projects should focus
empowering beneficiaries through open competition and on diversifying new funding sources for
social infrastructure with the private sector's active involvement. These approaches could do much
to improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and market relevance of education. An OED evaluation
should be conducted in 3 years.
Key Lessons Learned
34.    First, this project clearly illustrates that full public financing and p-bli" provision of
education services, coupled with restriction of financial and managerial autonomy, inhibits
efficiency and effectiveness and generates little beneficiary involvement. The project's inceiitives
strucrure allowed indifference to economy and effectiveness to persist unchecked. The PIU was
grantd exclusive access to the IDA funds for construction, but was not made accountable for the
daily operation and maintenance of the schools and colleges after completion. This gap in
responsibilities appears to have led to over-design and implementation delays (see paras. 13-17).
Proper incentives and effective sanctions would help to ensure monitored access, responsible
ownership and prudent management. To this end, a two-pronged solution is needed: (a) the
demand-driven approach to empower students and parents to make schools more responsive to
students' needs and to local market demand. To improve primary school enrollment, the poor
should be targeted by providing demand-side financing vehicles such as vouchers and scholarships
to finance both leaming and some of the opportunity costs of time spent studying which is taken
away from contributing to survival: and (b) instead of funding a few politically-selected institutions
with limited local ownership, a new approach may be developed to finance expansion and



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       Dare 11 of 11
modernization of physical infrastructure.  This approach could leverage co-financing from
domestic financial institutions to fund physical infrastructure of schools and colleges, public and
private, using land and perhaps other equity as collateral. Placing collateral at risk ensures that
the school owner has the incentive to choose the most cost-effective investments and maintain close
and constant supervision of construction and installation.
35.    Second. a feasible financing scheme should provide quality education in a sustainable
manner. Increased cost-recovery measures are particularly needed for post-primary education. To
ensure that poor students are not deprived of education, student loans and bursary schemes through
means-testing should be established.
36.    Third, future education projects in Kenya should focus tightly on the following specific
requirements:
*  contribute to the Government's development of a coherent sector policy framework with a
specified action plan during project preparation;
*  operate with a participatory approach - throughout the whole project cycle, ultimate
beneficiaries (parents and students) should be actively involved and consulted;
*  decentralize school management. This will encourage ownership and lead to efficient and
effective management at the local level;
* properly evaluate the ability of both the Government and the direct beneficiaries to provide
counterpart funds for operation and maintenance of new institutions; this is especially
important given prevailing economic conditions;
*  devise mechanisms to ensure correct and timely payments to consultants, contractors and
suppliers, and install these checks as part of Bank supervision procedures;
*  establish a system to monitor the implementation and evaluate performance against project
objectives; and
*  develop a fully integrated reporting system to cover financial management, using pre-
accepted criteria and maintaining adherence to design intent. This system should embody
a reliable "fail safe" warning system.
37.   From a Bank perspective, a lasting lesson has been the re-appearance of the familiar
problems described in this report: future projects should deploy firm, consistent measures to
prevent these chronic problems. Moving to a new model for financing physical plant at schools
and colleges will facilitate the expansion of economically viable educational institutions: demand-
side financing (which will reflect the wider demand-driven approach to the project) will empower
beneficiaries to make informed choices about education and facilitate market response to this
demand through competition. These approaches will structurally and systematically prevent (or
safely limit) many of the risks and consequences presented in this Report. They will also help
ensure that the institutions just created will acquire the financing needed to meet the closely
controlled costs of operations and maintenance.



Part 11
Table 1
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
..   '.'.   '.:-' 'N   ''...   . ....                                                                          ...   ...   ..    .......    S',........
BUb.'st'n3w'.01               'ata                    M giI t 1ot511.0bI
A. Achievement of objectives
macro-economic policies                                                                                                                          X
sectoral policies                    X                                                    X
financial objectives                                                                                                  X
institutional development                                                                 X
physical objectives                                                                       X
poverty reduction                                                                         X
gender issues                                                                                                                                    X
other social objectives                                                                                                                          X
environmental objectives                                                                                                                         X
public sector management                                                                                              X
private sector developmenta_
o p e r ati o n~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _ _                                    _  _  _ _  _  _                   X = 
E.  Assjecsusmet ofail oucm                                 B________    ________________
.....S ..    ,.,:' .'.:- ,.-.'.'.,'."'''-""""
__                                      .               .  ........   .....  ......   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........   .  :::.'.:..  ' .'': .:':: -': .. .....':
B. pprojctsstiabl          t                                                                                                                         X
supervision~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... .....
D........ B o r o w e                                                                                                                                        ..............
preparation                                                                                                                        ...X                      . ....
c.oBankn perormplanceX
identfiation                                                                                                          X
implsesmentaootiome                                                                                                       X



Part 11
Table 2
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Past Operations
First Education Project The project financed a major expansion program which  1966    Closed
(C 93-KE)            involved construction and equipping of 42 general           on time,
US$7 million         secondary schools, 9 technical secondary schools, and       1970
11 PTTCs. The project was completed on time, at a
cost 8% above appraisal. The project was judged to
have met Kenya's requirements for high-level
manpower to support economic and social growth to
replace expatriates.
Second Education     The project was to expand and improve the agricultural    1970    Closed 2
Project              education and training system at the professional, sub-     years
(C 1 85-KE)          professional, and skilled labor levels. Specifically, the   late,
US$6.1 million       project expanded training for agricultural staff and        1977
farmers, secondary and technical education, the
construction of a new technical secondary school, and
the establishment of a unit within the Ministry of
Education for education planning. The project was
judged to have been successful at meeting all
quantitative targets, but not so on the qualitative front:
concerns were raised on the lack of cooperation between
the PIU and the MoW education team.
Table 2: page 1 of 4



Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
IPast Operations____
lThird Education      The project was to improve the quality of basic      1975     Closed
lProjcect             education and to establish a framework for long-term          18
|(L 1 184-KE)         development of the education and training sector. It          months
lUS$10 million        focussed on expanding and improving primary teacher          late, onl
training, on the distribution and storage of school          12/31/83
equipment, and on assistance to the development of
l               ~~~~~~curricula and education media, and assistance to the
l               ~~~~~~National Committee on Educational Objectives and
l               ~~~~~~Policies (NCEOP) which issued a report in January
l                ~~~~~~1977. The project encountered delays for various
l               ~~~~~reasons: lack of manpower from MoW, weak
l               ~~~~~~administrative capability of the PIU, difficulties met
l               ~~~~~~during procurement of specialized equipment, and
l               ~~~~~~reluctance of the Government to utilize technical
l               ~~~~~~assistance funds under the loan. Overall, the major
physical objectives of the project were met.
lFourth Education     The project was to further expand agricultural training  1978  Closed 2
lProject              capacity at the degree and certificate levels, develop        years
l(C 797-KE)           project management training, assist primary education         late,
US$23 million         in arid zones and village polytechnics (now junior           1984
polytechnics), and support curriculum development and
examination research and planning. At termination,
over US$3.8 million equivalent was undisbursed and
therefore cancelled. This was due partly to devaluation,
failure to use technical assistance and failure to procure
essential equipment for the project institution. Despite
a substantial cancellation of funds, the project achieved
considerable success in curriculum reform, improved
project development and management capability,
l               ~~~~~~increased capacity in agricultural education and
l               ~~~~~~training, and expanded access to primary education in
nomadic areas. Delays arose because of insufficient
l               ~~~~~~staff in the PIU who had to implement the Third,
l               ~~~~~~Fourth, and Fifth Education Projects concurrently; the
l               ~~~~~~government's difficulties in budgeting the counterpart
l               ~~~~~~funds; and, the spread of the project over many
l               ~~~~~~Ministries which made it difficult to coordinate.
Table 2: page 2 of 4



Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
Past 0perations       __
Fifth Education Project  The project included constructing, furnishing, equipping  1981  Closed 5
(C 1107-KE)           and providing technical assistance to KESI, faculty of         years
US$35 mnillion        agriculture, Coast Agricultural Institute, and Industrial      late,
Training Centers.                                              1991
The project was to assist in training manpower at the
managerial levels, specifically, training of: primary and
secondary school management staff; high and middle
level technicians in agriculture; high and middle level
technicians in water supply development; and skilled
workers for the industrial sector. At the government's
request, the Kenya Water Resources Training Institute
(appraised at US$10.3 M.) was replaced by several
smaller components to support a study in manpower
and training requirements, examinations development,
education system planning, curriculum development,
and media preparation.
Education Sector      The project sought to achieve the following: reduce the  1991  Closed,
Adjustment Credit     growth of the education recurrent budget; expand access to     03/10/95
(EDSAC)               education and increase retention at primary and secondary
(C 2295-KE)           levels; enhance and improve the quality and relevance of
US$ 100 rrillion      education at all levels; and strengthen sector management,
planning, budgeting and information systems.
The list of actions included: limit the growth of the
primary and secondary teaching forces, limit new
admissions to the public universities, introduce a direct
charge on all public university students, reform the
student loan scheme, reintroduce public financing of
textbooks to pfimary schools, strengthen the MoE's
Planning Unit, and strengthen the Commnission for
Higher Education to oversee the development and
financing of public universities.
Table 2: page 3 of 4



Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
On-going Operations  ___    __                                                 _
University Investrnent   The project supports the Government's program to   1992     To close,
Project               consolidate and develop the Universities by: (a)               12/31/96
(C 2309-KE)           rationalizing and strengthening the institutional framework
US$ 55 million        for higher education in the public and private sectors; (b)
limiting the growth of budgetary resources devoted to the
public universities by promoting cost sharing and improved
investment planning; and (c) improving the quality of
teaching and research delivered at public universities.
The project is directly complementary to the EDSAC,
building on the higher education adjustment policies
supported by EDSAC which was approved by the
Board in September 1991 (C 2295-KE) and closed
March 1995. UIP is being suspended with its
achievements being almost nil.
Table 2: page 4 of 4



Part II
Table 3
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 3 Project Timetable
Identification                                                    June 1984
Preparation                                  March 1985           April 1985
Appraisal                                    April 1985           ApriUMay 1985
Negotiations                                 November 1985        November 1985
Board Presentation                           March 1986           March 1986
Signing                                       1986                July 1986
Effectiveness                                 July 1986           February 1987
Mid-term Review                               June 30, 1989       not done
Establishment of a Special Account                                May 1990
Changes to the Development Credit Agreement:
reallocation of funds                                            December 1991
reallocation of funds                       March 1993 (GOK      July 1993
requested)
reallocaLtion of funds                      February 1994 (GOK   October 1994
requested)
Project Completion                           December 31, 1991    June 30, 1994
Closing                                      June 30, 1992        Decemnber 31, 1994



Part II
Table 4
Kenya
Sixtli Education Project
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
<,,',,,,', ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............  . ........   ........   ':.'.'" ,'" '.'f' ........   .................  ....   ....   . ..   ....................... ''',''' 
FY87   Ql 09/86         0.40        0.40                                      Q%
Q2 12/86        0.90        1.30                                      0%
Q3 03/87        1.30        2.60                                      0%
Q4 06/87        1.50        4.10                                      0%
FY88   Ql 09/87         1.80        5.90          0.03           0.03         0%
Q2 12/87        2.00        7.90          0.76           0.79         2%
Q3 03/88        2.00        9.90          0.02           0.80         2%
Q4 06/88        2.20       12.10          0.02           0.82         2%
FY89   Ql 09/88         2.20       14.30          0.22           1.04         2%
Q2 12/88        2.20       16.50          0.00           1.04         2%
Q3 03/89        2.00       18.50          0.34           1.38          3%
Q4 06/89        2.00       20.50          1.64           3.02         6%
FY90   Ql 09/89         2.00       22.50          1.47           4.49         9%
Q2 12/89        1.80       24.30          0.76           5.25         11%
Q3 03/90        1.80       26.10          4.39           9.64         20%
Q4 06/90        1.80       27.90          4.90          14.54         30%
.FY91   Ql 09/90         1.80        29.70         0.58           15.12         31%.
Q2 12/90        1.60       31.30      -0.00             15.12         31%
Q3 03/91        1.60       32.90          2.53          17.65         36%
Q4 06/91        1.30       34.20          2.41          20.06         41%
FY92   Ql 09/91         1.30       35.50          0.24          20.30         42%
Q2 12/91        1.00       36.50          2.46          22.76         47%
Q3 03/92        0.70       37.20          0.39          23.15         48%
Q4 06/92        0.30       37.50          1.92          25.06         52%
FY93   Ql1 09/92                                  2.79          27.85         57%
Q2 12/92                                  1.32          29.17         60%
Q3 03/93                                  2.78          31.95         66%
Q4 06/93                                  1.03          32.98         68%
FY94   Ql 09/93                                   2.22          35.20         72%
Q2 12/93                                  0.08          35.29         73%
Q3 03/94                                  1.18          36.47         75%
Q4 06/94                                  2.20          38.66         80%
FY95   Ql 09/94                                   2.91          41.58         86%
Q2 12/94                                  3.05          44.63         92%
Q3 03/95                                  0.81          45.43         94%
Q4 06/95                                  3.13          48.57         100%
Table 4: page 1 of 2



SAR Estimates and Actual Disbursements
45.00
40.00
-  35.00
30.00 -
25.00
4 e 20.00
15.00
o10.00
5.00
0.00
Quarters
U SAR Estimates U Actual
Source: LOAAF
Table 4: page 2 of 2



Kenya                                                          Part II
Sixth Education Project                                               Table 5
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nme i,fVatg. 4X*tbt S=Oo<iIe
. Key implementation indicators in SAR
Primary Teacher Training Colleges IPTTCs)
number of completed PTTCs                                7                  5
at Bondo                                             720  11/90         720  04/95  practically complete
at Muranga                                           720  11/90         720  04/95  practically complete (playing fields to
be completed by 09/95)
at Tambach                                           720  11/90         720  06/95  practically complete (landscaping to
be completed by 1 1/951
at Garissa                                           480  06/92         N/A  09/95  civil works 95% complete;
landscaping and water works to be
completed by 11/95
at Narok                                             480  11/90         480  03/95  practically complete
at Taita Taveta (Voi)                                480  07/94         N/A  09/95  civil works about 83% complete,
landscaping to be completed
at Baringo                                           480  11/90         480  06/95  practically complete (landscaping to
be completed by 09/95)
total capacity (number of students)                  4,080  06/92       3,120  06/95  expect to enroll 3600 by August,
1995
Arid Zone Primary Schools (AZSs)
number of completed AZSs                                 3                  3
at Konyao                                            400  10/90         227   12/91  complete and operational
at Barsaloi                                          400  10/90         164  12/91  complete and operational
at Mokowe                                            400  10/90         139  12/91  complete and operational
total capacity (number of students)                  1,200   as of        530    as of
06/92              05/95
Table 5: page 1 of 3



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Number    Dat    Nuber  bt
Curriculum Development
courses for which new materials are prepared         N/P /2                149  05/95  Subjects developed/revised for
primary (10), secondary (31), TEP
courses for which new materials are in use              N/P                      05/95  and post-secondary training (87)
students using the new materials                   500,000  06/92          N.A  05/95
Education Media Equipment
equipment delivered and installed               Please refer to appendix 2              All equipment allocated in the SAR
equipment in use                                Please refer to appendix 2              Supplied, received, verified, and
installed: 55,719 cassettes of radio
program and 216 video tapes of
training progra, developed
students using the new materials                        N/P                             installed
Education Planning and Statistics
equipment delivered and installed (Planning     Please refer to appendix 2              All equipment allocated in the SAR
Unit)
equipment in use (Planning Unit)                Please refer to appendix 2              Supplied, received, verified, and
equipment delivered and installed (TSC)         Please refer to appendix 2               installed
equipment in use ITSC)                          Please refer to appendix 2
Table 5: page 2 of 3



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Project Administration
contracted employees and consultants on post              6  02/87           6  02/87  The PIU staff of specialists was
and functioning effectively                                                         to  maintained throughout the
05/95  implementation of the project
new organizational structure functioning effectively   N/A  02/87               02/87  The reorganization took place before
credit effectiveness
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)
Technical Assistance
Specialist services
. assistance to EMS (pers-yrs)                          5  06/92           0  05/95  Technical assistance was replaced by
training
. assistance for the Planning Unit (pers-yrs)           3  06/92           0  05/95  Technical assistance was replaced by
training
. assistance for the PIU (pers-yrs)                    30  06/92          45  06/94
Fellowships and Training
. educational media (pers-yrs)                         10  06/92          1 6  06/94  The actual training provided
. curriculum development (pers-yrs)                    10  06/92          1 6  06/94  by the project far exceeds
. for the Planning Unit (person-month)                 30  06/92         112  12/93  the estimated value
. for the TSC (person-month)                            0  06/92          40  06/94  Resources for technical
. for the PIU (person-month)                            0  06/92         117  06/95
Equipment for the KIE, TSC, and the PU of MEST (please refer to appendix 2)
Ill. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
Notes:
/1   N.A. = not available
/2   N/A = not applicable
N/P = Estimate not provided in the SAR
Table 5: page 3 of 3



Part If
Kenya                                                       Table 6
Sixth Educatic  'roject
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operation Options
Complete the civil works -in         The funding shortfall after Credit closing was  *   A decision by the Government to finance the funding shortfall is urgently needed to avoid
particular, Garissa and Taita        assessed at around 700 million Kenya shillings.   disruption to the work under process and to complete the remaining part of the project.
Taveta.                              This was required to complete the civil works     The MOE has requested the Treasury to make available additional funding to complete the
contracts at Garissa and Taita Taveta and other   project.
water supply and landscaping subcontracts, and    *   The Ministry, in consultation with local authorities, institutional managers and
to settle all incurred claims and any future      beneficiaries, will prepare a financial and prioritization plan for completing the project in a
commitments for contractors, professional         most cost-effective manner. This includes, for example, finishing the buildings -
services, and suppliers to complete the project.  classrooms and dormitories- before the playing fields.
*   The Government may consider the following options: convert them to some other purpose
and get development funds for that purpose; complete them through mobilizing the
community fund (or harambee); give them to the local districts or communities to run as
they see fit, and pay for final completion, after Government gives as much as it can; or sell
them to the private sector. If the MOE decides to supervise the remaining civil works,
MOE may wish to hire a consulting architect firm instead of the PIU.
The AZSs need to be both         *   All the schools remain underused. These schools   *   Every attempt should be made to ensure maximum enrollment from the nomadic population
efficiently utilized and financially  were built to provide training and boarding for  for which these schools were intended. This includes measures to provide incentives to the
sustainable.                         400 students, yet, none are being used to full    schools to increase boarding enrollment. In the case of insufficient enrollment efforts to
capacity. Added efforts to increase use are       admit day students should be encouraged.
needed.                                       *   In some schools incorporating secondary level classes or even converting the school into a
*   The limnited ability of students of nomadic       secondary school would maximize social benefits.
populations to pay boarding fees and the lack of    *   Measures to finance recurrent costs through demand-side financing (such as vouchers,
feeding programs prevent school enrollment.      scholarships, and other household empowerment measures) should be explored.
*   Elaborate and expansive design coupled with the   *   The poor should be targeted by providing such incentives as food programs and support of
need for appropriate maintenance increase the     opportunity costs
pressure on sustainability and recurrent      *   Machinery and equipment provided to the schools through the project can also be rented
expenditures.                                     out for community use. In Barsaloi, the school tractor has been rented to the community.
*   Income-generating activities by the schools have    *   The AZSs should be given more flexibility in conducting enrollment and financing
been limited.                                     policies.
*   There has been limited use of the school facilities  *   Consultants should be engaged to prepare maintenance manuals for the physical
for community activities, such as using the       infrastructure of the schools.
schools as community centers.                 *   The use of the school facilities should be encouraged for community activities such as
village meetings, ceremonies, and other special events.
*   The schools can also be used for adult education, in particular, basic literacy tutoring or
agricultural training.
*   Develop monitoring and evaluation system for efficiency, cost effecliveness and
sustainability of AZSs.
Table 6: page I of 2



Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations (continued)
...                                                                                            .... ... .    ' :'' '"'"'," " '''-"'"''""""""'""i""'"'''"'"'' '"'"""'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   . . . . . . . . . . .
.                                                                                                       ; ';' . S'. '''. ''. . ' '.f.':^ ..... e e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . .
The PTTCs need to be efficiently    *   The facilities are severely underused. The         *   Measures are needed to increase use of the facilities.
utilized and financially                 Schedules of Accommodation show overall room    *   Use of the colleges for in-service training (the 3-year in-service training and the training of
sustainable.                             use factors of 60% and 57% for 720- and 480-           pre-school teachers taken during the breaks or holidays) and for pre-school teachers
enrollment colleges respectively. These facilities    training).
are idle during school breaks.                    *   Cost recovery should be increased: but ensure that poor students are not left out of the
Currently the colleges are not financially            system, financial aid and other demand-side support should be made available through
sustainable. The colleges have been running on        means-testing. Cost recovery measures and steps to ensure equity and access to the poor
deficits and their debts are accumulating every       would be explored under the studies sponsored by the Cost and Financing of Education
year. Although cost recovery measures have been       Project.
introduced in the last two years, students still pay   *   The PTTCs should have more fIT.-icial and managerial responsibilities and the flexibility
too little compared to what they would have paid      to charge fees to recover the cos'L of z.aining and boarding for both pre-service and in-
in secondary schools TTCs.                            service training. The colleges should have the flexibility and be given the incentives to
*   On average, students at the PTTCs only pay             compete for students, particularly the in-service trainees.
about 50-60% of their food costs. Further cost    *   The management capacity of the administrators and educational managers should be
recovery measures are urgently needed.                strengthened, especially, in financial management. The facilities of these colleges can be
*   Most colleges are too dependent on Government          used for such purposes.
grants to take any income-generating initiatives.    *   The colleges should be encouraged (and given the incentives) to generate extra income for
This is due to their limited financial and            programs they administer during the breaks such early childhood development, and adult
managerial control as well as their high               literacy programs. Colleges should be encouraged to undertake other activities to generate
expectations for financial support from the           income such as renting out facilities and equipment.
Government.                                       *   Consultants should be engaged to prepare maintenance manuals for the physical
*   The need for adequate maintenance coupled with         infrastructure of the colleges.
elaborate and expansive (23% larger than          *   Develop monitoring and evaluation system for efficiency, cost effectiveness and
appraised area) design increases the pressure on       sustainability of PTFCs.
sustainability on recurrent expenditures.
Table 6: page 2 of 2



Part if.
Kenya                                                            Table 7
Sixth Education Project
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Studies Carried Out Under Education VI
1. MOE Computerization Study             Computer        The study was to make a reconunendation on     The study was too late for its recommendations to be
Consultants    installing an MIS in the Ministry of Education and    feasibly financed under the project. There were two
Ltd.           Technology. This MIS is an addition to the    reasons for the delay. First, the study was stalled at
computers and equipment already provided under the  CTB where the involvement of the Govermment
project. The installation of this new system was  Computer Manager was required for CTB to finalize
estimated to be very costly.                  its evaluation on the proposed consultant firm. CTB's
concern was that the Govermnent Computer Manager
was not involved in the initial evaluations undertaken
by PIU and MTB. Second, even after the involvement
of the Manager, the appointment of consultants to
undertake the study was delayed until 04/94.
Although the MOE had requested funds in the
Universities Investment Project (UIP) to finance the
installation of the MIS, the WB maintained that this
option was not feasible because the transfer of funds
from UIP would require a major amendment to the
Credit Agreement and could require further Board
approval (since the UTIP was designed specifically for
investments in Universities, not capacity-building of
the Ministry).
Table 7: page I of 2



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project (continued)
2 Cost-effectiveness of education         Government of  The borrower, according to section 3.04 of the DCA,  The study has never been completed. Around March
Kenya,         was to provide to the IDA, by December 31, 1987,    1990, some work had been initiated but, shortly after
Ministry of    for its review and comment: (a) a detailed plan of    that, the undertaking was crowded-out by other
Education      action to increase the cost-effectiveness of education,  priorities within the Ministry, notably the preparation
including, cost recovery measures; and (b) concrete   for the EDSAC.
and monitorable measures to be taken in the
implementation of such plan.                  As part of the preparation for EDSAC, an equivalent
study was completed. In May 1991, the IDA agreed to
consider the GOK's education sector adjustment
program (in particular, its letter of education sector
policy) as constituting the action plan. The covenant
has been complied with but after more han 3 years
delay.
3. Development of a technical education  Govermnent of  The study was to provide KIE information that would  The study was completed early by the mid 1 980s but
curriculum taking into account the Manpower   Kenya,     help it develop a technical education curriculum  the  impact was  negligible  because  the  main
and Training Requirements Study (the     Ministry of     more attuned to the manpower requirement of the  beneficiary, the KIE, did not receive the final draft.
Manpower study was commissioned under the   Education    economy.
Fifth Credit Cl 107-KE).
4. Report on the Supply of and Demand for    Government of  The study was to help education planners gauge  The study was to assess the need for Taita Taveta and
Primary School Teachers                   Kenya,         resources efficiently for the training of primary  was long-delayed. The earlier draft of the study was
Ministry of    school teachers according to PTTCs' capacity and  based on 1979 census data so undermining the
Education      the demand for primary teachers projected over in   timeliness of its recommendation. The final version
the next 10 years. The study was not a part of the  was revised using 1989 data but was not transmitted to
project's agreement. It only came about when the    the Bank until February 1994.  At that time, the
Ministry requested an extension of the Credit to  construction of Taita Taveta has already started.
finish Taita Taveta PTTC. At the time, the Bank
asked the Ministry to undertake the study to confirm
the need to build another PTTC.
Table 7: page 2 of 2



Kenya                                             Part n
Sixth Education Project                                 Table SA
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimates /a                    Actual
Project Components              Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
Costs    Costs    Costs       Costs    Costs    Costs
1. Primary School Improvement
(a) Primary teacher training              17.53      9.56   27.09        39.67    16.81     56.48
(b) Arid zone schools                      1.54      1.00    2.54         0.45     2.58      3.04
(c) Education media support                0.32      1.05     1.37        0.00     3.43      3.43
2. Secondary and Technical Education
(a) Curriculum development                  1.99     2.41    4.40         0.68     2.12      2.80
. Institutional Development
(a) Ministry Planning Unit                 0.12      0.24    0.36         0.05     0.39      0.44
(b) Teachers Service Commission            0.02      0.09    0.11         0.01     0.16      0.17
Professional Services                       1.36      1.05    2.41         1.45     4.08      5.52
S. Project Administration                      1.29      1.05    2.34         1.62     1.10      2.73
6. Total Baseline Cost                        24.17    16.45   40.62        43.93    30.68    74.61
Physical contingencies                      1.93     1.00    2.93
Price contingencies                        7.95      4.56   12.51
otal Prject Costs /a                         34.05    22.01   56.06        43.93    30.68    74.61
a/ including taxes and duties of US$ 6.30 million equivalent.
SAR Estimates                                           Actual
55
4                                                     4
3
3
2
4.,.,,.,,'  '   .'. .:: g ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . .. .. ..  'R
1
~1
Legend
1. primary teacher training                               4. institutional development
2. arid zone schools                                        (PM, TSC and professional services)
3. education quality improvement                          5. project administration
(EMS support and curriculum development)
Source: Staff Appraisa' Report, LOAAF, and PIU.



Part II
Tebie 8B
Kenyn
Sixth Educatlon Projeot
Table 8B ProJect Flnoncing
SAR Estimatos and Actual
(US mililons)
. . . . . .. , . . , _ . . . .
, W SAR E tirn Actual
|Expendituro CgrJry  ::           :     -           ;
:         : ; ::    G"t   IDA    ToXl y              ;Gov't          IDA         Toed
(1 M   (2)     {3)             (4)      (5)
1  Civil works                 8 88   16 48   26 3e     10 60   16 80   20 80   33 08   49 88   53 88
2  Furniturs                   0 38    1 53    1 91      0 76    1 26    1 26    3 13    4 39    4 39
3  Equipment and vehicles      0 36    3 28    3 64      0 14    1 16    1 16    8 13    9 28    9 28
4  Specialistservices          098    098    1 96        012    012    012    018    031    031
5  Fellowships                 0 07    0 62    0 e9      0 04    0 33    0 33    0 88    1 21    1 21
6  Educational operations      1 72    2 11    3 83      0 62    0 62    0 62    0 92    1 54    1 5
7  Administrative operations   0 30    0 46    0 7S      1 60    2 30    2 30    0 12    2 42    2 42
8  Professional services       0 60    1 81    2 41      0 94    3 46    3 46    2 06    6 52    6 52
9  In-country training         0 03    0 04    0 07      0 02    0 02    0 02    0 03    0 06    0 06
10  Unallocated                6 24   10 20   16 44              0 00    0 00    0 00    0 00    0 0O
Zof which taxes)        {{6 301)    -    1{6 3011
Notes   (11 This Npresents what the Government has dre dy paid
As of May 27, 1996, tha Government has only disbursed an equivalent amount of USS 14 74
million Therefore, the pending amount of USt11 33 million r preaents incurred debt to
be settled Moreover, at the presem, local contribution is only 19% of total costs which
well below the floor of 26% agreed with IDA
(21 This represents the total amount that wouW be paid to settb ell ciims alreedy incurred
In this case, local contribution would be 34 S%
13) This represents the amount to be pald to complete the proJect
In this case, local contrlbution would be 38 9%
(4} This represents total costs already incurred
(51 This represents total expenditures to complete the project



Part U
Kenya                              Table 9
Sixth Education Project
Table 9: Costs of curriculum development, construction, and administration
.:: :. - -g ~~~~~~~~~.         .   .   :- :- :    .   :-:-.:    :.   : ::.. .. . .. ........: .   - .   - - -. ::- : :..::
Costs of PTTCs                              (3)
Construction unit costs (US$/meter squared)
Lower bound unit cost                            227.00         246.00         8.37
Upper bound unit cost                            285.00         742.00       160.35
Furniture (million)                                  2.04           3.67        80.11
Equipment (million)                                  1.34           3.76       179.96
Vehicles (million)                                   1.21           1.20        -0.49
Costs of AZSs                               (4)
Construction unit costs (US$/meter squared)
Lower bound unit cost                            168.00         163.00         -2.98
Upper bound unit cost                            252.00         255.00         1.19
Furniture (million)                                  0.00           0.53        76.09
Equipment (million)                                  0.00           0.74       157.78
Vehicles (million)                                   0.11           0.18        58.81
Curriculum development (million)                     7.46           5.23       -29.93
Project Administration
Operational costs (million)                          0.91           1.13        24.24
Vehicles (million)                                   0.16           0.19        16.05
Extra contribudons by the project (US$)
Office renovations and alterations for the PU                      25847                These items were
Accommodations to the PIU and the PPTG of the CHE                 102568                not appraised.
Provision of books to arid zone secondary schools                 600000
Provision of kitchen equipment for two Fifth IDA PTTCs             70000
(Kericho and Kaimosi)
Notes:
(1) In 1985 dollars updated to 95 using an average import unit values multiplier of 1.244 for Africa for imported goods.
These figures did not take into account the costs of water works and landscaping that are
built in the actual figures. The exchange rate was 16 Ksh to the dollar.
(2) The actual figures were in total Ksh converted to dollars using a disbursement weighted average exchange rate
of US$ 41 Ksh.
(3) The average unit cost of construction (phase 1 only) of a 720-capacity college is US$304-352/m2.
The average unit cost of construction (phase I only) of a 480-capacity college is US$635-736/m2.
(4) The average unit cost of construction (phase 1 only) of an AZS is US$223-259/m2.
Sources: SAR, Working Papers, and PIU



Part II
Table SC
Table SC. Project Financing (Continued)
SAR Estimates and Actual
(US$ millions)
SAR Eatirnates 11)               Actual
Soure:
Local   Forebn  Tota        Local   Forean  Totl
1. IDA                           15.49   22.01  37.50        18.41    30.13  48.54
2. Domestic contribution (2)     18.56     0.00  18.56       14.19     0.54  14.73
Domestic contribution 13)                                 25.52     0.54  26.06
Domestic contribution (4)                                                 30.06
Total Proiect Costs 45)       34.05   22.01  56.06        43.93   30.67  74.60
Total ProWactosst 46)                                                      78.60
Notes:
(1) Local and total figures include taxes and duties of US$6.30 million equivalent
(2) Represents the total amount already paid.
(3) Represents the total amount paid that would clear all pending debts already incurred.
(4) Represents the total amount paid that would complete the project (this includes an additional
amount of about US$4 million in civil works).
15) Represents the total costs already incurred.
(6) Represents the total expenditures to complete the project.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, LOAAF, and PIU



Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
& f r e .    ...   ........ ....... ..................da.  .                                                                                                                              .....
W        ...S... ..**..*.. ... .............
Article 3,      The borrower was to furnish to the IDA for its review and  Sectoral or       Delay       December       May,    The study on cost-effectiveness of education has never been completed.
section 3.04    comment: (a) a detailed plan of action to increase the cost-  cross-sectoral              31, 87        1991     Consequently, the plan of action to increase cost-effectiveness which was to have
effectiveness of education, including. cost recovery measures;  budgetary or                                     been based on this study has not been developed.
and (b) concrete and monitorable measures to be taken in the  other resource
implementation of such plan.                               allocation                                            However, three years later, as part of the preparation for EDSAC, an equivalent
study was completed. In May 1991, the IDA agreed to consider the GOK's
education sedor adjustment program (in particular, its letter of education sector
policy) as constituting the action plan.
Ardcle 3,       The borrower was to take all measures required to ensure   Management    Complied          N/A          N/A      The facilities are in operation.
section 3.05    adequate operation, maintenance, repair and renewal of facilities  aspects of the  with
and equipment provided under the project                   project or of
its executing
agency
Article 4,      The borrower shall cause PlUto flurnishto IDA no later than 6    Accounts and  Delay       N/A          N/A       Submission of audit reports are usually late. The reports for 1990/91, 1991/92,
section 4.01    months after the end of each year a certified copy of the audit  audit                                           and 1992/93 including the special account and statements of expenditure were
(b)             report prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.                                                       long overdue. As of 03/08/95, the Bank has neither received the audit report for
1993/94 nor an opinion on statements of expenditure for 1992/93 and 1993/94.
Article 4,      For all expenditures with resped to which withdrawals from the   Accounts and    Complied  N/A          N/A       The PIU maintains copies of all SOEs as well as opinions of the auditors on the
section 4.01    Credit Account are made on the basis of the SOE, the borrower   audit         with                               SOEs.
(c)             shall cause PIU to maintain separate records and accounts
reflecting such expendihure, retain them at least one year after
the completion of the audit for the frcsa year, and include in the
audit reports opinion by the auditors as to whether the proceeds
of the credit were used for the purposes for which they were
provided.
Table 10: page 1 of 3



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
1CA                      Dee                                          Cmwrntt ?zt OtI~a1 At
Article 7,     A staffing plan for PTTCs satisfactory to IDA was to be   Management    Complied         Not        05/95    Compliance fullfilled.
section 7.01   provided,                                                 aspects ofthe    with        provided
(a)                                                                      project or of
its executing
agency
Article 7,     Techinical curricula developed under the project would take into   Management    Complied  Not       Not    Compliance fullfilled.
section 7.01   account results ofthe manpower and training requirements  aspects ofthe    with       provided     provided
(b)            study.                                                   project or of
its executing
agency
Article 7,     To undertake TORs for specialists to be hired and produce a  Management    Complied      Not         Not      Compliance fullfilled. The implementation plan for fellowships and training was
section 7.01   plan for fellowships and training.                        aspects ofthe    with        provided    provided  relatively flexible, since the project provided substantially more fellowships and
(C)                                                                     project or of                                        training than were originally designed.
its executing
agency
Article 7,     Presentation by December 31, 1987 of detailed plans to    Sectoral or      Delay       12/1987     05/1991   The plan ofaction to increase cost-effectiveness of education including cost
section 7.01    increase the cost-effectiveness of education including cost  cross-sedoral                                   recovery measures based on this study has not been developed. However, three
(d)            recovery measures.                                       budgetary or                                         years later, as part ofthe preparation for EDSAC, an equivalent study was
other resource                                      completed. In May 1991, the IDA agreed to consider the GOK's education
allocation                                          sector adjustment program (in particular, its letter of education sector policy) as
constituting the action plan. The covenant has been complied with but after
more than 3 years delay (refer to Article 3, section 3.04).
Article 7,     Detailed action plan for reorganization of the PIU.       Management    Complied       02/1987     02/1987   Compliance fullfilled. The new organization chart and functions of the officers
section 7.01                                                             aspects of the   with                               were submitted to the IDA before February 1987 when the project took effect.
(e)                                                                      project or of
its executing
agency
Schedule 4,    The responsibility for the execution of the project shall be the  Management    Complied  N/A        N/A      Compliance fullfilled.
pars. 1        PIU. The Borrower shall, until completion, maintain the PIU  aspects of the  with
and keep it adequately staffed.                          project or of
its executing
agency
Table 10: page 2 of 3



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Shedule 4,      To ensure the PIU is more responsive to technical and     Management       Complied      02/1987     02/1987   Compliance fullfilled. The Director has access directly to both the Deputy
par 2           administrative duties, the Borrower shall take the following  aspects of the  with                              Secretary as well as the Permanent Secretary of the MOE. However, the
measures:                                                 project or of its                                     Director was not always available to supervision missions from IDA
(a) The PIU is to be headed by a Director who would report  executing
diredly to the Deputy Secretary ofthe MOE.                agency
Shedule 4,     (b) Establish within the PIU, a technical section, composed of 2   Management  Complied     N/A        10/1986   Compliance partially fullfilled. The Unit acquired I architect, I civil engineer,
pra' 2, (b)     architects and a civil engineer. The section shall be headed by a   aspects of the  with                        I quantity surveyor (in 1988), 2 site supervisors, and a Clerk of Works at each
Deputy Director who shall be a qualified architect or civil  project or of its                                  construction site. The Deputy Director is neither an architect nor a civil
engineer.                                                 executing                                             engineer. As project educator with the PIU since 1982, he has carried out the
agency                                                day-to-day management of the PRI effectively.
Shedide 4,     (c) TORs and experience of the Director and Deputy Director    Managernent  Complied        N/A         N/A      Compliance fullfilled with substantial delay, especially in forwarding the
pa. 2, (c)      shall be satisfactory to IDA.                             aspects of the   with delay                           Director's CV to the Association about 6 months after he assumed the
project or of its                                     assignment. The Deputy Director, who assumed the day-to-day management of
executing                                             the PIU, is neither an architect nor a civil engineer as specified in the DCA
agency                                                The construction delay and cost overrun (especially in civil works) may be
attributed to this technical noncompliance.
Shedule 4,      Strengthen the accounting and procurement sections of the PIR.   ImpIementation   Complied  N/A        N/A      Compliance fullfilled. The Unit hired a procurement officer as a specialist and
pr 2, (d)                                                                                    with                               was provided 2 supply officers by the MOE. For its accounting group, the Unit
acquired a finance officer; the asistant project accountant was provided by the
MOE.
Shedule 4,      The PIU shall, in consulation with relevant ministries including   Implementation   Complied  N/A     11/1985   Compliance fullfilled. The construction contractors were selected and the
para. 3         the MOW, select and nominate all consulting firns, draft TORs                with                               architectural designs for their works were provided to the IDA before Credit
and contracts, monitor and approve their work, assist in the                                                    negotiation. Throughout the implementation, the PIU kept regular contact with
preparation oftender documents in the opening of tenders, in                                                   the construction works either directly through field visits or (mainly) indirectly
tender analysis, in contrad awards, in supervision during                                                       through the Clerks of Works at the sites.
construction, and in approving certificates for payment
Table 10: page 3 of 3



Part II
Table 11
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD 10.60           Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state that as a minimum, financial reports should normally
Accounting,         comprise a statement of receipts and payments, as well as total project costs and sources of
Financial           financing, and that the supporting schedules of statements should disclose annual and
Reporting, and     supplemental budget allotments, actual expenditures under each budget category for
Auditing            which Bank financing is furnished, and the actual expenditures and amounts of Bank
disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover all accounts pertaining
OD 13.10           to project expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
Borrower
Compliance with     For Education VI, all audited financial statements should have covered the Special
Audit Covenants     Account, IDA funds, the Government Counterpart funds, and the opinions on Statement
of Expenditures by the auditors in support of withdrawal applications. Yet neither audit
reports for the Special Account nor the Government Counterpart Account have been filed,
and only occasionally were the auditors' opinions on the Statement of Expenditures
provided. Compliance with OD 10.60 and OD 13.10 has been only partiaL
OD 6.30            The Bank initially expected the Borrower to contribute 33 percent minimum (net of taxes
Local Cost          and duties) to the project to demonstrate its commitment. In exceptional cases, however,
Financing and Cost  such as strained government finances, the Bank allows lower borrower contribution.
Sharing             During the course of implementing the project, this percentage was lowered to 25 percent.
Current borrower's contribution of 19 percent of total incurred project cost falls
substantially below the level anticipated at appraisal. (When the Government will have
paid the additional 700 million Ksh to complete the project, its contribution rate would
become 43 percent, and the compliance will then be fully met.) SAR's expectations were,
however, optimistic, given the weak government financial position at the time of appraisal
and the weak performance of the economy during the 1980s. The shortfaU in the
Borrower contribution is to be considered only as a partial non-compliance with OD
6.30.
Table 11: page 1 of 2



Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (continued)
OD 11.00            In a memorandum dated March 5, 1993 the Bank mandated the use of standard bidding
Standard Bidding    documents (SBDs) for all international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement initiated
Components         under Bank's Loan and Credit Agreements negotiated after May 1, 1993. Since the loan
was negotiated before this date, this OD was not applicable.
OD 13.25            The Bank allows, on an exceptional basis, some or all of the project savings to be used to
Use of Project Cost  finance additional project activities not included in the original project description,
Savings             provided that implementation of the project is satisfactory (including substantial
compliance with the Agreements), the activities proposed have high priority and are
consistent with project objectives, and that they have been fully appraised by Bank staff,
and financing these activities does not violate country limits on cost sharing.
This project, although it did not realize any savings did benefit substantially from the
appreciation of the SDR (estimated at about US$ 11 million). These "savings" have been
used to cover completely the costs of playing fields omitted from the original design of the
project. The playing fields have proved to be too costly and not worth the value. In
addition, the project provided books to secondary schools, provided office renovation for
the PIU and the PU, and financed the costs of pipelines and landscaping. The project
closed, with a funding shortfall of US$15 million. OD 13.25, if applicable, has been
only_parlayfullflkd.
Table 11: page 2 of 2



Part II
Table 12
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..S""'.-."  ".'.........sg 
Seq.  it  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ... _ _...._ ...........
PruccC.e W. ..'OO W.k                                            V       ......     t#          WP
Preparation to Appraisal         N/P          N/P           N/P         N/P           94.8         284.4
Appraisal                        N/P         N/P            N/P         N/P           41.6          124.8
Negotiations through Board
Approval                         N/P         N/P            N/P         N/P            6.6           19.8
Supervision                      69.0       207.0           96.9       290.7         116.5         349.5
Completion                       N/P         N/P            11.0        33.0          15.0 *        45.0
..........................                                           ...........
Source: TRS run on 06/10/95 and and BRWPRSTF as of 07/94.
Memo:
Assumes average cost of US$3,000 per staff week
N/P stands for not provided
estimated



Part 11
Table 13
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
|.appraisal          ..  ...  . ......94.8      .___                 .__                                                                                        l
t  Appraisal to                           41 .6n.a.
appraisal  94.8                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.a.
Board      __  _ ___                              _ _  _ _ _ _  _   __ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _ _
Board to                                 6.6
Effectiveness
Supervision                     _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
educator, Supervisin                               the project is expected to become effective 02/27/87 once the
Oct, 86     3        14     6.0   educator, architect,         1               1       PIU has been strengthened in accordance with the DCA.
(1) the PIU will prepare detailed plans for specialist services
and fellowships: (2) the CV of the Director is to be sent to the
IDA as well as a list of the PIU professional staff.
(1) reorganization and strengthening of the PIU still in process;
(2) list of PIU professional staff to be sent to IDA; (3) change
May-       3       14      6.0   educators, architect         3               1       in the site for Voi and Garissa; (4) estimated costs well above
Jun. 87                                                                                appraisal estimate -no explanation could be given.
reluctance of the PIU to seek help regarding the processing of
Sep, 87     1        7       1.0         educator                                      fellowships from an external contracting institution.
(1) issues relating to the timeliness of counterpart funds; (2)
Nov, 87     1        10      2.0         educator              2               1       poor performance of the PIU in reviewing architectural designs.
project implementation is behind schedule becuase of (11
Apr, 88     1        11      2.0        educator               2               2       delayed counterpart funding, and (2) inadequate staffing of the
Sep. 88              8
Table 13: page 1 of 3



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Supervision  (continued)                                                                                                                                     _
(1) site survey inaccuracies were reported at Tambach and
Mokowe; (2) bad soil conditions at Barsaloi and Mokowe
Jan, 89     1        1       1.0        educator                                       necessitated redesign; (3) problems with water supply to some
sites; (4) Treasury has yet to agree on the special account.
(1) lack of provision in the DCA for payment under a special
account caused delay; (2) fellowship training delayed; (3i PIU
Jul, 89     1       10      2.0         educator              2               1        staff have not been paid for months; (4) re-siting of Voi and
Garissa; (5) estimates for PTTC buses and AZS furniture too
.__ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   lo w .
(1) delay in fellowship training and salary payment; (2) serious
Feb, 90     1       1 1     2.0         educator               2               1       delay in transmitting audit reports for 88 and 89; (3)
monitoring of educational elements of the project is weak.
(1) delay of over two years with recruitment of experts and
fellowrhip training; (2) delay in recruiting a computer expert in
Jul. 90     1       10      2.0         educator              2               2        the MOE; (3) weak monitoring of educational elements; (4)
audit reports overdue.
Oct, 90     1        7       1.0        educator
Nov-                                                                                 The GOK will make an official request to IDA for an extension
Dec,      1         7      1.0         architect                                     of the Credit to complete Voi and Garissa.
1991                     _                                                .
(1) the computerization study was stalled at CTB; (2) Taita
Taveta has yet to begin; (3) appointments of consultants to do
Apr, 92     1        7       1 .0        architect             1               1       topographical surveys of the sport fields delayed; (4)
submission of audit reports delayed.
(1) delay in the appointment of consultants to undertake the
MOE computerization study; (2) slow payments to contractors
Nov, 92     2        10      4.0   architect, educator                                 and suppliers; (3) slow action by KIE in settling some of the
training programs; (4) late submission of audit reports.
(1) appointment of consultants to undertake the MOE
computerization study; (2) KIE/PIU to process all remaining
Mar, 93     1        1       1.0         architect             1               2       training programs; (3) MOE to request a one-year extension to
l______   _______                     _______________                the  project to  June  30,  1994.
Table 13: page 2 of 3



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
I I F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                  .l ... .......... 
P*~~~~uet C~~~~~ei.   ~~~~~    shmwww  k~~~~~~~~hM  was*. ~~~~~~~~~dlts Aq~~~~~~~e.~~~wt.~~~~  tmioe~~~~~~it,do#  oo~~~~~~~~~m..  .. .. I4..n..  .
Supervision  (continued)
the GOK was to look into the question of excess capacity of
Apr, 93  1  1  1.0  architect            the teacher training system given the limitations on primary
Apr. 93     1        1      1.0         architect                                     teacher numbers agreed under EDSAC.
(1) appointment to undertake the MOE computerization study;
(2) PIU to take up the problem relating to requests by suppliers
Jun, 93     2       18      6.0   architect, educator                                for increases in prices to compensate for the Ksh devaluation;
(3) provide forecast number of teachers in the next 10 years.
(1) non receipt by the IDA of the 1991/2 audit report; (2) list
of all 22 PTTCs, their occupancy, and forecast of teacher
Oct, 93     2       14      4.0   architect, educator                                 requirements in the next decade; (3) PIU to supply list all its
,personnel to the Bank's disbursement division.
(1) slow disbursement from Treasury; (2) Most contractors
Feb, 94  3  1 1  6.0  economist,  2   1        and suppliers not paid for some time; (2) audited accounts for
architect, educator       2               1       1992/3 still to be finalized; (3) Garissa and Taita Taveta far
from being completed.
(1) project partially extended for the third time; (2) Taita
Oct, 94     2       15      4.0   architect, educator         u               s       Taveta and Garissa to be completed; (3) playing fields and
water supply subcontracts to be completed; (4) audit reports
for 93/94 to be transmitted.
(1) financing the funding shortfall by the GOK; (2) submission
of audit reports and an opinion on the SOE for 1992/93 and
Jan-Feb     4        15     8.0         architect,                                    1993/94; (3) Taita Taveta and Garissa yet to be completed;
95  economist, educator                  (4) water supply work incomplete at Baringo, Tambach, and
Garissa.
Compltion  May-       4         1     15.0        architect,
Completion u4,2151                           economist, educator
TabJn. 95 | 3 o 3
Table 13: page 3 of 3



Appendix A
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
(Cr. 1673-KE)
Implementation Completion Review Mission
I)raft Aide-Memoire
(June 2, 1995)
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission was in Kenya between May 17 to June 2, 1995 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Sixth Education Project. The mission comprised
Yang-Ro Yoon (task manager), Messrs. Nguyen X. Nguyen (economist), James Kamunge
(education specialist, Resident Mission/Nairobi) and Harry Potts (Implementation
Specialist/quantity surveyor, consultant) and Professor S. 0. Kwasa (economist, consultant). It
reviewed project documents, discussed with various institutions including the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and Ministry of Education (MOE), and met with most of the
contractors, consultants for the civil works. It also visited all the construction sites of seven
Primary Teachers Training Colleges (PTTC's) and three Arid Zone Schools (AZS's) under this
Project. The draft aide-memoire summarizes the mission's findings and the agreements made with
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Ministry of Education (MOE). This is subject to
the endorsement by the Bank Management. We gratefully acknowledge cooperation and
professional assistance rendered during the mission, in particular, by the PIU, MOE, consultants,
contractors, AZS's and PTTC's visited.
Achievement of Project Objectives
2.    The main ob%ctives of the project were to improve the equity and quality of Kenya's
education system an,' to promote institutional development through strengthening the Government's
capability to effecti .ly plan and manage educational expansion at all levels. To achieve these
objectives, the proje' was to: (a) construct seven new PTT C's -- Bondo, Muranga, Tambach,
Garissa, Narok, Taita Taveta and Baringo; (b) construct three new AZS's -- Konyao, Barsaloi and
Mokowe; (c) assist development of educational materials delivered by the Educational Media
Services; (d) assist curriculum development for secondary and technical education; (e) strengthen
the capacity of the Planning Unit (PU) of MOE and the Teachers Service Commission (TSC). The
project was complex due to geographic dispersion of civil works sites.
3.    Overall the project objectives were partially achieved and the specifics are the following:
Physical objectives were not fully achieved. Two PTTC's in Ga:issa and Taita Taveta are
not complete although three AZS's and five PTTC's have been practically completed and
operational.
Sector policy objectives were partially achieved. The increase of trained teachers through
both pre-service and in-service training in new PTTC's has contributed to the quality of
education. New AZS's have enhanced educational opportunities in remote disadvantaged
areas. However, student enrollment is very low in AZS's and facilities are underutilized
in both PTTC's and AZS's.



Financial objectives were not achieved. The current education share in recurrent
expenditures is about 41 percent, far above 30 percent cap at the time of appraisal. To
limit the impact of the additional trained teachers by new PTTC's on recurrent
expenditure, without sacrificing the quality of instruction, the Government had initially
decided to recruit 30 percent of all pre-service teacher trainees at the P3 level.
None of the new PTTC's will admit P3 level trainees from 1995 but at P1 level. This will
increase the share of salaries in the recurrent education expenditures. The PTTC's also
lack financial sustainability due to minimal cost recovery combined with declining
Govermnent grants.
Although this project demanded a study which would prepare detailed action plan to
increase cost-effectiveness of teacher education including cost recovery measures, the study
was not done and the IDA did not insist on it.
Institutional development objectives were partially achieved. The provision of
equipment, specialist services and training helped strengthen the capacity of the PU, TSC
and KIE to plan and implement eda.cation policy effectively.
Poverty reduction objectives were partially achieved. To ensure equitable distribution of
qualified teachers, the Government recruits teacher trainees on a geographically equitable
basis and assign trained teachers to their district of origin. This policy certainly has
positive impact on poverty reduction through the provision of quality education in
economically deprived areas. However, this project's great potential to reduce poverty
through the development of human resources has not been fully realized due to under-
utilization of facilities and low enrollment in AZS's as mentioned above. The AZS's and
PTTC's have not also served as community centers contrary to original plan.
Implementation Record
4.     The project was initially expected to cost US$ 56.06 million, of which IDA was to finance
US$ 37.5 million. The appreciation of US dollars against the SDR in 1992 increased the proceeds
of the credit to US$ 48.5 million. To utilize this windfall, playing fields and landscaping were
added to initial civil works design. While the IDA fund has been completely disbursed before the
closing date, April 30, 1995, there is enormous cost over-run. The GOK should settle the incurred
debt of US$ 11.3 million to contractors and consultants apart from US$ 14.7 million it has
disbursed so far. The GOK requires additional four million US dollars to complete civil works.
The GOK should prepare action plan to meet this financial demand.
5.     The civil works costs have been escalated for the following reasons: inclusion of additional
works such as water, playing fields and landscaping; .pecification of larger and more elaborate
buildings than the original plan; site changes in Garissa caused by heavy rain (the cost of phase 1
more than quadrupled the appraised price); selection of some of the sites; and delay in payment
leading to extra costs for contract, interest on the late payment and extra fluctuation in material
cost; high inflation; and sharp increase in imported goods and services to Africa caused by Gulf
War and other world economic conditions.
6.     Overall the credit was extended three times by a total of 2.5 years. Civil works' delays
contribute a large part to the overall delay, despite an early kickstart in design financed under the
Fifth Education Credit. Five PTTC's and three AZS's have been practically complete for a



number of years although minor works remain (usually making good defects, water supply and
landscaping) which could probably be completed within a few months. The contractors for the two
remaining PTTC's (Garissa and Taita Taveta) claim that they could finish in 4 and 7 months
respectively. However all these forecasts are dependent on sufficient cash flow.
7.    The delay in civil works in Garissa was mainly caused by the shift of the original site
while Taita Taveta was due to unmet conditionalities in the selection of the site. In addition,
contractors and consultants were unanimous in their opinion that the delays were mostly due to late
payments. Late payments were caused occasionally by inconsistency of the payment process but
more generally by official procedures, in particular failure to provide adequate budgetary
provisions and cash liquidity shortages. For example, even after the establishment of the Special
Account, it usually took on average six months from the time the PIU received the bills from
contractors to the time the payments were disbursed from the Central Bank. Toward the end of the
project, many contractors and suppliers did not receive payments for months (even for three years
in one instance.)
Efficiency, Effectiveness and Sustainability
8.    AZS's. All of the three AZS's are severely underutilized. While they were built to teach
and board 400 students, none are being used to full capacity: current enrollment is 139 (52 girls
and 87 boys) in Mokowe, 164 (97 boys and 67 girls) in Barsaloi and 227 (134 boys and 93 girls)
in Konyao. The utilization ratio of boarding facilities are even lower since Mokowe and Barsaloi
admit day students although Konyao admits boarders only. In Barsaloi, only 59 students are
boarders, meaning that about 14 percent of facilities have been used. In Mokowe, very few day
students are allowed due to local insistence on boarders only policy.
9.     Although boarding can be crucial for nomadic students's enrollment as seen in Konyao, it
may have unexpected adverse impact, when the selection of the site is not properly done. Due to
parents' reluctance to send young children to boarding school and local intervention, Mokowe
offers only four classes, grade 5 to 8. This best equipped school is underutilized while other day
schools are overcrowded with 70 to 80 students. Parents of Barsaloi share the same sentiments and
most of them enroll young children as day students. For the poor, boarding fees of Ksh 400 to
600 p.a. at Barsaloi and Konyao, and Ksh 3,000 at Mokowe play as a deterrent to student's
enrollment.
10.   The financial resources for these AZS's come from government grants, student fees,
community contributions and income generating activities using facilities and equipment such as a
tractor. They all go through serious shortage of funds and therefore maintenance is given low
priority. Given the poor workmanship of construction and inappropriate design of facilities such
as solar lighting, maintenance may be troublesome in the future. Overall, active measures should
be explored to increase enrollment though recurrent cost financing (see Future Project Operations
for detailed discussion).
11.   PTTC's. The enrollments in the five PTTC's are consistent with the planned capacity.
There is little wastage: completion rate is almost 100 percent; most of them pass examinations and
are placed as teachers. However, some facilities are severely underutilized. The Schedules of
Accommodation showed overall Room Use Factors of 89% and 84% for the 720- and 480-
enrolment colleges respectively. However these were based on class size of 30 students. This
number is now 40, and the overall Use Factors are now reduced to 60% and 57% respectively.
This factor accounts for the wrong or under utilization of rooms, especially special purpose rooms,
which is self evident when touring the PTTC's.



12.   The ramifications of this change in class size are immense. It means that the credit could
have provided 25% less college places - a saving of 1020 spaces for two of the smaller PTTC's.
Alternatively, for the future it should be remembered that teaching areas and staff housing are
adequate for a one third increase in enrolment. Simple dormitory expansion (and a change to
dining arrangements in shifts) will allow an extra enrolment of 1360 - more for two of the larger
PTTC's.
13.   Site selection has lacked objectivity in a number of cases. Distance from amenities (water,
power, transport) has caused additional expense and will be a continuing inconvenience. Three
PTTC's (Taita Taveta, Baringo and Tambach) are on steeply sloping sites incurring millions of
dollars in extra foundation work and particularly site levelling for playing fields. Selection, de-
selection and re-selection of sites has incurred extra design fee costs. Little attention has been paid
to the SAR consideration of convenient demonstration schools for practice teaching, and changes in
location of sites has meant that the SAR objective "to maintain reasonable unit costs" has been lost
in some cases.
14.    Similarly to the AZS's, the PTTC's financial sources are government grants, student fees,
community contributions and income generating activities. Under the current situations, the
PTTC's are not financially sustainable and maintenance is given low priority. In fact, they have
been running on the deficits and their debts are accumulating every year. While Students pay
about Ksh 15,000 for two year education, their contribution of about Ksh 6,000 to boarding covers
only 50-60 percent of their food costs. Cost recovery measures are urgently needed. For
comparison, students in Technical Training Institutes (TTI's) and Institutes of Technology (IT's)
with similar background pay about Ksh 30,000 to 36,000 for two year training, while their starting
wages as civil servants are similar (although most of them go to the Jua Kali sector). PTTC's
should move away from dependency syndrome, have ownership of institutions and be given more
responsibility to make decisions in finance and management (see Future Project Operations for
detailed discussion).
Borrower Performance
15.   Preparation was effective with clearly defined objectives esptcially in respect of needs
created by introduction of the 8-4-4 system. hIplementation was deficient in some significant
respects.
While the PIU received more technical assistance, fellowship and training than originally
planned, PIU did not develop technical managerial capacity as appraised, resulting in cost
overruns, time delays and the accumulation of multi-million dollar commitments which will
strain the resources of GOK.
Treasury budgetary procedures and occasi^nal inccr istency resulted in dela)y -d ini!ctly
attribuzb!c costs such as extensions of oven,zad co. s, interest on late payments and higher
fluctuations costs.
MOE failed to complete measures to plan, implement and monitor increased cost-
effectiveness of education.
Covenant compliance, was only partially satisfactory, the most significant weakness being
the consistent pattem of delays in audit reports.



Operation will continue to pose problems, not necessarily specific to the credit, but in the
general context of continuing recurrent expenditure problems and the failure to address
them as provided in the Credit.
Bank Performance
16.   Identification and preparation assistance were effective, but appraisal was inconsistent in
several respects.
There was recommendation for boarding at AZS's, but the requirement for 100%boarding
was not justified and no measures were taken to alleviate the costs of boarding.
Budget overruns were resolved by the transfer of water and landscaping out of the credit,
but no realistic alternative measures were appraised.
Specific DCA conditions to ensure counterpart funding were removed by GOK during
negotiations, with no effective substitutes other than loose generalities.
The Bank's overly optimistic view failed to take into account GOK's inability to provide
counterpart funds.
Mid-term review was not undertaken. It would have assisted in more coherent
restructuring of the project.
Inadequate time was provided for supervision, as evidenced by civil works design, cost and
time overruns, lack of counterpart funds, late payments and in particular measures to plan,
implement and monitor increased cost-effectiveness of education.
Key Lessons Learned
17.   Equity for disadvantaged children in arid zones requires more than construction of
boarding schools. The problem needs to be addressed in very specific ways including finding
solutiolns to funding issues. Quality can be improved by provision of more trained teachers, but:
the provision of the physical infrastructure should be better managed in order to achieve
appraised targets, and;
failure to achieve quality targets will continue until policies controlling recurrent costs at
all levels of education are established and carried out.



Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
. .......... ... . ...,.'...,,~~   . . '....   ..........-.....-    .........,........,............................  .........
...................... . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~...    .....
Complete the project; this involves   The funding shortfall after Credit closing has been  *   A decision by the Government to finance the funding shortfall is urgently needed to avoid
finishing all civil works -in      assessed at around 700 million Kenya shillings. This      disruption to the work under process and to complete the remaining part of the project.
particular, Garissa and Taita      amount was required to complete the civil works           The MOE has requested the Treasury to make available additional funding to complete the
Taveta- and settling all claims for    contracts at Garissa and Taita Taveta and other water  project. The Ministry, however, with consultation with beneficiaries, will prioritize the
contractors, professional services,   supply and landscaping subcontracts, and to settle all  additional works in order to minimnize the risk of cost over-run. This includes, for instance,
and suppliers for the project.     debts returned by the Bank after the depletion of the     finishing the buildings before the playing fields.
Credit.                                              *   The Government will prepare a financial and prioritization plan for completing the project.
The plan will include monitoring measures.
The AZS's need to be both          *   All of the schools remain underutilized. These   *   Explore measures to provide incentives to the schools to increase boarding enrollment for
financially sustainable and             schools were built to provide training and          the nomadic population. In addition, the schools should also make evry effort to increase
efficiently utilized. This involves     boarding for 320400 students, yet, none are          enrollment of day students.
appropriate maintenance, some           being used to full capacity. Added efforts to   *   Explore measures to sustain the operation of the AZS's through recurrent cost financing.
cost recovery measures, and             increase utilization is needed.                 *   Target the poor by providing such incentives as food programs, etc.
increased enrollment and           *   Every attempt should be made to ensure           *   Increase the use of the school facilities for community activities such as village meetings,
utilization.                            maximum enrollment from the nomadic                  ceremonies, and other special events.
population for which these schools were intended   *   The schools can also be used for adult education, in particular, basic literacy tutoring or
for. In addition, efforts to admit day students in   agricultural training.
the case of insufficient enrollment should also be   *   Machineries and equipments provided to the schools through the project can also be rented
encouraged.                                          out for community used. In Barsaloi, the school tractor has been rented to the community.
*   The limited ability of students of nomadic       *   A certain number of schools can also be put into such use that would bring about the most
population to pay boarding fees and the lack of      social benefits such as incorporating secondary level classes or even converting the school
feeding programs prevent school enrollment.          into a secondary school.
*   The use of the schools as community centers has    *   The AZSs should be given more flexibility in terms of conducting enrollment and
been limited.                                        financing policies.
*   Elaborate and expansive design increases the     *   Consultants be engaged to prepare maintenance manuals for the physical infrastructure of
pressure on sustainability and recurrent             the schools.
expenditures.



Key Indicators for Future Project Operations (continued)
The PTC's need to be both        * Under the cunrent situation, the colleges are not    *   The PTcS should have the flexibility to charge fees to recover the costs of training and
fintancially sustainable and         financially sustainable. In fact, the colleges have  boarding for both pre-service and in-service training.
efficiently utilized. This includes  been rnmning on deficits and their debts are  *   To ensure that poor students are not left out of the system, financial aid should be made
appropriate maintenance, cost        accumulating every year. Government grants and    available through means-testing.
recovery capability, and increased   student fees, set by the Government are       *   Cost recovery measures and accompanying steps to ensure equity and access to the poor
enrollment and utilization.          insufficient.                                     would be explored under the studies sponsored by the Cost and Financing of Education
Cost recovery measures are urgently needed.      Project.
Students pay too little even as compared to what   *   The colleges should also be given the incentives to generate extra incomes for programs
they would have paid in secondary schools. On    they administer during the breaks such early chilhood development, adult literacy
average, students at the PTTCs only pay about    programs, etc.
50-60% of their food costs.                  *   The colleges should have the flexibility and incentives to compete for in-service trainees.
*   Most colleges are too dependent on Government   *   The colleges should also be encouraged to undertake other activities to generate income
grants to take any income generating initiatives.  such as renting out facilities and equipments, etc.
This is partly due to their lack of flexibility in  *   Consultants be engaged to prepare maintenance manuals for the physical infrastructure of
detemining how much they can charge for          the colleges.
various services such as teacher training, early  *   The management capacity of the administrators and educational managers should be
childhood development programs, adult literacy    strengthened, especially, in terms of financial management. The facilities of these colleges
programs, etc.                                   can be used for such purposes.
* Utilization of the colleges for in-service training
(the 3-year in-service training and the training of
pre-school teachers taken during the breaks or
holidays) is low. The Govenment set the
number of in-service trainees at about 3,000 UTs
per batch, and only a few colleges are being used
for pre-school teachers training.
* Elaborate and expansive (23% larger than
appraised area) design increases pressure on
sustainability and recurrent expenditures.



20-JUN.'95(TUE) 08:05  WORLD BANK (F.O)       FAX:254 2 720652   AppendixB  P. 002
Borrower's Project Completion Report
SIXTH WORLD EahI ZDucALTION PROJECT - csNDZv 1673 ]M-
The Development Credit Agreement for the Six Education
Project was signed between the World Bank and the Government of
Kenya in July 1986, and became effective in february 1987. Its
major objectives were to improve upon the quality and equity in
education, by providing additional training facilities for
primary   school   teachers,   curriculum   development   for
Secondary/Technical Education and to increase the capacity to
deliver Educational Media and Institutional development through
strengthening the Government capacity to plan and manage the
Education sector.
In primary Teacher Training and the Arid Zone Primary
Schools, all the originally appraised physical facilities were
realised within the original Credit period (i.e prior to 30th
June, 1992). Only two PTTCu were delayed.
A total cf 1560 new teachers have been graduated annually
in the years 1993, 1994 and the third graduation due by July,
1995. With the completion of the two outstanding colleges, the
overall turnover will increase to 2040 new teachers from the
colleges developed under this Project.
Towards the improvement of equity in Education, three Arid
Zone Primary Schools with a capacity of 960 were built and
equipped. However the recorded enrolment capacity by June 1995,
in all the three schools was 530 pupils.   The Government is
making efforts to sensitise the local communities to allow their
children to join the schools.
ii



It is expected that the targeted capacity pf the schools will be
realised within the next 2 to 4 years.
Under the secondary and Technical Education Programme
(SEP/TEP), curriculum programmes were prepared as a follow up to
the introduction of the 8:4:4 System of Education in the country.
These were fully implemented within the Credit period.
In addition to the above, 162 secondary schools in ASAL
areas were supplied with text books for key subjects.
Due to the Governments inability to provide funds for
auxiliary facilities like electricity, water and sports fields,
in the new PTTCs/AZPS, a review of the DCA was made in August
1991 followed by re-allocation of funds in December 1991 to meet
the cost of these facilities.
Work on the same, commenced in February 1993, but the
following are yet to be completed; water supply in 1 of 7 PTTCS,
landscaping in 5 of 7, and main civil works in 2 of 7 PTTC5. All
additional facilities for AZPS were completed within the Credit
Period.   In order to ease the Government's burden in raising
counterpart funds from local resources, a review of disbursement
percentages waB made in 1992.
At the time of closing the DCA, on 31st December 1994, the
Credit funds had been utilimed to procure more facilities than
originally appraised in 1985. This was inspite of the general
depreciation of the Xenya Shilling against the SDR and other hard
currencies, major devaluation of the same, and-the effects of the
liberalization of our economy within the last two years, which
resulted into increased costs of the Project components.
iii



By the last date of disbursement, commitments worth
Us $15.3m (equivalent to KSho.706.Om.) were left unsettled
following the depletion of Credit funds.
While these commitments have become the responsibility of
the borrower (Kenya Government) to be funded from the local
resources, the same is unlikely to be realised within the current
contract period due to prevailing budgetary constraints.
It is equally important to note that lack of use of the
facilities by the institutions if their completion is delayed
further, will result in very high rate of depreciation,
notwithstanding the consequential claims which may be accrued due
to delayed payment of the contractors.
In order to achieve the full realisation of the Project
objectives (in terms of physical facilities) we recommend that
the World Bank should avail a quick disbursement facility to the
Government, and particularly under Credit 2309 - xE (Universities
Investment Project), in order to settle these outstanding
commitments.
We are positive that overall completion of the outstanding
works would be realised within seven months from the date the
funds become available.
*  Exchange rate used XShs.41.00 to . US $
iv



Appendix C
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Appendix C
Corinancier Contribution to ICR
Not Applicable - there were no cofinanciers for the Project



ADpendix D
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Comments on Quality of Design and Construction
General Comments
1.    Double or multi-story buildings require more expensive reinforced concrete frames, staircases and
foundation work than single-story buildings. There may also be maintenance implications bearing on
future costs. The construction skills needed are rare, relative to the general level of skills available.
2.     For PTTC dormitories, Garissa and Taita Taveta are examples of appropriate design for the end-
use in keeping with local environment and climatic conditions. Other PTTCs did not show the same close
match.
3.     The condition of the ablution facilities was generally poor because of damage or careless use.
Separate ablution blocks designed for robust use with little water and easy cleaning and maintenance would
be more appropriate for PTTCs and AZSs. In fact some AZS facilities have never been used as originally
designed. Water supply is the critical restraint.
4.     Given that the kitchens as designed could not be used as intended (equipment delivered late, parts
missing, delivered but not connected, no money for buying gas) it would have been more effective to
construct separate, fuel-efficient firewood kitchens from the beginning or at least as soon as it became
evident that the planned kitchens were impracticable.
5.     The lockers provided for PTTCs and AZSs have not proved useful. Most remain unused; many
are damaged or broken. Over-provision (and the administrative change to the home room system) have
rendered the lockers redundant.
6.     The need for elaborate and large-scale assembly halls for PTTCs is far from demonstrated. For
most purposes the dining halls would serve just as well. The rare public ceremonial functions (such as the
commencement of a PTTC or AZS) could be held in the open air. In rainy weather the dining halls could
be used.
Specific Comments
Muran'ga and Narok P1TCs- Triad Architects
7.    The entrances designed by this group were courtyards with administration, assembly and library
arranged around. The library was elaborate. There was a natural progression to clusters of teaching areas
leading to dormitory areas. In operation, classrooms were used as stores and laboratories were under-used.
The sports pavilions at Muran'ga and Narok did not meet the requirements of modesty and economy. The
details were well executed and there were no apparent construction failures. To protect sensitive
stores/libraries, the college authorities had felt it necessary to strengthen security by means of burglar bars.



Garissa and Taita Taveta PTTCs - NPotho Architects
8.    This group largely adopted the same principles of arrangement as Triad. Their design, however,
lacked provision for the semi-arid environment. There was no sun protection for windows, the design
called for three-story dormitories (in the midst of millions of acres of semi-desert) provided a stifling
central courtyard, gave the assembly hall only average cross-ventilation (supplemented by electric fans),
and gave the dining hall windows on one side only. The groups of buildings are far apart linked by
hundreds of meters of covered walkways. The steep site at Taita Taveta produced some unusual details.
Construction was nearly finished at Garissa and on-going at Taita Taveta. Construction details at both
colleges were good; the quality of workmanship at Taita was good. There were serious cracking problems
at Garissa: this is believed to be caused by inadequate foundations which go down to sand.
Baringo, Tambach and Bondo PTTCs- Harbans Singh and Associates
9.     Room layout and structure seem to have been designed separately. Fenestration was carried
vertically over a floor and an up-standing wall, leaving a gap which gradually filled with rubbish and was
impossible to clean or paint. Buildings were arranged at odd angles leading to expensive structures or
difficult roof junctions. At one point the ceiling was only 1 .5m (5 ft.) above the floor. Window frames
were placed inside instead of over wall plaster - raim penetrates the wall and causes efflorescence. Roof
flashings were in cement instead of sheet zinc - the result was more rain penetration. Dormitory top floors
had windows arranged so that beds were next to opening casements. At Bondo, the contractor placed roof
tiles so badly that leaking was prevalent rather than occasional. The designer's response to the site at
Tambach was to stick with his plan and adjust the elevation - resulting in 5-story dormitories with their
attendant maintenance problems. In Bondo, bat proofing details have failed and the college is infested with
bats to a nauseous degree
Arid Zone Schools - Plan Systems Services
10.   Apart from failure to meet floor area requirements, these designs were generally satisfactory. Steel
windows and roof sheets are corroding at Mokowe (at the coast), but this is a maintenance rather than a
design problem. Considering the remoteness of sites (especially Barsaloi and Konyao) the build quality is
good. Some external details (footpaths, building surrounds) are beginning to fail but maintenance is the
problem. The supply of solar lighting, outside this architect's brief, has created problems, of maintenance
related to batteries. Paraffin lamps may, after all, be more appropriate and sustainable.



Part 11
Appendix 1
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Appendix 1: Costs of Construction Works (QVI 'b'sh,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa pr  X-ieerN
... ..*.*. .:.:.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ..    .                              .   ......   ...  ...
Primary Teachers Training Colleges (PTTCs)
Baringo (Moi)      480         43611       65014      98405         10            49            51       201790      18121     +L+W
Bondo              720         59544       85326    138500          34            43            62       175200      11835         +L
Garissa            480         51958       66447    234595         249            28           253       338897      30433     +L+W
Muranga            720         59544       86178    106655          10            45            24       149615      10106         +L
Narok              480         38666       66864      86707         10            73            30       298458      26801     +L+W
Tambach            720         62911       85706    140172          54            36            64       228983      15468    +L+W
Taita Taveta       480         44141      189293    289421          48           329            53       321983      28914        +W
Average            583         51482       92118    156351          59            86            77       244989      20240
Arid Zone Schools (AZSs)
Barsaloi           400          9152       15095      26089          5            65            73        26089      10292
Konyao             400         10130       14073      14244          5            39             1        26590      10489        +W
Mokowe             400         11254       10971      16974          5            -3            55        16974       6696
Average            400         10179       13380      19102          5            34            43        23218       9159
Notes:
(1)            The total price is likely to be underestimated because it uses 1993 estimates for landscaping and water works
(2)            L = landscaping; W = waterworks
Sources: SAR, Working Papers, and PIU



Part II
Appendix 2
Kenya
Sixth Education Project
Appendix 2: Costs of Construction Works (000 US$)
* . ........*...........    *...~>  :.~.:.:.~.:.:.AppraIuid  Co~tti~t  E$na  *w~o~u)  C~taet/  E......0.0..$.   pe.....w.r....
Primnary Teachers Training Colleges (PITTCs)
Baringo(Moi)      480          2726        3663       4068        10            34            11         5704       512    +L+W
Bondo             720          3722        4807       5726        34            29            19        4952        335         +L
Garissa           480          3247        3743       9698       249            15           159         9579       860    +L+W
Muranga           720          3722        4855       4409         10           30            -9         4229       286         +L
Narok             480          2417        3767       3584        10            56            -5         8436       758    +L+W
Tambach           720          3932        4829       5795        54            23            20         6472       437    +L+W
Taita Taveta      480          2759       10664      11964        48           287            12         9101       817        +W
Average           583          3218        5190       6463        59            68            30         6925       572
Arid Zone Schools (AZSs)                                                                              (3)
Barsaloi          400           572         850       1079         5            49            27         1079       425
Konyao            400           633         793        589          5           25           -26         1099       434        +W
Mokowe            400           703         618        702         5           -12            14          702       277
Average           400           636         754        790          5           21             5          960       379
Notes:
(1)            The total price is likely to be underestimated because it uses 1993 estimates for landscaping and water works
(2)            L = landscaping; W = waterworks
(3)            Average exchange rate 1986-91, US$ 1 = KES 24.19 is used since all the payment is made during this period.
Sources: SAR, Working Papers, and PIU



Part II
Appendix 3
Appendix 3: Comparison of Planned and Actual Floor Areas.
Item                         Area m2       Increase %
Planned for 720 PTTC         14,645
Planned for 480 PTTC         10,091
Planned for Arid Zone School  2,535
Ngotho Architects
Garissa (480)                18,057        79%
Taita Taveta (480)            14,809       47%
Triad Architects
Muran'ga (720)                16,143       10%
Narok (480)                   11,250        11%
Harbans Singh Associates
Baringo (480)                 10,800        7%
Tanbach (720)                 15,367        5%
Bondo (720)                   15,552        6%
Planning Systems
Each AZS @                     3,779       49%
Total planned gross area     91,904
Total built area              113,315
Increase in total area                     23%



Part II
Kenya                Appendix 4
Sixth Education Project
Annex 4: Equipment for KIE, MEST PU, and TSC
Education Media Support
'Education Media Service
Film dubbing and Library equipment             235116        1783760          659
Video editing                                    81171        606202          647
1 inch format VTR                              139950         151010            8
Data processing equipment                        6033          57917          860
Video dubbing equipment                         113080        353917          213
Printing equipment                                   0        400237
Subtotal                                       575350        3353043          483
Learning Resource Centers
Measuring equipment                             105740        188579           78
Additional video equipment                      143060        226820           59
Subtotal                                       248800         415398           67
Curriculum Development
Vehicles
3 long-wheel base, 4-wheel drives               111960         83833          -25    2 vehicles for KIE
3 mini vans                                      70908          7560          -89    1 van
I micro bus                                     43540          18565          -57     1 bus
Pickup truck                                         0          6230                  1 I pickup truck
Subtotal                                       226408         116188          -49
Office Eouiyment
1 12 stage collator                               1866             0
8 stencil duplicators                           44784              0
10 electric typewriters                         22392              0
10 drafting boards                               7464              0
2 stencil cutters                                 1866             0
Subtotal                                         78372             0
MEST Planning
3 passenger vehicles                             93300        101925            9
Office equipment                                  6220         23918          285            2 computers
Subtotal                                         99520        125843           26        & 10ype writers
Teachers Service Cormission
Computers, equipment, and installation           90344         57528           -36      5 PCs, I laser and
Microfilm camera, reader and equipment           34832             0          -100    4 dot matrix printers
Subtotal                                        125176         57528           -54
Total                                          1353626       4068000          201
Notes:  /1 the appraised value in 1985 prices was updated to 1995 by an average imported unit values.
multiplier of 1.244 for Africa.
/2 the disbursement weighted average exchange rate used is 41 KSH per USS. Vehicles were
purchased in 12/1990 when the exchange rate was 23.4 Ksh per dollar.
Sources: SAR, Working Papers, K7E, MEST, and PI



IBRD 27180
SUDAN                                                                                          KENYA
T. K.p.eb  ~                     \->_}EDUCATION VI PROJECT
ARID ZONE                    PRIMARY TEACHER
PRIMARY SCHOOLS         0   TRAINING COLLEGES
T!hK,\NA                                                                      To Add s Aob
A   RIFT    -
RIFT -/ALLE                               EASTERN                                 t
vALLEY /   LODWAR                   ,            .
D                                                             MARW0T~~~~ -O WA
/                                                       R  T
K TALE V                            .   r.,.
*,n KbrALE'>   t     A                       "R.                                                       r
o    JNGDM
iN>AS~~~A EDA    ) /\Sl                                                                                                                                    I-X
\   R IFT         L *NAROI  ACAK                tTU AI&IPIA
To To'ime   \       8                  )                                                 *              'Nf                       ATo
BOND AiOu                          4~R
,*\~4KISUMUt,                         3       UA           0L0,tA1-19K -  9              -         .A EAR                          z
NYA  Ao~~~~~~~NYN
0        IAAJORKTOWNS                                *                                                               G .SA
DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS IVCALH                                                        ,
(9   NATIONAL CAPITAL                  &o       > KAJIAD\                                                   '  
MfAAN ROADS                                           *               ->\'              \        - 
To Arusho                                      \        
NATIONAL A RPORTS                                                                            7 N
*         INTERNATIONAL A RPORTS                                                      K,TJ
___. ...--DISTRICT BOUNDARIES            1  oArsr}i     SDNh-
-i)   -      --SUB.DISTRICT  BOUNDARIES \   _. ELA
NATIONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 5  
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o        50      100      150      2Dd0K lomele           .                    ARI L 
INTERNAT ONAL AOUNDARIES                                                         VoI  l                              ANDA 
D IS T00 T BO RRLNDI
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                      D,To                                       TANZANIA
shomn on this mop do not Imply, on the port of The World Bankr
Group, any udgment on the legal status of any territory, or anly                                                                               A     > 
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                   JUN  1995A  
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN So995R c









;   A,   ri      -I:                       -
Ty--:         . I--                       -
A.    T ,    FN -



