Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAK. /G 73-KSc
Report No. 5864-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOPT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 23, 1985
Education & Manpower Development Division
Eastern & Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Shilling (KSh)          -       Currency Unit
Kenya Pound (K£)                 KSh 20
US$ 1.00                 -       KSh 16
-US$ 0.0625              -       KSh 1
US$ 1.25                 -       K   1.00
US$ 1.00                 -       SDR 0.93314
US$ 1.07165              -       SDR 1.00
UNITS OF MEASURE
(Metric)
GEOGRAPHICAL SUBDIVISIONS AND OFFICERS IN CHARGE
Province (8)             (Provincial Commissioner)
District (41)            (District Commissioner)
Division                 (District Officer)
Location                 (Chief)
SCHOOL YEAR
Primary, Secondary, Polytechnic                 January - December
Teacher Training                                May - March
University                                      October - June
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF         - African Development Fund
A-level      - Advanced secondary school qualification
EMS          - Educational Media Service (at KIE)
Form         - Grade of secondary school
Harambee
school     - Community established and operated school
JP           - Junior polytechnic (formerly VP)
KIE          - Kenya Institute of Education
KSES         - Kenya School Equipment Scheme
KJC          - Kenyatta University College
HEST         - Ministry of Education, Science and Tecbnology
HOW          - Ministry of Works
NCEOP        - National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies
0-level      - Ordinary secondary school qualification
PCR          - Project Completion Report
PIU          - Project Implementation Unit
PPAR         - Project Performance Audit Report
PTTC         - Primary teacher training college
Standard     - Grade of primary school
TSC          - Teachers Service Commission
VP           - Village polytechnic (nov JP)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BASIC DATA
I.  DEVELOPMENT cOmEXn
Socio-Economic Setting ........................................1
Development Objectives ............. 2
Manpower and Employment  ....       ...................................  2
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview  ....................................                         3
Government Policies for Education  ................                    4
Structure of the Education System  ................                    4
Operational Description of the Education System  ............     ...  5
Female Participation in Education           .................          9
Management and Finance  .................................  9
The Role of the Bank Group in Education Development  .... ....... 10
III.THE PROJECT
Objectives  .................................................... 13
Primary Education  . ............................................ 13
Secondary and Technical Education  .......        ...................... 15
Institutional Development  ..........       ........................... 16
Summary of Technical Assistance  ........        ....................... 17
Environmental Impact  ..............      ............................ 17
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost ................................................... 17
Financial Plan ................................................. 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in April and May 1985. The mission consisted of Messrs. R.M.
Durstine (Sr. Educator, Mission Leader), M. Giuseppi (Architect) and R.
Sack (Economist, Consultant).
ThiS docUMt haS a resticed disltiution sad may be used by recrpits only in the perform  of
Ith  ofciur duis. Its conents may no otherw   be dised wout Wodd lnk authio



V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation     .......................................  .21
Procurement       .......................................  24
Disbursements      .......................................  25
Auditing .......................................  26
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits     .............................................  26
Risks .     .............................................  27
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS  ............... .......  27
ANNEXES
Annex I - Education Tables and Charts
Table 1. Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Primary Education Enrollments, 1964-1984
3. Secondary Education Enrollments (Including Private and Harambee
Schools), 1964-1984
4. Primary Education, Rates of Pupil Progression, 1975-1983
5. Primary Education Enrollments by Province, 1984
6. Primary Education, Teachers by Level of Qualification, 1984
7. Primary Teacher Training Colleges, 1975-1984
8. Projection of Deficit of Trained Teachers, 1986-2000
9. University of Nairobi, Enrollments by Subject Area, 1983/84
10.  Estimated Recurrent Expenditures on Education and Training in
Ministries Other Than MEST, 1984/85
11. Gross Domestic Product, Government Expenditure and Education
Expenditure, 1980/81-1987/88
12. Expenditures of Ministry of Education, Science and Technology,
1980/81-1983/84
Chart 1. Structure of the Formal Education System
2. Education Enrollment Pyramid, 1984
3. Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Organization Chart
ANNEX II - Project Costs and Schedules
Table 1. Project Cost by Component
2. Project Cost by Category
3. Project Cost by Component and Category
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Summary Accounts by Year
6. Indicators of Project Implementation
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (in US$ 000's)
8. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (in SDR 000's)
ANNEX III - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP No. IBRD 19359



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Kenya.
Amount:                SDR 35.0 million (US$37.5 million equivalent).
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (NEST).
Terms:                 Standard.
Project Description:  The main objectives of the project are to improve the
equity and quality of Kenyass educational system and
to promote institutional development in the education
sector. The project would provide (i) seven new
primary teacher training colleges, (ii) three new
arid zone primary schools, (iii) equipment,
specialist services, and training for the development
of educational materials for delivery by mass media,
(iv) assistance for the preparation and testing of
new curricular materials for secondary and technical
education, (v) assistance for the Planning Unit of
MEST, and (vi) computer and microfilm equipment for
the Teachers Service Commission.
Benefit3:             a)  Improved quality of: i) primary education by the
provision of additional teacher training
facilities and equipment for educational
broadcasting, and ii) secondary, secondary
teacher and technical education by support of
curriculum development.
b) Increased equity through provision of boarding
primary schools in remote and deprived areas.
c) Improved planning and project implementation
capacity in the education sector.
Risks:                 High and increasing recurrent costs in the education
sector are a cause of continuing concern. The
Government is taking steps satisfactory to IDA to
bring those costs under control.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local        Foreign       Total
US$ millions
Primary Education
Primary Teacher Training                17.53          9.56      27.09
Arid Zone Schtools                       1.54          1.00       2.54
Education Media Support                  0.32          1.05       1.37
19.39        11.61      31.00
Secondary and Technical Education
Curriculum Development                   1.99          2.41       4.40
Institutional Development
Ministry Planning Unit                   0.12          0.24       0.36
Teachers Service Commission              0.02          0.09       0.11
0.14         0.33       0.47
Professional Services                         1.36         1.05       2.41
Project Administration                       1.29          1.05       2.34
Total Baseline Cost                     24.17         16.45      40.62
Physical Contingencies                   1.93          1.00       2.93
Price Contingencies                      7.95          4.56      12.51
9.88         5.56      15.44
Total Project Cost                      34.05a/       22.01      56.06a/
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)      X of Total
Local    Foreign    Total       Financing
Government of Kenya           18.56        -        18.56         33
IDA                           15.49      22.01      37.50         67
Total                     34.05a/    22.01      56.06a/      100
-     _
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$6.30 million equivalent.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
-- - -(US$ million equivalent)-----
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
Annual                              4.1    8.0    8.4    7.4    6.3    3.3
Cumulative                          4.1   12.1   20.5   27.9   34.2   37.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.



KENYA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
GENERAL
Area                                                           569,249 sq. km.
Population (1985 estimated)                                     20.3 million
-  Rural                                                    17.3 million (85%)
-  Urban                                                     2.8 million (15%)
Population Growth Rate (1969-79)                                 3.8Z p.a.
Employment (1983)                                                1.3 million
Modern Sector                                             1.1 million (84.62)
Adult Literacy Rate (1982)                                       48%
Per Capita Income (GNP 1983)                                     US$340
EDUCATION
Enrollment in Primary Schools (1984)
(Grades 1-7)                                                   4,380,300
-  As a Percentage of 6-12 Age Group                             103.1Z
-  Percentage Females                                             48.2Z
Enrollment in Lower Secondary Schools (1984)
(Forms I - IV)                                                483,132
-  As a Percentage of the 13-16 Age Group                         27.21
-  Percentage Females (1979)                                      41.2%
Enrollment in Higher Secondary Schools (1984)
(Forms V-VI)                                                   25,421
-  As a Percentage of the 17-18 Age Group                          3.2%
-  Percentage Females (1979)                                      30.6Z
EDUCATIONAL FINANCE (NEST)
Government Expenditure on Education
as percentage of total Government expenditure 1984/85          20.11
Government Expenditure on Education
as percentage of GDP (1983/84)                                  5.8%
Recurrent Education Expenditure as percentage of
total Government recurrent expenditure (1984/85)                28.51
Capital Education Expenditure as percentage of
total Government capital expenditure (1984/85)                   4.0$



I. DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT
Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Kenya is a country of remarkable variety and contrasts.  Its
population comprises some 40 officially recognized ethnic groups, including
sizeable numbers of nomadic and pastoral peoples. Geographically, Kenya
stretches from a long coastline on the Indian Ocean to broad expanses of
high plateaus in the Center and West, desert in the North and semi-arid
plains in the South. Overall population density is 27 persons per square
kilometre, with a variation among districts from of 1 to a 395 (excluding
major cities). Almost 20% of Kenya's population lives in arid and
semi-arid zones.
1.02      Kenya's population is estimated at 20.3 million in 1985.  About
85% of the people live in rural areas, and some 62Z are wader 20 years of
age. Population growth has accelerated from 3.4Z p.a. during the
intercensal period 1962-69 to 3.8% during 1969-79, the third highest rate
in the world. This acceleration reflects a decline in mortality, an
increase in fertility arising from contivuation of the traditional
preference for large families, and improvements in health care. The
resulting rapid population growth has generated increasing pressures on the
land, on labor markets, and on education and health services. In response
to these problems, a National Council on Population and Development has
been established in the Office of the Vice President. It has been only
recently, however, that the Government has begun to express intentions to
take steps toward development of the necessary foundations for a credible
population control program, including introduction of family planning
concepts into the school curricula.
1.03      About one-third of Kenya's gross domestic product (GDP) is
accounted for by agriculture. Economic growth during Kenya's first full
decade as an independent nation (1963-73) was 6.52 p.a. (4.5Z in
agriculture and 8.0% in industry). This was followed by a growth rate of
4.0% p.a. (2.5% in agriculture and 6.5% in industry) since 1973, which
represents virtual stagnation in per capita terms. The current account
deficit was reduced from 12% of GDP in 1980 to 4% in 1983. During the same
period, however, the debt service ratio increased from 13% to 28%, and real
income per capita fell by about 5%. By early 1984, the Kenyan economy
appeared to be on the path to recovery, following a difficult four-year
period (1980-83) when priority was given to stabilization measures. During
that interval, fiscal deficits were reduced through retrenchment of
expenditures, interest rates were increased, credit expansion was
decelerated, wages were held down, and a more active exchange rate policy
was introduced. The Government made less progress, however, on structural
adjustment issues such as import liberalization, export promotion, grain
marketing reform, and strengthening the management of the public sector.
1.04      The Government's expectations for a resumption of growth in per
capita income in 1984 were dashed by the worst drought in 50 years.



-2-
Failure of the rains in most parts of the country affected not only maize
and wheat crops, but also production of maize substitutes such as beans,
potatoes, sorghum and dairy products. Furthermore, the national livestock
herd was sharply reduced by record levels of slaughter. The impact of the
drought on the budget and the balance of payments was partly alleviated by
the response of foreign donors in doubling grant aid, and by exceptionally
high prices for coffee and tea in 1984. Normal rainfall returned in the
fourth quarter of. 1984, and the "long rains' in early 1985 were excellent.
GDP, which stagnated in 1984,' is expected to grow by 4% in 1985.
Development Objectives
1.05      The central theme of Kenya's Fifth Develop.uent Plan (1984-88) is
"mobilization of domestic resources for equitable development". The Plan
recognizes the limitations of public investment and declares that 'growth
in the private sector is the core of the development process in Kenya-.
Along with this, the Plan clearly reflects the Government's determination
to avoid the excessive spending which undermined Kenya's domestic financial
stability and external financial position during the early years of the
Fourth Plan period. Considerable attention is devoted to the need to
improve efficiency throughout Government. In the current context of
financial austerity, the Plan specifies that "every ministry has been
instructed to undertake a study of its essential functions and internal
organization and personnel appropriate to their efficient performance".
1.06      The Plan recognizes cost sharing as an appropriate response to
the parallel constraints of financial austerity and equitable access to
Government financed services. For education, the Plan states that 'ways
and means will be found for passing on a large share of the cost of
post-primary education and training through cost sharing schemes to those
who benefit from them and seeking the support of the local communities".
1.07      The treatment of population and family planning in the Plan is
brief and inadequate. The Cabinet has, however, recently approved
population policy guidelines prepared by the National Council on Population
and Development, which provide for a more vigorous family planning effort.
In those guidelines, a target of reducing population growth rate to 3.3X
p.a. by 1988 is adopted. Regardless of future progress in reducing
fertility, the labor force is expected to increase by 85% between 1985 and
the year 2000.
Manpower and Employment
1.08      Knowledge about the structure of wage employment and about
manpower supply and demand is characterized by a dearth of detailed and
reliable inforuation. Wage employment reportedly occupied about 1.1
million people in 1983, of whom 17% were females. Of the total, 21% worked
in agriculture and forestry, and 48% were in the public sector. Urban
centers accounted for 55%. In addition, there were another 63,000
self-employed workers and some 183,000 nthers in the urban informal
sector. Recorded wage employment increased by 4.5% in 1983, double the



-3-
rate of 1982. Unemployment was estimated by the Ministry of Labor at
around 162 in 1983. The lack of reliable and detailed information
regarding the supply of and demand for skilled labor greatly restricts the
ability to plan effectively for development of the work force. It has now
been proposed to establish a manpower and training requirements study which
would: (a) evaluate the production and utilization of specialized manpower
in the industrial sector; and (b) establish a permanent occupational
information system to facilitate planning of a comprehensive training
system. Development of this information system is being supported
financially under the Fifth Education Project (Credit 1107-KE).
1.09      Information available from Government and private sector sources
indicates that there are no overall deficits of manpower at the middle
range skill levels. There are shortages in some individual occupations and
surpluses in others (e.g., in the building trades, because of extensive
training opportunities at a time of declining construction activities).
With some exceptions (e.g., medicine) there also do not appear to be
serious shortages in highly skilled manpower. The manpower and training
study (para. 1.08) would help to clarify these matters, and to identify the
sectoral and geographical location of shortages and surpluses.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      The education system of Kenya is one of the the most developed
and di'versified in Africa. (Comparative education indicators are presented
in Annex I, Table 1.) Its expansion at all levels since independence in
1963 has been rapid. In 1984, primary education enrolled some 4.4 million
pupils, more than four times as many as 20 yeara earlier (Annex I, Table
2). This enrollment was slightly more than the population of corresponding
age, which indicates a high level of access to, combined with low internal
efficiency in, primary schooling (para. 2.09). Quantitative expansion in
secondary education (which preseptly enrolls about 19% of the relevant age
group) has been even more pronounced, with enrollments in general education
rising from 27,000 in 1963 to over 508,000 in 1984 (Annex I, Table 3.)
Similarly, technical secondary schools enrolled about 10,000 in 1983
.ampared with 1,500 at independence.  Growth at the secondary level has
been facilitated by extensive community (Harambee) and private
participation, resulting in non-Government institutions accounting for
almost 60% of secondary level enrollments.   The expansion of secondary
education and the need to train high level manpower have also resulted in
increased demanid for higher education. About 7,300 were enrolled in
1983/84 in degree-granting institutions. An additional 4,900 students
attended the major Government-sponsored technical training institutions at
the diploma level, 12,000 in primary teacher training and another 3,000
were in secondary teacher training. At least 9,000 additional students
attend university programs overseas, and a further 30,000 take part in
other post-secondary courses of various types and sponsorship-



-4-
2.02      The dramatic quantitative growth in school enrollment has been
achieved, to some degree, by allowing academic quality to decline,
particularly at the primary and secondary levels. To counter this trend,
the Government has resolved to increase its efforts to maintain and improve
the quality of education, even as enrollment levels continue to grow in
response to population pressures.
Government Policies for Education
2.03      Government policy for the education sector, as expressed in the
Fifth Development Plan (1983/84-1987/88) consists of: a) establishment of
a new "8-4-4 structure- for education based on eight years of primary, four
years of secondary and four years of higher education (paras. 2.05-2.07);
b) universalization of eight years of primary schooling free of charge for
all children of the appropriate age group; c) slower quantitative growth of
the education system at the upper levels and increased efforts toward job
creation; d) increased cost sharing by local communities and students at
the secondary and higher education levels; e) revision of curricula towards
greater emphasis on practical subjects and preparation for employment; and
f) expansion of nonformal education and training. The Association is in
agreement with these policies to the extent that they do not increase
education system costs beyond reasonable limits (para. 2.20).
2.04      Because of the rapid growth of enrollments, Government
expenditure on education over the past decade has expanded more rapidly
than has the economy. In order to contain education expenditure, the
Government seeks to maintain a limit on the Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology (MEST) recurrent budget at 30Z of total Government recurrent
expenditure (excluding det- service and other fixed commitments). The
relation of the proposed project with the need to control recurrent
expenditures on education is discussed in para. 4.08.
Structure of the Education System
2.05      The educational system of Kenya is in a state of flux, in large
part because of the shift in structure which was introduced in the 1985
school year. Prior to that time, primary education comprised seven grades
(standards 1 through 7), secondary education was made up of a four-grade
sequence (forms I through IV) culminating in 0-level (ordinary)
examinations and a two-grade sequence (forms V and VI) leading to the
A-level (advanced) examination (Annex I, Chart 1). This sequence of
primary and secondary schooling was followed by a three year university
course terminating in the bachelors's degree. In 1981, a Presidential
Working Party, convened to study the need for a second university,
recommended that the existing structure be altered to incorporate eight
grades of primary schooling, four grades of secondary education and four
years of university. The total number of years remains the same, for those
few who go the whole way. The quantitative demands on primary schools and
the university increase by one grade each, and the transition from the old
system to the new one will be inevitably complicated. This is especially
so for those post-secondary programs which have variously required an



-5-
0-level or an A-level qualification to enter. That distinction will no
longer exist under the 8-4-4 structure, forcing the post-secondary
institutions to re-think their entry requirements.
2.06      There are several benefits associated with the new system which
offset the administrative difficulties which it entails. First, primary
school pupils rill have available to them one additional year of schooling,
which will eventually raise the general level of education of the
pcoulation. Secondly, the shortening and simplification of the secondary
cycit is intended to reduce the emphasis on formal qualifications,
especially at the advanced level, and to help orient the system away from
the academic development of a privileged few toward the more practical
needs of the larger mass of students. Thirdly, curriculum revision is
taking place which -:11 provide a bias toward applied and practical studies
in both primary and secondary education. Overall, the intention of the
8-4-4 structure is to increase, over time, the relevance and social equity
of education in Kenya.
2.07      The 8-4-4 structure is already being put in place.  Physical
facilities for the standard 8 have been built with community resources in a
vast majority of locations; teachers have been hired for the new grade; and
students were enrolled in standard 8 throughout the country for the 1985
school year. Within five years (by 1990), the new system will be fully in
place, and the universities will have admitted their first students in the
new four year program. Meanwhile, it is the first order of technical
business of the NEST to execute the necessary organizational,
admivistrative and qualitative modifications to enable the education system
to adapt to the new structure.
Operational Description of the Education System
2.08      Notwithstanding the changes which in time will be effected by the
8-4-4 structure, the operational characteristics of the education system,
as it has operated since independence, provide a picture of the base upon
which future developments will take place. At all levels of schooling,
strong social demand for education is demonstrated by the dramatic increase
of enrollments and by the willingness of individuals and communities to
provide resources for education, notably physical facilities but also
operational costs in many cases. This level of non-Governmental activity
reflects the commonly held public perception of the value of education and
training to the future economic well being of today's youth. It becomes
the Government's job, therefore, to assess that value in a more systematic
fashion and to modify education and training programs so that they in fact
contribute effectively to the economic benefit of individuals, and
therefore also to that of the nation as a whole.
2.09      Primary Schools.  The dramatic growth of enrollments in primary
schools received special impetus in 1974 and 1979, with the abolition of
school fees and the introduction of the free milk program, respectively,
(Annex 1, Table 2). The internal efficiency of the primary schools is
illustrated by the rate of progression from grade to grade and by the



-6-
degree of wastage as represented by rates of repetition and drop-out (Annex
1, Table 4). These indicate thac for each 1,000 pupils who enter primary
school, only about 58% complete standard 7 (1980). As a result, the high
rate of total enrollment with respect to population of school age (1032 In
1984) masks a situation in which many children fail to complete the full
primary cycle, and in which over-age students take up places because of
repetition or late entry to school (Annex I, Chart 2). Further,
disaggregation of this information below the national level reveals a
situation where some regions are as much as 872 below the national average
in terms of proportion of the primary school age group which is in fact
enrolled (Annex I, Table 5). These cases occur primarily In arid and
sparsely populated zones, and the disparities become more severe with
further disaggregation of enrollment information to the district and lower
administrative levels.
2.10      The quality of the primary schools is a reflection of the
material and human imputs provided to those schools. Construction,
furnishing and maiatenance of primary school buildings are almost totally
the responsibility of local communities. Teacners are Uupplied and paid by
the Government through the Teachers Service Commission (TSC), a
semi-autonomous body within the NEST which recruits, assigns, promotes and
disciplines teachers. In 1984, about 30% 3f primary school teachers were
untrained (Annex I, Table 6), a reflection of past population growth and of
the recent addition of standard 8. Textbooks and school supplies are
provided through the Kenya School Equipment Scheme (KSES) at no charge, and
without the requirement of a cash deposit. Only KSh 21 per student per
year is provided for this purpose, however, an amount which has been
unchanged for some ten years. As a result, parents must In practice
purchase supplementary materials for the use of their children. These
additional costs vary with circumstances and with the ability to pay,
resulting in erosion of both quality and equity in the delivery of primary
schooling. The Government recurrent expenditure on primary education in
1984 was about US$37 equivalent per child enrolled. This is comparable to
that of neighboring states such as Tanzania and Ethiopia, but much lower
than nations like Botswana and Zimbabwe. Further expansion of primary
education is likely to use mainly existing resources and to increase total
cost only marginally.
2.11      The development and production of school materials is coordinated
by the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE), which is directly resp'nsible
for the preparation of syllabi and curricula for primary, secondary,
technical and teacher educati,n below the university level. Publication of
the resulting materials is the job of the Jomo Kenyatta Foundation.
Textbooks are also in some cases procured from commercial publishing
houses, af'-r review and recommendations by the MEST. Schooling at the
primary level is enriched by radio broadcasts prepared at the KIE and
transmitted by the Voice of Kenya. These programs are of 30 minutes
duration per day per grade for eight weeks of each term. The programs are
received on radios which are provided to each school through the KSES.



-7-
2.12      General Secondary Schools.  Secondary schools are of two kinds,
board of governors maintained schools and private schools, including
Harambee schools. The former include '-maintained" schools which are
totally supported by the Government and enroll about 41% of all secondary
students, and also 'assisted" schools which are provided with some
Government funds but are further supported by their communities, enrolling
some 2X% (Annex I, Table 3). The unaided schools (including some Harambee
schools), which enroll the remaining 37% of secondary school students, are
the full responsibility of their sponsors, though the Government
increasingly provides assistance to Harambee schools through provision of
some teachers. The policy now is also to provide each of these with a
qualified head teacher, to the extent possible. On average, the quality of
education available in the several kinds of secondary schools is quite
distinct, with the fully supported Government maintained schools showing
best performance and the Harambee schools the poorest, as measured by
examination performance at the end of the cycle. Books and other materials
used in the secondary schools are provided for by Government grants. The
books are loaned to students free of charge, but a cash deposit is
required. As with the primary schools, supplementary expenditures are
called for from those students who are able to pay for additional
instructional materials. Government recurrent expenditure on all types of
secondary education in 1983 averaged US$74 equivalent per student
enrolled.
2.13      There is strong pressure for access to further study at all
levels of education. The transition rate from primary to lower secondary
school is between 35% and 40% (Annex I, Table 4). That from lower to upper
secondary is some 18% of qualified 0-level completers.
2.14      Teacher Education.  Teacher training has grown rapidly along with
school enrollments, though in the case of primary education not rapidly
enough to keep pace. There are 15 primary teacher training colleges (PTTC)
enrolling about 12,000 students (Annex I, Table 7), and with an annual
output of some 5,600 new trained teachers. (About 80% of teacher training
candidates are previous untrained teachers.) An average of 1,000
unqualified primary school teachers also become trained annually (a group
of some 3,000 each three years) through in-service training. With the
expectation of continually increasing primary level enrollments, the
deficit in trained teachers is expected to remain at serious levels unless
additional teacher training facilities are provided (Annex I, Table 8).
2.15      The situation with regard to secondary school teachers is
more satisfactory. There are seven major secondary teacher training
institutions, enrolling about 2,000 students in degree courses (at Kenyatta
University College (KUC)) and some 3,000 non-degree trainees (at six
diploma colleges). The total annual output is about 2,200 new secondary
school teachers. This is expected to increase to about 2,600 annually in
the near future.



-8-
2.16      Higher Education.  The University of Nairobi and Moi University
are the only major universities presently operating in Kenya. The
undergraduate enrollment at the University of Nairobi in 1983/84 was 7,328
(Annex I, Table 9). The Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine
and the Faculty of Education at Kenyatta University College (KUC) are
located separately from the main campus. Per student costs are some
US$2,100 equivalent (1983). KUC is expected to be elevated to full
university status shortly. There are, in addition, two very small
independent post-secondary colleges under foreign sponsorship. The bases
of academic and physical planning for Moi University are being undertaken
by the African Development Fund (AfDF). Meanwhile, some construction has
already started there, and the Department of Forestry from the University
of Nairobi has been moved to the new university site in Eldoret.
Undergraduate courses are presently available in Kenya in agriculture,
architecture, arts, commerce, dentistry, economics, education, engineering,
forestry, home economics, law, medicine, nursing, pharmacy,science and
veterinary medicine. Post-graduate courses have been or are being
established for most subjects. In order to determine the need for the new
university, a manpower study of higher education requirements is being
carried out as a first part of the AfDB work. The Bank agrees that this is
an essential element of overall planning for higher education. In
addition, the findings of this study would complement the manpower and
training study being financed under the Fifth Education Project (para-
1.08).
2.17      Technical Education and Training.  In addition to some 4,900
students enrolled in post-secondary courses at the national polytechnics at
Nairobi and Mombasa, and in the Jomo Kenyatta College of Agriculture and
Technology, the Kenya Technical feachers College trains technical and
vocational teachers and instructors at all levels. There are, in addition,
15 Rarambee Institutes of Technology which receive on1v small amounts of
Government support but substantial foreign assistance. At the secondary
level, the existing technical secondary schools, nine of which were
provided under the First Education Project (Credit 93-KE), are soon to be
converted to technical training institutions for both primary graduates
(artisan level) and secondary school leavers (crafts level). Other
technical training is provided by the Ministry of Labor in three Industrial
Training Centers and by the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
Development, Health, and Water Development, inter alia, for the training of
their own staff (Annex I, Table 10). Nonformal baskc skill training at the
pre-vocational level is also provided at about 400 junior
polytechnics (JP) (formerly village polytechnics (VP)) which presently
enroll about 30,000 school leavers. These provide semi-skilled training
programs aimed at salaried employment and self-employment, based on the
needs that have been determined for their communities. Other nonformal
training opportunities for primary school leavers are provided by YMCA
Crafts Training Centers, Christian Industrial Training Centers and the
National Youth Service.



-9-
Female Participation in Education
2.18      The enrollment of girls in primary education grew from  about 40%
in 1968 to some 48% in 1981, at which level it has leveled off (Annex I,
Table 2). In general secondary schools, the rate of increase has been more
pronounced, growing from some 25X in 1967 to almost 41Z in 1981, after
which disaggregation by sex is not available (Annex I, Table 3). It is
also noted that the rate of female enrollment is generally lower in the
upper forms, decreasing, for example, in 1979 from 43.2% in form I to 30.9%
in form VI. Primary school teachers in 1984 were about 32% female (Annex
I, Table 6). The percentages are higher for PTTC students, who increased
from 37.3% in 1975 to 41.2% in 1984. It is expected that the provision of
new student places at PTTCs under the proposed project would increase the
percentage of qualified female teachers, by increasing access to training
for that profession. At the university level, the record is less positive,
with only about 23% of undergraduate enrollments being female outside of
the education faculty. In the latter, some 48% were female in 1983/84
(Annex I, Table 9). The corresponding figures for postgraduate enrollment
were 19% and 27.5% female respectively.
Management and Finance
2.19      Management.  Formal education is the responsibility of the NEST,
whose brief includes both technical and higher education in addition to
general primary and secondary schools. The organizational structure of
NEST is shown in Annex I, Chart 3. The Association has assisted in
strengthening the managemenc capacity of the MEST through support to the
Kenya National Examinations Council under the Fourth (Credit 797-KE) and
Fifth Elucation Projects, to the training of school headmasters under the
Fifth Education Project (over 3,600 trained in an appparently successful,
though as yet unevaluated, program), and to the Planning Unit of MEST under
the Fourth and Fifth Education Projects. Many of the functions of
education sector   Qagement are carried out through Provincial and District
Education Offices, whose role will increase as all sectors of the
Government move toward more control at the district level. A related
agency of great importance to education is the TSC, which has
responsibility for the administrative aspects of providing teachers to the
primary, secondary and technical schools, PTTCs and national polytechnics
(para. 2.10).
2.20      Finance.  The priority attached to education and training by the
Government is reflected in the high share allocated to the sector in the
Government recurrent budget. About 30% goes to education under the NEST
(Annex I, Table 11), an amount more than twice that devoted to any other
Ministry, including defense. To this must be added education and training
programs under other ministries (Annex I, Table 10). The NEST claimed
about six percent of GDP in the early 1980s, and this portion is likely to
rise. These high allocations reflect in large part the cost of free
education at the primary level and substantial assistance from public funds
to all other levels and aspects of education, particularly to the
universities and to the Harambee schools and institutes. The Government is



- 10 -
showing increasing concern over the level of these expenditures and the
need to control them. In the short term, it has reaffirmed its intention
to keep recurrent education expenditures within 30% of the total recurrent
budget, though this seems unlikely to be feasible in the immediate future
(Annex I, Table 11). To deal with the longer term issue, a Presidential
Working Party on Education and Manpower Training has recently been
established which will deal with the costs of education, inter alia. The
Working Party is composed of four Permanent Secretaries and other
distinguished representatives from a broad cross section of Kenya's
society. Its establishment represents a significant step forward as such
bodies constitute an effective institutional mechanism in Kenya for dealing
with difficult policies and/or broad issues which cut across several
Ministries and other entities. It is expected that both projection and
control of education costs, and their recovery from sources other than the
national budget in appropriate cases would be reviewed in detail. Within
the 1984/85 budget of MEST, about 60% of recurrent expenditures go to
primary schooling, 14% to secondary education 11% to Universities and 7% to
post-secondary training (Annex I, Table 12).   Private financial
involvement in education is also strong, especially through community
support of secondary education, primary school construction and the JPs.
Though free primary schooling is seen as a national responsibility,
increasing use of other sources, including fees, will be considered for the
higher levels, whose quantitative and qualitative expansion puts heavy
burdens on the education sector budget.
The Role of the Bank Group in Education Development
2.21      Since 1966, the Bank Group has assisted Kenya in five education
projects with loans and credits totaling of US$86.1 million equivalent.
2.22      The First Education Project (Credit 93-KE for US$7.0 million
equivalent) was approved in 1966 with a total project cost of US$9.7
million equivalent. The project financed a major expansion program which
involved construction and equipping of 42 general secondary schools, nine
technical secondary schools and 11 PTTCs. The project was completed within
the Closing Date at a cost 8% above the appraisal estimate. The results of
the project were reviewed in 1974, and the overall objectives were judged
to have been successfully met (Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) 328,
dated February 12, 1974).
2.23      The Second Education Project (Credit 185-KE for USA 6.1 million
equivalent) was approved in 1970 with a total project cost of US' 9.3
million equivalent, and was designed to expand training for agricultural
staff and farmers, secondary and technical education, and primary teacher
training. The later substitut'on, at the Governments request, of a new
technical secondary school instead of expansion of ar. exIsting school
contributed to a two year completion delay and consequent postponement of
the Closing Date. The Project also provided for preparation of a
comprehensive national education development plan, and a unit was set up in
the then Ministry of Education for that purpose. The expected plan was
never made, but the unit did contribute to the education chapter of the



- 11 -
Development Plan of 1974-78. PPAR 2540, dated June 12, 1979, concluded
that: the quantitative targets had been met or exceeded; the project
appraisal bad probably paid insufficient attention to the training of staff
in certificate level institutions, and their quality was below standard;
the physical implementation of those components for which the Ministry of
Works (NOW) had commissioned private architects had made much better
progress than that of those designed and supervised solely by their own
overburdened staff; and there was a lack of cooperation between the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the MOW education team.
2.24      The Third Education Project (Loan 1184-KE for US$10 million
equivalent), with a total project cost of US$18 million equivalent, was
approved in 1975. The project focussed on the expansion and improvement of
primary teacher training, on the distribution and storage of school
equipment, and on assistance to the development of curricula and education
media. The project also provided assistance to the National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP), which issued its report in
January 1977. As a result of delays In implementation, the Closing Date
was postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1983. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) of May 1985 noted that the project experienced serious delays,
arising mostly from the inability of the MOW to provide sufficient manpower
and from the weak administrative and technical capacity of the PIU.
Whereas construction was generally satisfactory, except for poor
supervision on the part of the MOW, procurement of specialized equipment
for the EMS met with difficulties. The great reluctance of the Government
to utilize technical assistance funds under the Loan also affected the
project adversely. Despite these drawbacks, the major physical objectives
of the project were met. Though an evaluation of educational objectives is
premature, the institutions supported by the project appear to be
functioning in a productive way. The Project has yet to be audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department.
2.25      The Fourth Education Project (Credit 797-RE for US$23.0 million
equivalent) was signed in June 1978 with total project cost of US$31
million equivalent. The project included a further expansion of
agricultural training capacity at the degree and ccrtificate levels,
development of project management training, assistance to primary education
in arid zones and to VPs, and support to curriculum development and to
examination research and planning. Because of difficulties in
implementation, the project was amended to reduce its scope and, because of
currency fluctuations, to increase disbursement percentages. At the same
time, the Closing Date was postponed by two years. At the termination of
the project, over US$3.8 million equivalent remained undisbursed and will
be cancelled. A substantial portion of this balance accrued because of
devaluation, and the remainder arose '!om reductions in project scope,
failure to utilize technical assistance and failure to procure full
complements of equipment for project institutions. Despite the high
percentage of the credit cancelled, the project achieved considerable
success, notably in curriculum reform, improved project development and
management capability, increased capacity in agricultural education and
training, and expanded access to primary education in nomadic areas.



- 12 -
Implementation delays arose in part from pressures on the PIU, which had to
implement the Third, Fourth and Fifth Education Project concurrently. The
Government also experienced difficul :y in budgeting the necessary
counterpart funds. In addition, the project had components under several
ministries, which made it difficult to coordinate within the Government's
generally weak management capability. Finally, the Government did not
provide adequate staff to the PIU to enable it to overcome implementation
delays. A PCR is under preparation.
2.26      The Fifth Education Project (Credit 1107-KE for SDR 31.4 million
or US$35.0 million equivalent) was signed in May 1981, with a total project
cost of US$55 million equivalent. The project aims to assist in training
manpower at the managerial and middle technical levels. The project as
originally approved addressed the training of: primary and secondary
school management staff; high and middle level technicians in agriculture;
high and middle level technicians in water supply development; and skilled
workers for the industrial sector. Disbursements on this project are
lagging after a slow start, but good overall progress is now being made on
the components which are under implementation. Based on a Government
request, the Kenya Water Resources Training Institute, appraised at US$
10.3 million equivalent, has been deleted from the project and replaced by
several smaller components. These support a manpower and training
requirements study (para. 1.08), examinations development, education system
planning, curriculum development, media equipment and future project
preparation. At the same time, the Project Closing Date was postponed by
one year to June 30, 1987. It is expected that these changes will
contribute both to effective utilization of project funds and to
fulfillment of a wide range of educational objectives.
2.27      Lessons Learned.  Experience with past education projects
provides lessons with respect to both project design and implementation.
The need for an effective ongoing dialogue regarding education sector
issues must be recognized, especially because many problems of a continuing
nature need to be dealt with. These include, inter alia, the impact of
population policy on enrollment growth, rising education sector costs and
the associated need for efficient use of resources, improved planning and
management for all parts of the sector, and effective implementation of
Bank Group projects. In view of the Government's reluctance to fully
utilize project resources for technical assistance, the latter point
requires special attention in project design. There is also a need for
adequate organizational status and technically qualified staffing of the
PIU, and for timely availability of counterpart funds to support Government
financial participation in the project. The administrative simplicity
which arises from basing all project components in a single ministry is
also noted. Further lessons relate more specifically to the technical
functions which must be maintained and/or strengthened in the PIU. They
include advanced technical preparation of key project components,
capability to supervise effectively the architectural and engineering work
done for the project, and prompt and effective tendering, particularly for
highly specialized items. These matters are being addressed in the
proposed project.



- 13 -
2.28      Bank Group Lending Strategy for the Education Sector.  Throughout
the recent rapid expansion of the education and training system, the
efficiency of that system has declined because of administrative burdens
and high costs. As increased financial constraints and uncoordinated
expansion threaten the viability of the system, the education development
process needs to be reassessed with emphasis on planning, financing and
management. Stress on institution building is thus called for to improve
management, to rationalize operations and to reduce costs, as well as to
strengthen the capability for project implementation. On the educational
side, quantitative expansion does not call for assistance, other than to
promote increased equity for the more remote regions, but the qualitative
aspect is much in need of improvement. The Bank Group would continue to
support efforts to increase equity of educational opportunity in deprived
areas, and to improve quality in all parts of the system, both in terms of
operational efficiency and in the provision of improved inputs to the
instructional process. Finally, with regard to secondary and vocational
education, there is lack of coordination and supervision, and duplication
of *afforts among the various organizations which sponsor education and
training institutions. The system must be helped to respond more
effectively to manpower needs as they come to be revealed by the manpower
and training requirements study (para. 1.08).
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      In general terms, the proposed project would provide assistance
to the Government to: a) increase the effectiveness, relevance to
socio-economic requirements, and efficiency of the education system within
the new 8-4-4 structure; and b) adjust the system to overall financial
constraints in the environment of increasing social demand which results
f-fom a high rate of demographic growth and a consistently high value
K&ttributed by the population to education. The specific objectives would
be: a) to improve equity and quality of the education system by (i)
providing a limited number of primary schools in deprived remote areas,
(ii) providing additional teacher training Zacilities, and (iii) raising
the level of educational quality through curriculum development and
increased capacity to deliver educational media; and b) to promote
institutional development through strengthening the capability of the
Government to plan effectively for the education sector and to manage its
expansion at all levels.
Primary Education
3.02      Primary Teacher Training Colleges.  The growth of primary
schooling, under heavy population pressures and a policy of free primary
education for all, together with normal attrition from the teaching force,
brought the number of untrained primary school teachers to lw.re than 41,000



- 14 -
in 1985 (over 30% of the total number). This quantity is expected to
remain as high as 34,000 in the year 2000, if no new teacher training
facilities are provided.  The proposed project would seek to reduce the
deficit by providing for seven new PTTCs with a total capacity of 4,080
trainees. These would be located in districts where teacher training
facilities do not yet ex'st, and within a reasonable distance of existing
primary schools to facilitate practice teaching. The schools would be
residential and would follow the established two year curriculum for
PTTCs. Furthermore, about 2,720 additional in-service teachers would be
upgraded in these institutions to qualified status each three years by
distance-teaching, correspondence and vacation programs based at the new
colleges. The total additional output of trained t achers would therefore
average 2,830 annually. The estimated effect of this increase on the
trained teacher deficit is shown in Annex I, Table 8. It is the
Government's intention to limit the impact of these additional trained
teachers on recurrent education expenditures by recruiting 30% of all
pre-service teacher trainees at the P3 level (those recruited for training
after eight years of primary education). This proportion of P3 level
teachers can be utilized by the system without detriment to the quality of
instruction. Eqtitable distribution of qualified teachers of various
levels would be assured by the Government policy of recruiting teacher
trainees on a geographically equitable basis, and of returning trained
teachers to their district of origin.
3.03      Sites at Bondo, Murang'a and Tambach (720 students each) and at
Garissa, Narok, Voi and Baringo (480 students each) have been chosen for
these schools. The sites were chosen in order to promote more even
geographical distribution of these facilities, and at the same time to
maintain reasonable unit costs. The PTTCs are national institutions, and
students are assigned to them in a manner which promotes mixing of trainees
from different regions. Therefore, the question of catchment area does not
arise as a primary criterion for their location. In the case of the
proposed PTTC at Garissa, however, regional factors do come into play, in
order to provide a focus for teacher training in the sparsely populated
North Eastern Province, where the incidence of trained teachers is lower
than elsewhere in the country (Annex I, Table 6). At negotiations, the
Government provided a staffing plan satisfactory to the Association for the
new PTTCs (para 7-Ola).
3.04      Arid Zone Primary Schools. Three primary schools in remote, arid
areas would be provided under the proposed project, at Kanyao, Barsaloi and
Hokowe. These would bring to a total of nine the number of such schools
six of which were provided under the Fourth Education Project. They would
be built in areas where tribesmen routinely move about in pursuit of
pastoral activities. Though day schools are provided in those areas, as
elsewhere, for children whose parents are settled in one place, the
children of nomadic families require boarding facilities in order to
benefit from schooling. The schools under the proposed project would be
located at sites in deprived areas where other means of pupil boarding are
not available. It is therefore the aim, in providing these schools, to
increase equity by providing educational opportunities in some of



- 15 -
the poorest and least vell-served locations. The schools would also be
used as coimunity centers for adult education, in conformity with general
practice.  The development of settled agriculture in the areas where these
schools would be sited is a long-term objective of the Government. These
schools would therefore be located near water resources, and practical
studies in agriculture would be included in the curriculum. Each school
would have a workshop, classrooms and related facilities for a total of 360
pupils in eight grades. Eight modest houses for teachers and staff would
be provided at each school. The curriculum for these schools would be the
same as for other primary schools, and the supply of teachers would be
guaranteed by the Government through the TSC.
3.05      Education Media Support.  The Education Media Service (EMS), a
part of the KIE, prepares for broadcast the radio programs used in primary
education and in-service teacher training. Educational television programs
are also prepared by the EMS to a certain extent. Both media are used to
improve the quality of educational services available to students
throughout the country. Technical ealipment for the EMS was provided under
the Third Education project and has been effectively used by that
institution in the development of its present operational capability. The
proposed project would provide additional equipment for the preparation and
recording of educational materials using audio and visual media, five
wan-years of specialist services to improve and guarantee program quality
through effective utilization of that equipment, and ten man-years of
fellowships in the field of education media.
Secondary and Technical Education
3.06      Curriculum Development.  To assist in improving the quality of
education, the KIE is developing standardized curricula for use in all
schools below the university level. Assistance under the Fourth and Fifth
Education Projects has been instrumental in the preparation and pilot
testing of curriculum materials for primary schools, and in preparation of
the resulting instructional materials for publication. Support for such
activities in secondary and technical education has already begun and would
be continued under the proposed project. That support would provide, inter
alia, equipment, travel, subsistence and other operational expenses for
steering committees, subject and course panels, and academic boards to
develop courses for secondary and technical schools and for teacher
education. The cost of printing and distribution of materials to be used
in testing the new curricula would also be included, as would that for
summative evaluation and for ten man-years of fellowships to upgrade KIE
curriculum development staff. The cost under the proposed project for the
present enrollment of about 500,000 students in the affected schools is
approximately US$12 per student. This outlay is actually an investment,
since use of the resulting curricula would be spread over a number of years
to come, and would contribute to the improvement of educational quality
without any significant further increase in cost. Courses in population
and family life education would be included in the work of curriculum
development for both secondary schools and teacher training. It is
expected that these would be developed in collaboration with the National



- 16 -
Council of Population and Development (para. 1.02). At negotiations, in
order to guarantee a proper relation between technical education curricula
and manpower requirements, the Government gave assurances that those
curricula would take into account the results of the manpower and training
requirements study being carried out under the Fifth Education Project,
having already taken due consideration therein of the needs and
expectations of future employers (para. 7.01b).
Institutional Development
3.07      The pressures of quantitative growth of the education sector and
the simultaneous need for qualitative improvement of education services,
each within the limitations imposed b  constrained financial resources, has
placed severe burdens on the management capabilities of the MEST. It is
evident that increased efficiency in the use of existing resources would
greatly improve the capacity of the NEST to fulfill its mission.
Assistance to this end has already commenced under the Fourth and Fifth
Education Projects, through the provision of training and equipment,
including computer hardware and software, to the Planning Unit of the
MEST. Continued assistance of the same kind, including three man-years of
specialist services, 30 man-months of short-term training, plus equipment
and operational expenses, would be provided under the proposed project in
such a way as to integrate that assistance with the activities which have
gone before.  The development of an effective Planning Unit is not only
technical but also an institutional development job, one which will take a
number of years to bring to a reasonable level of completion.  It is the
intention of this component to carry on with that process.  In addition,
the capacity to manage effectively the teacher resources of Kenya would be
augmented by the provision of computer and microfilm equipment to the
Teachers Service Commission, which is the largest single employer in the
country. The implementation capabilities of the PIU would also receive
enhancement under the project (paras. 5.02 and 5.03).
3.08      Provisions under the proposed project for institution building at
the NEST for both overall and project management run parallel to other
steps being taken by the Government. The Working Party on Education and
Manpower Training (para. 2.20) is principal among these, and significant
improvements in sector management are expected to result from its work. A
parallel initiative by AfDF (para. 2.16) in higher education and one being
developed by USAID in manpower development information by the United States
Agency for International Development are also noted. Concurrently, the
MEST is striving to upgrade both its management and its planning
capabilities, improved planning being seen as an essential element of
better management. The Association is providing technical assistanae and
software support for the computation of needed cost projections, in
addition to the assistance provided in the proposed project and the Fourth
and Fifth Education Projects.



- 17 -
Summary of Technical Assistance
3.09      Specialist Services.  About 38 man-years of specialist services,
locally contracted to the extent ferAsible, would be provided under the
proposed project. These would be a'located as follows: a) five man-years
to the EMS in connection with the utilization of education media equipment
(para. 3.05); b) three man-years for the Planning Unit of the MEST (para.
3.07); and c) 30 man-years of locally hired technical staff for the PIU
over the life of the project (para. 5.03). Specialists financed under the
Project would be selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Qualifications, experience and terms of employment would be subject to
review and agreement by the Association. All expatriate specialists, as
part of their terms of reference, would be expected to train local
counterpart staff.
3.10      Fellowships and Training.  About 23 man-years of long and
short-term fellowships, plus other training, would be included under the
proposed project. The fellowships would include: a) 10 man-years of
fellowships in educational media (para. 3.05); b) 10 man-years of
fellowships in curriculum development (para. 3.06); and c) 30 man-months of
short-term training for the MEST Planning Unit (para. 3.07). Other
training would be: a) in-country training for learning resource center
technicians at the PTTCs (para. 3.05); and b) training in the use of
equipment for TSC staff (para. 3.07). The curricula vitae of fellowship
recipients, all courses of study, training institutions and estimated
costs would be subject to review by the Association. At negotiations, the
Government provided to the Association draft terms of reference for
specialists to be hired under the proposed project and a plan for the
fellowships and training to be undertaken (para. 7.01c).
Environmental Impact
3.11      No negative impact on the environment is expected as a result of
the proposed project.
IY. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$56.1 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at US$6.3 million
equivalent. The estimated costs of the proposed project are given in Annex
II, Tables 1 through 3, and are summarized in the following table.



KSh (Million)            US$ (Million)      Z of
Base
Component                           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Cost
1. PRIMARY EDUCATION
a. Primary Teacher Training  280.54  152.98  433.52   17.53    9.56   27.09  67
b. Arid Zone Schools            24.66   15.97   40.63    1.54    1.00    2.54   6
c. Education Media
Support                      5.09   16.84   21.93    0.32    1.05    1.37   3
Sub-Total                   310.29  185.79  496.08   19.39   11T.6    31.0   n 7
2.  SECONDARY AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Curriculum Development          31.86   38.59   70.45    1.99    2.41    4.40  11
3.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
a. NEST Planning Unit            1.92    3.77    5.69    0.12    0.24    0.36   1
b. Teachers Service
Commission                   0.23    1.50    1.73    0.02    0.09    0.11   0
Sub-Total                     21s5   T327        I-2     0.14    0.33    0.47   1
4. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES            21.75   16.74   38.49    1.36    1.05    2.41   6
5. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION           20.67   16.70   37.37    1.29    1.05    2.34   6
TOTAL BASELINE CDSTS (Dec. 1985) 386.72  263.09  649.81   24.17   16.45   40.62 100
Physical Contingencies (7X)   30.89   16.05   46.94    1.93    1.00    2.93
Price Contingencies (29Z)    127.27   72.95  200.22    7.95    4.56   12.51
Total Contingencies                158.16   89.00  247.16    9.88    5.56   15.44
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                544.88  352.08  896.96   34.05   22.01   56.06
(of which Taxes)                  (100.81)   -    (100.81)  (6.30)    -       (6.30)



- 19 -
i
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived by Bank Group staff from a review of data from contracts
awarded for similar components in the Fourth and Fifth Education Projects,
from other Government development projects and from the private sector,
including, inter alia, locally based firms of architects and quantity
surveyors. The proposed schedules of accommodation are functional, austere
and appropriate for the proposed project objectives. An emphasis on the
use of building materials locally produced or found in situ, and the
monitoring exercised by a better staffed and more responsible PIU, are
expected to ensure the economical design of facilities. Furniture and
equipment would be of a type appropriate to accomplish the proposed
educational objectives.
4.03      The base cost of construction varies widely according to
location of schools, which are dispersed throughout the country, some of
them in remote areas of difficult access. Unit cost of proposed
construction of the PTTCs varies from US$227 to US$285 equivalent per m2,
due to different location factors. This compares favorably with the costs
of similar teacher training facilities such as: the PTTC in Comoros,
$305 per m2 (Oct. 1981); the PTTC in Ethiopia $419 per m2 (June 1984); and
the secondary teacher training college in Malawi; $570 per m2 (February
1981). The comparatively modest costs in the proposed project reflects
both the austerity of the facilities to be provided and the recent
appreciation of the US Dollar.
4.04      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Items directly imported for the
project would be exempt from Import duties and taxes. Project costs have
been estimated net of import duties and taxes on these items, but the total
cost includes taxes and duties estimated at about US$6.3 million
equivalent, representing taxes on locally procured construction materials,
furniture, equipment directly imported by contractors or purchased
off-the-shelf, and locally procured services.
4.05      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 1OZ has been
added to the base cost of civil works and 5% to the base cost of furniture,
equipment, vehicles and professional services. Price increases, above base
cost (dated December 1985) plus physical contingencies, have been applied
iu accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex II, Table 4) at the
following annual rates:
Calendar Year      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991-1995
International      7. 0     7.0%      7.5X      7.7%     7.6Z        4.5%
Domestic           9.w      8.01      7.5%      7.7%     7.6%        4.5%
These annual rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and have been
found satisfactory.  The total price increase for the project is estimated
at 29Z of base cost plus physical contingencies-



- 20 -
4.06      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
the proposed project has been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 3OZ;
(b) furniture, 60%; (c) equipment and vehLcles, 902; (d) technical
assistance specialists, 40Z; (e) fellowships, '.OOZ; (f) educational and
administrative operations, 50X; (g) professional services, 45Z; and (h)
in-country training 40Z. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange
component is estamated at US$22.0 million equivalent, or about 44% of total
project cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.07      The total project cost of US$56.1 million equivalent would be
financed with an IDA Credit of SDR35.0 million (US$37.5 million
equivalent), representing about 75Z of the total project cost net of
taxes. The credit would cover all foreign exchange costs (US$22.0 million)
and about 562 of the local currency costs, excluding custom duties and
taxes, as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government      IDA     Total
1.  Civil Works                             8.88        16.48    25.36
2.  Furniture                               0.38         1.53      1.91
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                  0.36         3.28      3.64
4.  Specialist Services                     0.98         0.98      1.96
5.  Fellowships                             0.07         0.62      0.69
6.  Educational Operations                  1.72         2.11      3.83
7.  Administrative Operations               0.30         0.45      0.75
8.  Professional Services                   #).60        1.81      2.41
9.  In-Country Training                      -.03        0.04      0.07
10. Unallocated                             5.24        10.20    15.44
Total                                  l-1          375      3U.Wu
(of which taxes)                       (6.30)         -      (6.30)
4.08      The Government's share of the costs of the proposed proJect would
represent about 0.8% of the Governmenit capital budget in the year of
greatest expenditure, FY1990, 2nd about 0.7% average annually over the six
year implementation period, under the assumption that that budget will
remain stable in real terms during the period of project implementation.
Effects of the project on the recurrent budget will arise almost entirely
from the cost of operating the proposed new PTTCs and from the increased
salary costs of the trained teachers which they will produce. These
additional costs would commence about 1989, with the first operation of the
new PTTCs. In that year, the additional cost would be about 0.2Z of
Government recurrent budget. By 1995, it would reach about 0.4% of that
budget, and in the year 2000 about 1.0%, taking into account the proposed
increase in P3 teacher trainees (para. 3.02).   These figures represent
some 0.6%, 1.4X and 3.3% of the NEST budget respectively, assuming that the
present 30X relation between the MEST and total Government budgets
will continue to hold. In view of the Impact of these costs on the MEST



- 21 -
budget, and because of the overall concern regarding increasing education
sector costs, at negotiations, the Government provided for discussion the
terms of reference for the Working Party on Education and Manpower
Training, and agreed to present for review and discussion by December 31,
1987, (a) detailed plans to increase the cost-effectiveness of education,
including cost recovery measures, and (b) concrete and monitorable measures
which the Government proposes to take to carry out those plans (7.Old).
Continued support for the education sector through future Bank/IDA financed
projects would be contingent upon adoption of a cost-effectiveness program
satisfactory to the Association.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND
AUDITING
Implementation
5.01      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of about six years (Annex II, Tables 4 and 5).
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991, with a
Closing Date of June 30, 1992. The implementation schedule is based, inter
alia, on experience derived in particular from the Fourth and Fifth IDA
Education Projects in Kenya. Disbursement profiles related to the country,
the region and the sector have also been taken into account (para. 5.14).
Past experience with similar projects shows a longer implementation
period. This project, however, due to the advanced status of its
preparation (para. 5.06) and the strengthening of the PIU (paras. 5.02 and
5.03), is expected to be completed within the indicated period.
5.02      Project Administration.  Implementation of the proposed project
would be the responsibility of the PIU, which was established to implement
the Second Education Project and has been responsible for carrying out all
subsequent Bank and IDA education projects.  The PIU is an agency of the
NEST, though it is physically separated from the main Ministry offices, and
is an integral part of that Ministry independent of its role in
implementing Bank Group funded education projects. The large majority of
PIU staff are regular MEST employees provided by the Government at no
direct cost to the projects which they administer. Some key technical
services are paid for with project funds, through the hiring of contract
employees or consultants, to strengthen the Unit's effectiveness in project
execution. The PIU is presently staffed with a director, a deputy
director, an accountant, a procurement officer, an educator and two
architects, all local staff, except for one of the architects whose
position is that of a locally recruited expatriate employee. To assist the
PIU in implementing the Third and Fourth Education Projects, the MOW
provided technical assistance and coordination. The services of private
architectural, engineering and quantity surveying firms were used for the
Fifth Education Project under the supervision of the MOW. Though
improvements have been made, additional assistance is needed to enable the
unit to provide stronger administrative and technical services.



- 22 -
The proposed project would add or continue to support locally contracted
technical staff to oversee or attend to key aspects of implementation, such
as architectural design, site supervision, procurement and accounting. In
addition, the internal organizational structure of the PIU requires
revision to make it more responsive to the technical and administrative
requirements placed upon it. To accomplish this, the PIU would report
directly to the Deputy Secretary for Planning and Development of the NEST,
upgrading its etatus, and its staff would be correspondingly increased
(para. 5.03).
5.03      The PIU will be headed by a Director, whose rank shall not be
less than Under-Secretary, and who shall report directly to the Deputy
Secretary for Planning and Development of the NEST. A Deputy Director
will also be appointed, who shall be a qualified architect or civil
engineer. The terms of reference and the experience of both the Director
and the Deputy Director shall be satisfactory to the Association. A
technical unit, composed of the new Deputy Director, two architects, a
civil engineer and two site supervisors, will be established within the
PIU. The accounting section and the procurement section will also be
upgraded with the hiring of at least two new experienced senior
staffmembers. About 50% of the operational expenses for project
administration (excluding Governmental salaries, but including salaries of
fixed term technical staff, such as architect, accountant, and procurement
specialist) would be financed under the project. The new staff would be
hired locally, with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
Because of difficulties in securing qualified professional services,
architectural, engineering and quantity surveying consulting firms would be
used whenever needed, and funds for their services would be provided under
the proposed project. The qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment of all specialists (consultants) financed under
this project would be satisfactory to the Bank Group and in accordance with
the Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants. At negotiations, the
G-overnment provided a detailed action plan for reorganizing and upgrading
the PIU along the lines outlined above (para. 7.01e). As a condition of
Credit effectiveness, the PIU would be strengthened as set forth in the
agreed action plan (para. 7.02).
5.04      Professional Services.  The technical unit of the PIU would be
responsible for overall physical implementation of the project. In
consultation with the MOW, it would select and nominate all required
architectural/engineering consulting firms, draft their contracts and terms
of reference, monitor and approve the work of consultants, and assist in
preparation of all tender documentation, in the opening of tenders, in
tender analysis and in contract awards. Design of facilities would also be
monitored by the technical unit for quality and for adherence to schedules
of accommodation agreed between the Association and the Government.
Particular emphasis would be given to the use of construction materials
produced locally or procured in the vicinity of the construction site, both
in the design and in the execution stage, in order to limit or reduce
project costs. The technical unit would also assist in construction
supervision, periodically visiting construction sites and reporting on the



- 23 -
ongoing activities. Any deviations from the agreed building areas,
construction details and implementation schedule would be promptly flagged
and brought to the attention of the Government and the Bank Group.
Standardized architectural plans prepared for previously Bank Group
financed education projects would be utilized whenever feasible.
Repetition of building designs and standardization of construction elements
would be emphasized in order to reduce costs.
5.05      Sites.  Sites have been selected by the NEST and local
authorities for the PTTCs. All sites are available, being communal
property or having been obtained through private donation. Every site
needs a certain amount of work for infrastructure. Road connections, water
supply, electricity supply and sewage disposal vary from site to site, and
this has been taken into consideration in costing the proposed project.
For the arid zone primary schools, the availability of land is not an
issue, all being on land tribally owned.
5.06      Status of Project Preparation.  Funds for preparation of site
surveys, architectural and engineering design, and preparation of
educational equipment lists have been made available under the ongoing
Fifth Education Project.  The PIU, with the cooperation of the MDW, has
already selected three architectural/engineering consulting firms which
would implement the physical side of the proposed project, and another firm
is in the process of being selected. Building and construction plans, as
well as equipment lists for similar institutions already implemented under
the ongoing Fifth Education Project, would be used to the extent possible
as they are, or altered as and where required. At negotiations,
preliminary architectural designs and equipment lists were submitted by the
PIU for review and comment by the Associat in. The preparation of the
proposed project consequently would be fairly advanced at the time of
effectiveness, and this would minimize delays in its subsequent
implementation.
5.07      Reportin  and Evaluation.  Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation would be submitted to the Bank Group by the PIU each January
and July after Credit effectiveness, following the format already used for
the ongoing education project. This format would be modified as deemed
necessary during the implementation of the project. Indicators of progress
in project implementation are given in Annex II, Table 6.
5.08      Not later than six months after Credit Closing Date, the PIU with
the assistance of the NEST, would prepare and provide the Bank Group with a
report evaluating the implementation, initial operation, costs and benefits
of the proposed project, and the performances of the Government and of the
Bank Group, including the significant lessons learned during
implementation.



- 24 -
Procurement
5.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
1/
(US$ Millions)
Project Categories               ICB     LCB    Other      N.A.       Total
2/-
1. Civil Works                 30.98    3.64       1.82     -         36.44
(20.13)  (2.37)    (1.18 ,             (23.68)
2. Furniture                    0.52    1.95       0.13     -          2.60
(0.40)  (1.51)    (0.10)               (2.01)
3/
3. Equipment/Vehicles           4.04    0.48       0.24     -          4.76
(3.65)  (0.42)    (0.21)       5/      (4.28)
4. T.A. SpLcialists                -       -        -     2.44         2.44
(1.71)      (1.71)
5/
5. Fellowships                     -       -        -     0.82         0.82
(0.62)      (0.62)
6. Educational                                         4/     6/
Operations                   -        -       0.25   4.59         4.84
(0-15) (2.75)       (2.90)
7. Administrative                                      3/     5/
Operations                   -        -       0.05   0.90         0.95
(0.03) (0.54,       (0-57)
8. Professional Services           -       -        -     3.13         3.13
(1.68)      (1.68)
6/
9. In-Country Training             -       -        -     0.08         0.08
(0.05)     (0-05)
Totals                   35.54    6.07       2.49  11.96         56.06
(24.18)  (4.30)    (1-67) (7.35)       (37.50)
1/  Figures in parenthesis indicate IDA share.
2/  Certain site work such as utilities connections, which would be
procured by negotiation with the Government departments performing the
work.
3/  Items not obtainable after ICB or LCB, or for which other methods of
procurement are deemed more appropriate, such as local shopping, direct
purchase of contracting, or negotiations in reference to utility
connections by Government departments, as shall be approved by the
Association.
4/  Hiscellanous curriculum development expenses (para. 3.06).
_/  See paras. 3.11 and 5.03.
6/  By statement of expenditure.
7/  Not applicable.



- 25 -
5.10      Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment, to be
directly procured by the PIU, would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. All vehicles included in the project would
also be procured through ICB. Exceptions to the above are: (a) civil works
contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each; and (b) furniture
and equipment purchase contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each. Contracts for such items would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. The aggregate cost of the works
and goods so procured shall not exceed US$1.0 million equivalent.
5.11      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles, indicating proposed grouping
and estimates of cost, would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluations by the Bank Group
prior to award would be required for contracts for civil works costing more
than US$500,000 equivalent each, and for contracts for furniture,
equipment and vehicles costing more than US$100,000 equivalent each.
5.12      When ICB is used: (a) domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment and vehicles would be allowed a preference of 15%, or the
existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) if applicable
qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5% over the prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
5.13      Disbursements (Annex II, Tables 7 and 8) would be on the basis
of:
(a) 65% of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 10OZ of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for furniture and equipment;
(c) 100% of foreign expeaditures for vehicles;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for technical assistance specialists and fellowships; and
(e) 60% of local expenditures for operational costs of
education and project administration, for inr-country
training excluding local government salaries, and for local
expenditures for professional services.
5.14      In accordance with the Association's current disbursement
practice, reimbursements, direct payments and agreements to reimburse will
only be made against applications for amounts in excess of US$20,000



- 26 -
equivalent. All disbursements would be fully documented except for those
carried out under item (e) of para. 5.13 (operational and training
expenses), and contracts, purchase orders and training costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent, which would be made against statements of expenditure
(SOE), documentation for which would not be submitted to the Bank Group for
review but would be retained by the Borrower and would be subject to an
annual audit. In addition, the documntation should be readily available
for review by IDA representatives during the course of project
supervision. The PIU is being strengthened and as a result is expected to
have the institutional capacity to use the SOE procedure and to manage the
Special Accounts. The project would be completed over a five year period.
The typical disbursement profile for Kenya is 10 years. The four previous
Bank Group supported education projects were completed on an average of six
and one-half years. Because of the experience developed and lessons
learned from the previous four projects, in particular the simplification
of project design, dealing with only one Ministry, strengthening of the PIU
and the advanced status of project preparation, a six year disbursement
period is considered adequate.
Auditing
5.15      Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under the project, in particular for those expenditures reimbursed under
SOE. Completely separate project accounts would be maintained by the
project accountant, and auditing would be performed by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group, applying sptisfactory auditing procedures.
Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months
following the end of each of the Borrowers's fiscal years. The Government
has complied with the audit covenant under the ongoing Fifth Education
Project.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would support the ongoing Government
program for development of the education sector, by providing assistance
to: increased equity of educational opportunity in primary schools;
improved quality of primary, secondary and technical education; and
institutional development by enhancing the capacity of the government to
use effectively the resources it has available for the education sector.
6.02      In particular, the proposed project would provide the following
specific benefits: increased equity through provision of boarding primary
schools in remote and deprived areas specially chosen for their need for
such schools; improvement in the quality of primary education by the
provision of additional teacher training facilities and equipment for
educational broadcasting; improvement in the quality of secondary,



- 27 -
secondary teacher and technical education by support of curriculum
development at those levels; and institution building by strengthening the
MEST Planning Unit and the PIU.
Risks
6.03     The high and increasing recurrent costs of the education sector
are issues which cause continuing concern to both the Association and the
GovernmeL -. The Government has mved to bring those costs under control by
establishing a Presidential Working Party on Education and Manpower
Training which would, inter alia, deal with the matter of controlling the
recurrent costs of education at all levels (paras. 2.20 and 4.08). This
represents a significant step forward as such bodies constitute an
effective institutional mechanism in Kenya for dealing forthrightly with
difficult policies and/or broad issues which cut across several ministries
and other entities. It is important that this and other activities aimed
at wore efficient use of resources for education be carried out promptly
and effectively. An agreement to be reached at negotiations would be
directed to that end (para. 7.01d). Any significant failure of these
efforts would be detrimental to the positive effects esrpected from the
proposed project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMNDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
on the following matters:
(a) a staffing plan for the PTTCs satisfactory to the
Association were provided (para. 3.03);
(b) assurances were given that the technical education curricula
developed under the proposed project would take into account
the results of the manpower and training requirements study
being carried out under the amended Fifth
Education Project, as they become available, having already
taken due consideration of the needs and expectations of
future employers (para. 3.06);
(c) terms of reference for specialists to be hired under the
proposed project and a plan for the fellowships and trainlng
to be undertaken (para. 3.10);
(d) presentation for review and discussion by December 31, 1987,
of (a) detailed plans to increase the cost-effectiveness of
education, including cost recovery measures, and (b)
concrete and monitorable measures which the Government
proposes to take to carry out those plans (para. 4.08); and



-28 -
(e) a detailed action plan for reorganization and upgrading of
the PIU (para. 5.03).
7.02      As conditions of Credit effectiveness, the Government would
strengthen the PIU as set forth in the agreed action plan (para. 5.03).
7.03      Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 35.0 million (US$37.5
million equivalent) to the Government of the Republic of Renya.



Octeber at. ins
corm
cov
x==  Nowa2m                                   COMPLErwo                Raw
cm toocArm     FRCORFAIfr    AD=               NM    Pon            wzr cow   plomam
=F ran              AS PZBCWr    KKPUWlrg=     LtrgLWF PRULWN rUMO             FOUtUT  PRDLUT    WE PMR    SWWMgr St=MM   NtaigN
NM        IDIP. COMA  PZMW  01111, TotAL CORRAL ALU3CWW Tor affs       =MU.         L     SMWS ODWSO    PPJMW TO  VIOLL.  SlrCDMWS  EqWLL.
nu NUU. CM) OPWO To =MMW    m  NC El  (2)  affm  CYCLE   m                                           a PENCorr SOMDAirr aww   FgR    RArm
M711) C1979)   EDWXWN  agrmzrm                 CZ)        (1976)   Cs)        (2)    TEMCK (PIP/WtrA           (2)       (t]      rgmmn       (2)
(2)       (3)                                     (6)      (7)      Cs)        (9)       (10)         (11)       912)       (13)    (14)
oavmm Cou"Rzts
AusrmTA           nu    14.0.                                                                                   21        -                        73        13      20."
at    23.7b ;-60,300b             .111:61.     ;0--n 34-st W.,          l'OOPP    110000      21       19.901'      no          92.       :4      Most'
GERNOT P.R.        79    61.2  IZ.m       4.&          :."       -    -            "b       9"       ISO       -         -           .000         "s       -        12.104
OxnalLANDS         79    14.4              7.9         3.1       20   35   25    gob?       go        95         as       13.3                     82       13       12.&n
001 ZZALOO                3.2  1:490b                 13.4       17   it  as       "b       too      too        24        11.6        ROD          82        1 3     2 I.nox*
sugm              79      8.3  12.Z30     9.0         19.2       3 1   10   to     "b       9"       100         Ins      19.9        too          y9m      l(mv    1%. yo,
PASrEM AFRICA
wtsuma            83      1 ob    "ob    7.o          1 7.0      42   zt   Is      40      too        77        J2        111.11       40         Zn       .11        I.A.1
WFANDI            As      4:;     233     2.1-        19.0       43   Zs   Z?      2 5      Z"        3 3       I 7       20.2         1 2          3-      a 7       I ib,
comms             34      0.4b    345      3AW        24.0       49   29   22      AIR      76        40        39        -            4 3         36       Zs        n.6n
nitami            86      0.4     "O      3.8         11.9        73   n    ...   10        Q                   40        6 7.0        40          1 a      19       q.6n
cmwru             8 1    32.80    140b    2.0p        11.1       4 5  2 5  20      33       &Z        3m        03        19.3         93M         1 4
KMA               62    I 7'4b   420b    SAub         20.1b      6 3   16   I I    48b      II)       so        36        14.6         1 5         in      -16
LCBRM             92      Iib    130       3.5        16.9       38   32   26      ob       116M      41        48         9.6         46         2 A       2 1       1.1n
MADAGASCAR         77     8.5     330     4.0w        34.0        33   n    19     W        96ba      33         53b       9.0         la          14       23        1.101
NAIAUX            a I     6.11,   230b    3.5         11.4       30   L4.  2 5    zsb       62        23        63         5.8         12           4       2 1      n.4f)
"warrros          83      I.Ob  I.IX0,   4.3          14.0       "    36    7    gob        93        72        23        13.0        too          30       22        1.4n
VAIMDL            83      3.90    2no    3.6          27.4       71   LA   13      376      65        30        40        I..O          I           5       14       0.40
SZTCXV.M          79      OA    1. ?70     3:11       22.48      W    31a  too    -         -         -         2 3
SaMLEA            a a     4.5    m        1.5         10. 5      job  "b   66    Mb         22.       gob       2gb        gAb         No          l2b      22        1.1in
SUDM              so    19.2b    180      3.0         -          AN   39   ...   32          Slax     AS        34         1.6                    16        14      ...
SMULLAPD          33      0.76   940b    I.Spb        20.4       51   36   1 5    63b       93        so        13        11.0         in         29        In       3AR)
TA19MLA           so    18.3    2"                    17.7       47   to   10      79b      "b        a?        43        11.0         19b          3       20-       0.30
wdmm              so    La 6D    ]Dab    -            16.1-      23b  37b  206    48         Az       61        34       -             I?           5       23       4.1bo
ZILIFA            at   Z9:sb    210b    7.7           26.4       -    -    to      56b      76        23        30       21.0          40          in       Zs       2.00
ZANSEA            so      s.?b    MO      4.3P        11.1       48   23   22      "b       93        so        48        12.9         19          16       22        1. V.
ZDUWAM9           at      7.76   joob    5.1          19.5       62   32    6      46b                35        39       20.0          83          1 3      23       0. so
mmen AFRICA
UNDI              79      1.40    120b    A.-         33.0       43   21    S    tab        42        30        46       14.0          30         It        43       I.(UW
4MDSA             all    G..;    zlob    2.1.         21. r      43   29   ZB      9        16        23        37       24.3          16          j        24       NVAI
CAMEROON          7a      a-Z     390     2.97        16.0-      338 430  2"    -           747       499       3w        RIJN         208         l4s,     16        RAW
C.A.R.             79     2.2     250     3.11"       20.6my     -    -    -      -         -         -         6397                   -          --        ---     ft. ?ea-
CMAD               76     4.4    120      2.0-r       ZI.Fb                        3        2 W       -                                -            3-      zi       G-10.
0MCD               78     1.5    670      9.0m?       27.149'                                         -         %by                    30         --        43tv     4.fOOF
GABON              77     0.6   1.4m      3.7by        4.47                                           -         "by                    -          -         19b.     Z.Rfimy
GAMUA              77     0.6     Z20     3.3im        G. sb      L6   Zp    bm   job       40by      900       27by         72        40          121-V    1 7      -
ORANA              76    11.3    4w       4.07        I s.*      ---  -    -      -         71buy    -          2 7by                  -           36b"     2 I      ---
CMIEA              79     3.3     "OP    4-6610       -          230 ZS  280   20          34        36        38        20.000       a 3         I A                7,Wm
Mff CDASr         as     4.Zb  1.070b   10.0         4LO         33   "    13    30b        60       ob         43       26.0         47          t 9-27    26       1.9mv
Ltau[A            so      1.9     20      4.6         19.6       43   23   26    30          12      '12        3 3      20.0          76         22        20       2.9n
MRLI              of      Y.Ob    190     4.20        21.74      Is   zi   a I    10        20        Ga        44        13.7                      I       I I      ".9my
MAUItLTANKA        74     JAb    IZOb    S.S          16.0       13   43   2 3    ilb       32        60                  2.0          30          9        z 3      9-.I?
gicen              711    LZ      ]OD     4-3ey       14.683'    520  436   30   4          I 7       368       &la       38.70        40          2        240-     4.207
wicizu            83    93.6b    y6ob    7.4r         16.8       -    -    12.8  36         93        70        3ok      19.3          46.7       22.3      30       2
SO[W.AL           77      5.5    430      5.0         23.0       46   34   20    to         34bXF    -          43by     -             20         30        2 1      2-,Oby
SUM" LEWIE        77      3.4     2"      4.Ob        L6.0b      -     -     -    isb       3?z       -         35       zLeb          84         I 99      22       0.6107
TOCO               Is     2.4    4w       6.3m        26.31      30m  ZBN  214  14           74       40        36by      30.0         32         32bay    48b        1.607
AMD TIEZ CUIEWO
NM, W      CA      /a    Z1.3   a.210     2.7         10.9       436  318  188   93b        at        52        ly       -             47         31         8      23.on
SAMAIMS           79     0.2   2.770      L7          19.1       36   34   it   936                   97        24       -             97         75        19
LwtlAws           78     0.2   2.680      8.3"T      22.14       436  31&  16M   "b        [our      9"         z7F      I O."        gym         NV        20.7
BOLLVIA           so      SA      530     4.07        30.Y1      -    --- -       63        FAR,      -         nw       -             ---        13r       --      12.401'
OWIL              79   116.5   1.770      3 J          6.Z       31         14    76        736Y      -         2327      4.51,       61.         I         344.    12.62b
011:1.11          76   to 9   1:690       3.2107      Mob                   -     ;-       ligbxy               307      -             ---                  zaby       VWA-
7bIinab    3                                           lb                                                                               'I.
WIDNBLA           so    ZG:                 .3        z 5.0      .5  20   20                74                  32        4.6                     4 7       20      Injany
cosrA RICIL       so      Z.Zb  [.Stab    S.&         31.1       40   27   33               93        77        13         3.3         I?         40        27      14.00
Ciraa             ye     9.8      -       8.0         11.0       --  -    -       46       alZb-     94         14by     -            99          71hay    I S      19jab.-
oannilcm  UP.    40       3.3   1.030     ZA          13.0       39   21   ZZ    bob        so        31        39        1.2          94         20        11      14.00
ECUADOR           so     8.4b  1.110      6.0p        36.r       45  31   16    As         [as       -          36       12-6         86          47        16      29.00
9L SALWAMR        77      4.4     640     3.&bY       23.1 bY    64    8   2 7   Al         NOW       Iz        in       -             4 1        z&Mw    27bf       7.4tob,
GUICEPLUA         78      6.8   1.010     t.)Uy       12.6b      -    -    --               bgbxr    -          I*v      -             69         I y-      agby     %.SW
GOTAM             76      O's     630     8.1by       13.8117    -    -    -                "bw      -          32117    -             ---        gpb-      -        3.00b-
441MI             no      3.0b    230     Mw           7.107     65   9    6    230         30        20        41        19.0         4ZA         4m       27       0.8n
mmmus             m       3.6     310     3. py       14.311F    624  191 lie   Go          49buy    300        4lbY     12.09         MP         21KY      19       8.11117
JANA=             so      2.1   1.110     6.5         13.7       37  43   20    90          98                  40        2.1         95          4 I       Z2       N.m
imim              so    65.5   I.SXO      4.7         1 7.1p          39   1 3   9z         se        33        44        9.3         86          S&        1 7     io.30
119CAMACUA        78      Z.6b   610b     3.86W       14.1111         -    -      90        SON      24         37b      -             -          26ba      lob     -
PANAM             78      1.81; 1. ssob    L 0-Y      21.11107    42a  I IS  1 3    42b     g 07     --         2 sty    I 1.6        f1s%        goby      2 ft    20.4cov
FARNMY            yo      3.0   1.140     1.4v        14.2       4Z   I 7   20    84        93       32         28        3.17         74         22        1 2      0.70
rmw               so    16.6   1.000      3.fk       L4.1        33   1 5   le    no        43        36        19        9.8                     30        22
TRMNMW & TON.   77        1.1   3.910     4.8by        siby      G11  32   zo    95         111       ol        10        10.3p        49         62        24
UNUCIFAT          is      Z.9   2. MO     Z.1          9.4b                       94       loom                 14b                               &4"       --
VZNBZUxLA         78    14.4   %46O       5.17        -4.9b                       02       I-i"K                20       ---                      -job.     I 7     Zt.I"V



-30-
W. 4
I -                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al  I
OttMr 21. 1983
m tou.fxm    macIW An.a comwas                                     wrnr tw                         I          III
0a1   UWtO         3T        *33              Nfl Fern             333 T 
Cllr   t            AS PiNr    Sr ZTUiI          LtrnAC   31TD1? P           PI611Y P11*T   Ra  PON  s1E013     SCOIIDUIY  31oa
SAM  top. CAPITA  nee33  C11 TorAl CUWNL AL3ACUD TOa  urc             *ULLO SUOL         STUWS                74U0C0   913P*3A TO  UILL.   STW?37   SNLL.
13*3 HILLS. CUSS)   .laE  TO  6D09M3           1t  361  ml   (2)    KatO  CT,az           vs.      As 35033  3101116*6      w       Pat EE      971
(39137  (3137)  atfCfUII   PullITnU           (1)        (197*1   (E)       CZ)    T6IEI  CUIPCAP1A          (2)        (2)   r0131        (1%
E(3           (23       (33           ()           (3)         ()       r7)       (a)       (9)       (l0)        (13)       (121       (133    (341
UN stA MOD1 TNE iCVIC
CIl"^A -              I D6 *.03.    *106   3.1'       7.1       36   40   22      7b       77       62        23         5.10        S3         33       17        &.uo
InEoIEA           Si   I 33.36    32Yn    2.1         9.1       70  24     6    32b       9S        63        317       I.0         la          27       26       3.3n
9Uac              62    39.3b  I636       7.7'       20.6       3    14     33    96       99       96 M                 9.0        9           14      31        21.4
P1A3AYrIA                15.2b  310 6o.1             3.7        39W  43   1'    703        972      97        26        3.           9          72       22       *.o
PAPUA I*.G.       33     3.0    6"        3.4        39.0       40   17  22      -         60       13*       33I-      33.0         33        13        27'     13.4
RIELIPPJIES       79   4561      6906    2.3'        14.0       6    36   -       753     64        63        31         7.1        m9          5S       34      13.fa
SUCII*66E         so     2.4   *.420      2.7         6.7       39   40  lb    *3        12        32        13        6.4         96          53                I ..".
Slb3W3W  ISL.     *2     0.2b   b40       6.63'      3.9b       41   34   20      15       is       an        27        In3.        40          20      1J        * V
T.AIL93D          *2    9*.b    soob    3.42          0.1        9    14  10 a     36b    lo       63         21        9.3         U    44             3 to     4.*30
solmt ASIA
BIcLASSU3         79    92.3b     90      3.I3       Inj0.      33   37  20      226       63?      -         33         3.6        -           14       21       3.43
1111*             30      1.2     m0      3 .        11.0       -    -    -       10       12       -         -         -           ---                 __ _  -_
INDIA              7 763.6       210      2.97        S.9'      -         -      36        78'      -         61       -I-                                -       4.1A0
NCEAL             32   I330       3I 3b 1.4         -             -19                      70       -         3S        -             _         21       21        I."
3*31973           52    67.31    3010    2.0          7.0       33   20  24      22        3        41        30          .          M          23 3a             1.13
ceU3PE     O   11 AD POEM3 IPICA
AF53ISFMI         77      3.s1   -        1.7         3.7       47  19   is    12          3313    69         376      -            62           a       223      3.0W
ALGERIA           79    18.3   1.770      1.3'       12.3       3W8  2    213   3*         637      436       J7         7.0?       s3          29       26      3S10y
301W              62    43.38    69       4.6'        7.9       318  33  2a"     44        79t      BOR       314       9J8         *38        438      139      I 7.40
GChC!             76      9.3   * 140     2.6'       10.66      37   26  23       -        I7rb     -         296        6.2?       -           796      27b     37.4*'
[Kw               79    36.9     -       5.78 1      34.18      -     -    -      D       IOI10     -         328      -            --         44-8       4       &.9
13o               79    12.   2.710      4.3*7        6.9'y     -    -    -      -       l0w        -         23-                              4_        29 8     **30
ID13.33     0      1     35b* 4.C30      6.3b1       33587      -     -     -    96       93        9         2        -             S         S1                13400
JDM               at     2*21  1.420b   4.9*         10.2       19  44   to       70b     1o06      63        32         7.2        93          02'      25      36.00
LZCAPON           19    2.3      -        --         3S6.68?    -         -      --       96-       -         19       -            --         46*       -       2 I11n3
MORN=             so    3.35    740       6.3_       17.3       36   44  20       33       387      335       39        19.7        40          236      21       4.*0
OIM                2 O   3  0.b592b    2.-           12.7'                        33 'A"   733      63        25        -            as   11             14
337fo0*L .        79     9.8b2 D00        3.A        22.2       3D 2       11    7        97        20        198      12A          so         436       178   4 :3I'
3UiA             76   22.1   2.100      3.913        6.2D      -    - -         9s      1066*      -         23       -            91         346*      22*     la.6.b
SPAIN             76    37.0  4.920       2.1?       t'.    -          _    _ -  - _       M        -         29       -            -          67k'    -         24.303b
5S1YR             73     5.6  13170      4.6p        3W.3       39   23  26       M       3767      30        376      -            be         4316      234     12.60
TiNISA             19     6.4  3I.il1     7.0r       39.0       42   39  in    62b        100p      no        39b       323.         30         38'      30       %.on
TOUSY              3      47.5 1.230      3.3        16.2       n3  22   24       736    I3a        77        31         6.0         SS         26       131       3.0
Tg63  4.R.        M0     6.6  *20         3.03,      12.0       9      7    7    213       37       12        33       67.0         63           3       20       3.10
T0O   P.D0.V      62     2.61    4206   7.6           *.7       63U  140   8    33        *1        34        23       22.0n        44          17       20       2.30
S3391lr  FOR DEDrODI  03ITEES:
3ih.br of Countries.                   84              93      70    9   67    SI        92        IS        95       65           73         91        no      35
383.                                   (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  f3-  35-   (5-      (12-      C12-       (317-    (1.4-        (o-         1-       is      (13.03-
3n.0)         36.3)  963   46) 33)    99)      1193      99)        77)      67.03        300)       646      433      29.0)
Q'artlles  Dppr:                         5.6          21.7     31  3S   22    *1        9s         SD        43       20           D7         47        26      33.0
_il4.:                       4.0          16.1    63   22   19       M        63       *3         33       13             3        2*       22        3.7
Lowart                       3.0          11.0    38   21   13       25       60       33         26        9           40         14       39        3.0
QwmrLul. On-latlm,                       1.3          S3      6.3  7.3 4.3   2.5         9 1.0   22.3       7.0       3.6         23.3       36.3      3.S       3.0
IN.":                                   4.4           17.0     46  26   is       33       76       it        36       13           62          31       23       6.9
Standard Dylastsm:                       1.9           3.7     12   10    7    29        27        26        13       13           27         23         7       7.4
11,is3*:                                 4.0          16.0     43  23  19        33       33       61        35        13          63          2*       22       3.7
S33303.:                                                            '00130513:
-        i  NAVAXIA.E                                                 A - DWAn  P333  TO  Sc TYAR               S - NJIWRtE OF  0rM  35  (MR) ONLY
qA33lDE *IL O  IEELICIU.6                                        1 - mm"3l 01C IIT Tll3  "a 33            T I- ME MD E   Art  I    THPW OILY
Daum 33UE933                                                     I - O33333  PUICES                        W - P1U1  C 3X3Dt3C0   OILY
IIDCIS AE-'r!im 3TIS                                             P - CDC                                      - 1DCL       cc 093R-ACE SI3I?S
T - UNESCO SOCIK
SOUCES:         Colums I mod 2: Wor14  mank ALlas  r Cdueetle  sector fieU sld asdae
Calv     3 to 14:  oUld lank *S c tal_  _eter slas1iom. C_ov.r_uet srces aa/or 1r_  DRBC  ktl atl 3l.1 Terrbk.
Caaal  Siaertian  atta atr useful 1in 13_.eutlas of warless edecatim  Gsea  an d analy   at rlatlv   Ma.r or adect-laal dI leve-It beLwava Various
co.triaa. Newr. wr the bajla of COW 3WeseL data. CVea.aIlmeal Car_t1_  s_IUd be a_pealcad OIL% treat ce_t1_n. DOtS PMiMtd In 16. ah                          L8hZ, he"l
ben collected larzly by lAnk 1Atatma Iraa gvernmnt _easarea; the rmtdr  are aaf *stisee  or data frm  Meama. Iffort. he. bean M140 LO a.aedardl
detfitloes ad. within limits. tlO c6.c* 1I. acuracy Of the dela. U14rL b_le. Jet d           are .tC±1II I_*rrfCL tn se_ral raape  and L%w I*ab 1 WoV6iOE L.
Prow  the         Oawelvn LM OCCeo-l_ Nt Of IL. apr=        a ok.  In t3. bW  ot theae dAta. the tnl_I.   maltiCtIaa    Mld  be bowot SR 0104:
(1)   *1datlea  as de laud In the table Snclude all educatlei   ad tra1lon1. both f*erl and nafoer_l.
(2)  -Pl_ry7 eda ctla  reform to educLItle41. ate flrat level and  alecadri' adacn raterst  aL11 adscatl_n aL tim a.cndry le"l rswrdlee  of type
(4.. a_seal. techmleal. agricaltt_tf).
(3)    Lltaracy reC--r (cal. 6) ar osftn eotalned Era cauntry rensm             IN 1 _n, m .triee the  are onl _ P1r6lMtlM Md 1t ts daubtIfl L1.1 way u   aIf
d-flaLtlm of  l1terat.- boa bean fallaa.d conatatently.
(4)   -publc    Iatra  In education- (cola. 4 and  ) refer. te aLl capital and recurrent _Ipanlt.res devotad Le actl_m  by _ble NOE omal-pablc
alaacl0a.
(3)     relmast ral.d     (cola. 7. 12 and 14) refer tL  aceol 7ear ad am the prnlta    f e litile childrsa erolled tell-tLlw la t1 w   pPefrapLsL  Kcel.
ebltic and privae by le_l. T6y are oftn ibjcl Le a .14. etxi Of ao _       rrer nb. t_         SIMP1_   COWntr-es seinf to  arULts_- 3. Ch. ACrCaCY  of baaic
date (I... * aea-aecftc ppulatt_ aad snrallsents).  E.rellaat fSIra Cretnaly arm bl1her them the amber f d at-denLa  Itl  In  S1.
Oer_elad etudeaLe Ga be included 11 them fl_ra ad cmn lStle tb  r tle_



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIKARY EDUCATION ENROLLNENTS, 1964-1984.
(Percent female in parentheses. where available)
(Thousands)        
GRADE (Standard)
Year    Std. I    Std. 2    Std. 3    Std. 4    Std. 5    Std. 6    Std. 7    Std. 86   Total    Graduate.
1964    180.3       147.8     139.7       145.0     134.0      122.6      144.4      33.9       1,047.7    N.A.
1968    250.8      207.8      178.5      158.9      132.7      134.2      146.8        -        1,209.7  157.0
(43.12)   (42.82)   (42.12)   (41.22)   (39.22)   (36.32)   (31.5Z)           -        (40.1X)
1972    357.4      279.7      256.6      221.0      192.3      185.4      183.2        -        1,675.6  187.6
(44.62)   (44.6%)   (44.02)   (43.52)   (43.32)   (40.92)   (36.6Z)           -        (42.9X)
1976    571.9      545.7      597.7      382.7      300.7      253.0      243.2        -        2,894.6  236.4
(47.2Z)   47.72)    (47.8Z)   (46.5X)   (45.22)   (44.52)   (40.5Z)           -        (46.3X)
1977    603.3      489.9      512.8      511.2      338.8      281.7      237.1        -        2,974.6  228.2
(47.1%)   (47.32)   (47.92)   (47.82)   (46.22)   44.92)    (41.62)           -        (46.62)
1978    599.1      479.3      455.2      467.0      433.7      302.1      258.5        -        2,994.9  252.7
(47.0X)   (47.32)   (47.4%)   (48.2X)   (47.5%)   (45.52)   (41.82)           -        (46.8X)
1979    977.4      579.6      508.0      483.2      450.9      417.4      281.7        -        3,698.2  268.5
(47.92)   (47.2X)   (47.5X)   (47.82)   (48.12)   (46.5Z)   (42.32)           -        (47.22)
1980    906.1      722.3      547.8      496.0      456.7      446.4      351.4        -        3,926.7  328.0
(48.52)   (47.8X)   (47.4X)   (48.02)   (48.2Z)   (47.52)   (42.72)           -        (47.52)
1981    844.5      705.0      626.1      515.6      461.0      460.5      368.5        -        3,981.2  328.0
(48.3%)   (48.5Z)   (48.1%)   (48.12)   (48.2%)   (48.12)   (43.42)           -        (47.82)
1982    908.8      695.2      654.9      578.8      484.9      490.6      371.5        -        4,184.7  348.0
(48.5Z)   (48.22)   (48.9X)   (48.22)   (48.42)   (48.0Z)   (43.32)           -        (47.9Z)
1983    890.0      710.7      662.2      617.7      537.3      520.7      385.3        -        4,323.9  349.9
(48.22)   (48.32)   (48.62)   (48.9Z)   (48.52)   (47.72)   (43.92)           -        (48.02)
1984    864.3      707.1      658.5      625.5      557.5      514.8      453.0        -        4,380.3  354.4               'U
(48.32)   (48.2Z)   (48.5Z)   (49.32)   (49.3Z)   (48.12)   (44.82)           -        (48.2Z)
Source: NEST
a)  Standard 8 discontinued after 1966.



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SECONDARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS (INCLUDING PRIVATE AND HARAMBEE SCHOOLS), 1964-1984
(percent female in parentheses, where available)
Year    Form I        Form II       Form III       Form IV       Form V        Form VI       Total
1964    12,712         9,122         7,035          5,625            864          563         35,921
1967    31,805       26,592         16,880         10,756          1,622        1,124         8X,779
(26.3Z)      (24.1%)       (25.4%)        (25.9X)        (21.1%)      (19.8X)       (25.2x)
1972    53,480       43,878         30,993         26,869         3,688         3,002        161,910
(33.7%)      (32.62)       (30.0)        (27.4%)        (24.82)      (22.9%)       (31.3%)
1976    94,834       75,318         54,788         45,617         5,208         4,623        280,388
(40.5%)      (37.82)       (35.3%)        (32.3%)        (29.22)       (26.5%)      (37.02)
1978   104,654      109,585         75,216         60,256         6,380         5,531        361,622
(43.0Z)      (41.9Z)       (38.72)        (35.2%)        (30.9%)      (26.4%)       (40.0%)
1979   109,174       97,605         89,677         71,853         8,746         7,334        384,389
(43.22)      (42.5%)       (40.72)        (36.9%)        (30.42)      (30.92)       (40.82)
1980   112,405      100,497         84,795         82,607        10,795        8,808         399,389
19818  123,460      102,562         85,541         78,231        11,186        8,870         409,850
1982   129,602      113,564         90,406         84,324        10,583        9,865         438,344
1983   139,614      126,616        103,026        101,263        11,554        11,637        493,710
1984   150,498      116,606        110,768        105,260        13,543        11,878        508,553
Source: MEST
a)  For 1981, the distribution of enrollment by type of school was as follows:                                              |
females as 2 of
2 total enrollment   total enrollment
schools           41.1                 33.2
Assisted secondary schools               21.8                 25.7
Harambee and private schools             37.1                 41.1



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION, RATES OF PUPIL PROGRESSION, 1975-1983
Promotion to           C,
Std, I       Std. 2       Std. 3        Std. 4       Std. 5       Std. 6        Std. 7   Secondary    Internal
Year      Ra   DD      R    D       R    D        R    D       R    D       R    D        R         School        Efficiency
1975    .05  .18    .04  .16    .06  .08    .06  .10    .05  .05    .07  .05    .15                    .34           49Z
1976    .06  .14    .05  .06    .05  .13    .06  .10    .06  .06    .07  .08    .09                    .42            57
1977    .23  .02    .06  .07    .06  .08    .05  .14    .07  .11    .08  .12    .13                    .44            53
1978    .11  .01    .11    0    .10    0    .10  .02    ,09  .04    .13  .07    .15                    .44            86
1979    .13  .21    .14  .03    .13  .02    .13  .05    .13  .03    .16  .11    .16                    .41            59
1980    .14  .18    .12  .11    .13  .05    .13  .06    .12  .02    .16  .12    .13                    .40            51
1981C    -    -        -    -       -    -       -    -        -    -       -    -       -             .35             -
1982C    -    -        -    -       -    -       -    -        -    -       -    -       -             .35             _
1983C    -    -        _    _       _    _       _    _        _    _       _    _       -             .38 5
Source:  MEST
a) - Repetition rates (fraction of students enrolled in grade)
b) - Drop-out rates (fraction of students enrolled in grade)
C) - Estimated percent of standard I entrants who would complete
standard 7 at these rates of repetition and drop-out.
d) - Data not available for 198t-1983
IV
o na



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIHARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS BY PROVINCE, 1984.
GROSS ENROLLMENT                      ENROLLMENTS BY GRADE (thousands)
RATE (Pereent)                        (Percent female in parentheses)
PROVINCE    Hales    Females    Std. 1    Std. 2    Std. 3    Std. 4    Std. 5    Std. 6    Std. 7    TOTAL
Central       106.7Z   107.1Z    127.5       114.5      109.5      109.6     104.7      101.5      83.2      750.5
(48.2Z)   (48.3Z)   (49.81)   (51.2Z)   (51.31)   (50.5S)   (48.0S)   (49.61)
Coast          95.2     79.9       56.0       47.6       44.5       40.1      34.9       31.3       27.5     281.9
(45.5S)   (45.32)   (43.52)   (44.1Z)   (42.7X)   (40.6Z)   (37.7Z)   (43.3Z)
Eastern       105.1    104.9      147.2      128.8      121.4      118.8     106.9      101.71    88.0       812.8
(49.32)   (48.92)   (49.12)   (50.62)   (51.11)   (50.02)   (46.52)   (49.4X)
Rlft Valley  109.9    101.5       195.0      157.1      145.5      139.0     120.3      106.4       95.6     958.9
(47.5Z)   (47.8Z)   (48.11)   (48.4Z)   (47.9Z)   (46.62)   (43.4X)   (47.3Z)
Nyanza        113.7    104.6      191.3      137.4      124.4     113.1       98.2       86.6       82.3     833.1
(48.22)   (48.O)   (48.7%)   (49.22)   (48.12)   (46.7Z)   (41.82)   (47.62)
Westeen       119.3    119.1      125.2      101.0       93.5      86.1       75.2       71.8       62.5     615.3
(50.0X)   (50.1X)   (49.2Z)   (50.12)   (51.5Z)   (49.4Z)   (46.8Z)   (49.72)
North Eastern 21.5      10.0        3.9        3.2       2.8        2.4        1.8        1.5        1.2      16.8
(35.9Z)   (31.11)   29.22)    (24.42)   (23.5X)   (25.62)   (22.31)   (29.02)
Nalrobia       77.9     68.1       18.2       17.5       17.1       16.4      15.1       14.0       12.7     111.0
(49.5X)   (48.1X)   (48.52)   (49.6X)   (48.7X)   (49.4Z)   (48.42)   (48.9X)
KENYA         105.8Z   100.42    864.3       707.1      658.5     625.5      557.1      514.5     453.0   4,380.3
(48.32)   (48.21)   (48.52)   (49.3X)   (49.32)   (48.1Z)   (44.82)   (48.22)
Source:  MEST, and calculations based on Central Bureau of Statistics and KEST statistics.
a)  KEST officlals indicate that enrollment ratlos for Nairobi are disproportioe-tely low bezause of more accurate   g j
methods of birth registration and population estlmatlon there than elsewhere.



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIKARY EDUCATION, TEACHERS BY LEVEL OF QUALIFICATION, 1984
(Percent female ln parentheses, where available)
UNTRAINED
PUPILS                           With 2 or more         With lose
PER                              years of secondary    than 2 years
PROVINCE          NUHDER OF TEACHERS        TEACHER        TRAINEDa               education         secondary educatlun
Central                  20,627                  36.4           90.82                    8.7X                0.52
(42.3Z)
Coast                      7,272                 38.8           64.9                    32.9                 2.2
(29.82)
Eastern                   23,511                 34.6           70.9                    26.9                 2.2
(31.5X)
Rift Valley               26,307                 36.5           69.1                    28.4                 2.5
(28.92)
Nyanza                    24,379                 34.2           60.4                    39.1                 0.5
(23.6Z)
Vestern                   17,076                 36.0           72.8                    26.4                 0.8
(33.3Z)
North Eastern                521                 32.2           63.7                    23.8                12.5
(13.8Z)
Nairobi                    3,095                 35.9           99.8                     0.1                 0.1
(76.8Z)
Kenya                   122,788                  35.7           72.4Z                   26.1                 1.5
(Z female)               (32.32)                                (33.82)                (27.5Z)               (45.7Z)
Source: HEST
a)  Teachers who have attended PTTCs, or who have qualified by Lnservice training.



- 36 -
KENYA                                        Annex I
Table /
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES, 1975-1984
Percentage
Year    Total Enrollment        Female
1975           7,926              37.3%
1976           7,915              36.9%
1977           7,723              37.2Z
1978           8,201              38.2%
1979           8,968              39.2%
1980          10,911              40.3%
1981          11,350              42.9%
1982          11,420              41.4%
1983          11,220              41.7%
1984          12,601              41.2%
Source:  MEST



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Thousands)
PROJECTION OF DEFICIT OF TRAINED TEACHERS, 1986-2000
Without Proposed Nev PTTCe                       With Proposed New PTTCe
Teachereb Trained0           Untrained         Percent       TrainedC           Untrained         Percent
Year    Needed    Teacher Output    Teacher Stock    Untrained    Teacher Output    Teacher Stock    Untrained
1986    138,184   5,600                  39,110             28.3          5,600             39,110             28.3
1987    139,500   5,600                  36,208             26.0          5,600             36,208             26.0
1988    141,436   8,600                  30,939             21.9          8,600             30,939             21.9
1989    143,626   5,600                  28,943             20.2          5,600             28,943             20.2
1990    146,585   5,600                  27,738             18.9          5,600             27,738             18.9
1991    150,598   8,600                  24,859             16.5         10,620             22,932             15.2
1992    155,757   5,600                  25,924             16.6          7,527             22,070             14.2                                        1
1993    161,102   5,600                  27,227             16.9          7,527             21,446             13.3                                       w
1994    166,818   8,600                  25,954             15.6         13,020             15,526              9.3
1995    172,553   5,600                  27,757             16.1          7,527             15,402              8.9
1996    178,420   5,600                  29,750             16.7          7,527             15,468              8.7
1997    184,486   8,600                  29,000             15.7         13,020             10,071              5.5
1998    190,759   5,600                  31,518             16.5          7,527             10,662              5.6
1999    197,244   5,600                  34,311             17.4          7,527             11,528              5.8
2000    203,950   8,600                  34,389             16.9         13,020              6,959              3.4
Sourhe:  Calculationa based on estimates supplied by MEST and Unesco.
Notese  a)  Base year figurees  1985 teachers needed, 136,154; 1985 untrained teacher stock 41,318.
b)  Unesco entimates through 1995, 3.4X annual increment thereafter.  A gradual Increase in pupil-teacher
ratio Is included li these projections.
c) Prlor year untrained teacher stock, plus Increase ln teachers needed, plum attrition on entire teacher
force, less trained teacher output. The attrition rate of 12 is based on recent experience and In a
conservative estimate.
I-,,
ClxH



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI, ENROLLMEUrS BY SUBJECT AREA, 1983/84
(Percent female In parentheses, where available)
Subject                   Undergraduate        Postgraduate
Agriculture                        468 (18.42)          145 (16.6Z)
Architecture & Design               226 (12.8Z)          50 (8.0Z)
Building & Land Economics           151 (25.22)           -
Arts                             1,154 (35.02)          282 (29.12)
Commerce                            507 (34.3S)          64 (14.1Z)
Engineering                         519 (2.3Z)           42 (7.12)
Law                                 325 (40.92)          15 (33.3Z)
Medicine                            540 (19.8Z)         252 (18.7Z)
Science                            817 (12.02)          274 (15.7Z)
Veterinary Mediclne                 307 (11.72)          61 (18.0%)
Dental Surgery                       70 (50.02)           -
Pharmacy                            104 (26.02)           -                                                      a
Journallsm                           -                   22 (22.72)
Computer Science                     -                    15 (13.32)
Education                        2,140 (48.22)          608 (27.52)
Total                       7,328 (30.22)        1,830 (22.02)
Source:  MEST
a) Education an4 some arts courses are given at Kenyatta University College, (for the tim
being a part of the University of Nairobi), and sao post-graduate education courses at the
University of Nairobi main campus. All other cour%es are given at the main campus, except for
agriculture and veterinary medicine, which are located at Kebete, near Nairobi.
LI



-39 -                     Annex I
Table 10
SIXT EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMAED RECURRENT SXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION AND
TRAINING IN MINISTRIES OTHER THUN mEST  1984/85
MEEITURE
(It Thousands)         Z OF BUDGET
MINISTRY
Health                        4,870.6                  7.1
Water Development               370.0                  1.0
Cooperative Developuent         300.9                  8.8
Agriculture and Livestock
Development                9,621.0                 16.5
Commerce and Industry           311.3                  6.4
Transport                       669.7                  9.4
Labour                        1,086.9                 20.7
Culture and Social Services   4,707.6                 42.3
Local Government              8,§W .ob                62.4
TOTAL                     29,938.0
(as Z of Government
Recurrent Budget)        (3.7)
Source: IBRD, Porward Budget Reviev, 1985.
a) Excludes (because of lack of data) the Office of the
President and the Ninistry of Defense in which there are
extenslve education-related activities.
b) Teacher salary costs for the larger ianicipalities.



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT. GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE
AND EDUCATION EXPENDITURE, 1980781 - 1987/88
(Thousands of Kenya Pounds; Current prices through 1983/84; Constant 1983/84 prices thereafter)
1980/81      1981/82       1982/83      1983/84a    1984/85b    1985/86C         1986/87C       1987/88C
GDP                   2,632,500   3,038,600   3,399,500   3,808,700            N.A.         N.A.          N.A.           N.A.
GOVERNKENT
EXPENDITURES
Total                  972,061    1,122,320   1,190,694   1,302,149           N.A.       1,093,319f   1,161,660f    1,198,500f
Recurrentd             593,571       716,322      715,472       793,020      815,907       763,599       799,045        838,,736
Capitale               259,601       221,196      179,095       229,476      425,866       329,720       362,615        359,764
Interest & Loan
Repayments           118,889       184,802      296,127       279,653       N.A.           N.A.          N.A.           N.A.
EDUCATICN
EXPENDITURESB
Total                  176,321       179,670      206,429       224,009      249,498       267,046       283,781        296,064
(% of Govt.            (18.1)        (16.0)       (17.3)        (17.2)       (20.1)        (24.4)f       (24.4)f        (24.7)f
Expenditures)
Recurrent               162,350      180,595      192,137       205,093      232,344       250,476       264,707        278,979
(2 of Govt. Recurrent
Expenditures)       (27.4)        (25.2)       (26.9)        (25.9)       (28.5)        (32.8)        (33.1)         (33.3)
Capital                  13,971       17,074        14,292       18,916        17,154       16,570         19,074        17,085
(Z of Govt. Capital
Expenditures)        (5.4)         (7.7)        (8.0)         (8.2)        (4.0)         (5.0)         (5.3)          (4.7)
Educatlon Expenditures
as X of GDP          6.7           5.9          6.1           5.8          N.A.          N.A.          N.A.           N.A.
9 .
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Abstract, 1984; World Bank, Forward Budget Review, 1985.                              cr
m x
*   Not Available                                                                                                                      -AM
a)  Provisional.
b)  Revised budget estimates.
c)  Approved estimates, from Forward Budget Review.
d)  Excluding interest on debt, and other fixed costs.
e)  Excluding loan repayments.
f)  Excluding interest, loan repayments, and other fixed costs.



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EXPENDITURES OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 1980/81 - 1983/84
(Thousands of Kenya Pounds)
1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84a    1984/85b
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
General Administration
and Planning               6,582.4       6,576.3      9,249.5     LO,435.0     16,962.0
Pre-Primary Education          --             62.5         90.1        131.2         169.6
Primary Education           96,717.5    107,163.5    112,154.3    107,781.8    130,842.4
Secondary Education         18,089.3      21,771.5     24,880.3     20,775.9     30,088.8
Technical Education          1,456.0       1,591.7      1,025.9      1,319.6        -
Teacher Training             4,844.4       5,460.9      6,875.6      7,525.8      9,741.1
Special Schools                585.5         655.0        739.0        913.9      1,015.0
Polytechnic Education        2,178.2       2,440.9      2,103.3      2,378.0      4,889.7
Universities                16,747.8      18,704.8     14,662.4     16,946.2     23,026.8
Miscellaneous                2,333.7       1,539.1      5,770.2      4,205.3       1,235.7
Total             149,534.8    165,966.1    177,550.6    172,412.7    217,971.2
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
General Administration
and Planning                 625.8       2,023.2        470.4      1,637.6        841.8
Pre-Primary Education          --            --           --           --            --
Primary Education              946.4         546.2      1,428.0        492.5      1,708.5
Secondary Education          1,779.7       2,162.8      3,257.2      2,106.9      2,085.8
Technical Education            572.4       1,115.0        145.5        409.0        --
Teacher TraLning               446.5       1,694.9        101.0      2,368.0       1,839.1
Special Education              147.0         165.0      1,694.5        187.4        936.5
Polytechnic Education        4,932.0         974.2         18.1        342.5      1,822.8
Universities                  1,166.8      2,577.6      2,760.9      2,834.7      4,667.8
Miscellaneous                  --             --           84.3         60.0        --
Total              10,616.6      11,258.9      9,959.9     10,538.6     13,902.0
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics, Economic Survey, 1984.                                                       I-H
a) Provisional.
b) Printed budget estimates.



- 42 -                  Annexc I
Chart 1
W-WWtW- -                                     - o
-       I *                             NI
4~ ~ f   -
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<



KENYA
Education Enrollment PVramid - 1984
POFAATION OF
STANDARD AGE
STANDARD
AGE                                    MALE                                       FEMALE                                           Melo       FrNde
21                                                                                                                                  173        177
UNrVEl rY         20                                                        5    2.2                                                                   la1       183
19                                      |88                                                                                                    189
FORM V,           18                                                         8   4                                                                     195        195                         L
FORM v            17                                                          9  4                                                                     203       201
FORM N            1'                                                                                                                                   211       208
-. .. .  g~~~~~~~~~~................
FORMIII           15                                                                                                                                   218       216
FOHM 11           14                                 _                  1  * _                          - 1                                            226        224
M  I              13                                                                                                                                  235        234
STANJUARU         12 I                                                                                  I                                              244       244
I.-. .__   ____                 __ _ _ _ _    _,
SIANDARU  6       11                                                                                - - -                                              257       257
STANDARD 5        10                          .                                                                                                        272        273
r i'-                                    -- -            - - 
STANDARD4          9                     31 09                                                                                                         293       293
SIANDMARD 3        8                  339                                                                             319                              312       313
STANDARD 2          1                        __1                                                                                                       341        34_
SIANDADL) I        6     447                 _        .9 _
I    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~~~                                       ~~I  I  I  I  I  I _  I
400         300        200         100         0          100         2W         300         400                                                         n  :
(Ihousonds)                                                                                                  D
Notes - Enrollmnents Source Ministrv of Eaucation. Science & tochnology
- Populotion Source. World Bank. IRMD
*1979 Femle percentages are used to disaoggeate secondcky ev  b genoe?                   Population                                       V0nd Bank-27620



KEWA
Mlnistry of Educatlon, Science and Technology
Organizatlon Chart
A.lant.       Auus"ont Mnws   &w
Fo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Secrota,
-               |            --1          --r~~~---------l
Depuv yS crertarj   DetSv Seaeytov  Cta      Stour.
_(ptvn&l b      (Frborce &     KUnst ktitueu Y ThnS SW
CIochu EducatCon)       ?    Education)
VbId w*-21622
'I!



- 45 -
ANNEX II
KENYA                                            Table 1
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
(SR million)         (05$ million)               I Total
Z forein Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total F.xchme   Costs
A. PRIMA   EUCATION
Primary Teachers Training Colleges           280.54  152." 433.52  17.53   9.56 27.0?          35      67
Arid Zne P.S.                                 24.66   15.97  40.63   1.54   1.00 2.54          39        6
Education Media Suort                          5.09  16.84 21 .3   0.32   2.05  1.37           77        3
Su-Total PRIIM   EDUCATiON                      310.2?  185.79 496.08  19.3?  11.62 31.00         37      7
B. SECWND   AND EICAL EUCATIN
Curricula Development                         31.86   38.59  70.45   1.9?   2.41  4.40         55       11
Sub-Total SECONDARY  ND T NICAL EUCATION        31.86   38.59 70.45  I.       2.41  4.40         55      11
C  INSTITRTIONAL DEELOPEN
ES Planing Unit                                1.92    3.77  5.6   0.12   0.24 0.36            66       1
Teachers Service Comission                    0.23    2.50   1.73   0.01    '.0  0.11         16        0
Sb-Totl INSTITTIOFNL  IIEELPNENT                 2.16   5.26   7.42   0.13   0.33  0.46          71        1
D. PROFESSIONAL SERVIE                          21.75   16.74  38.4?   1.36    1.05  2.41        44        6
E. PROJECT ANINSTIl                             20.67   16.70 37.37   1.2?   1.04  234           4r.       6
Total JASELM  cOSm                               386.72 263.09 649.81  24-.7   16.44 40.61         40      100
Physical Contincies                            30.89   16.05 46.94   193    2.00 2.93           34        7
Price Contingencies                           127.27   72.95 200.22   7.95   4.56 12.51         36       31
Total POJECTCOSTS                                544.8B  352.0880 .96  34.06  22.0 M5.06           39      138
December 23. 1985 15:12



-46 -                                      ANNEX II
Table 2
KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
(SH Killion)         (US$ Nillion)               2 Total
Z Foreign  los
Local Foreign Tot;l  Local Foreigi, Total Exchmnue   Cots
A. CIVIL 4ORKS
Site Marks                      46.81   19.77 66,59   3.05   1.24 4.2?           29      11
Academic I Comunal              92.14   37.33 12.47  5.76   2.33 6.09            29      20
Dormitories                     6v.23  28.05 97.28  4.33   1.75 6.08             29      15
"ousing                         78.i8  31.83  10.42  4."    1.99  ,90            29      17
Sub-Total CIVIL KM                24.76 116.9  405.74  18.05   7.11 75.36          29       62
P. FINtWITtRE
Academic I Comunal               7.41   10.56  17.97   0.46   0.66  1.12         59       3
- arding                         5.20   7.41  12.60  0.32   0.46 0.79           St        2
Sub-Total FURNITlUE                12.61  17.97 30.58  0.79   J12  1.91            59        5
C. EhUIPMENT/VEHICLES               5.89  52.29 58.16   0.37   3.27 3.64           90        9
P. TEOINXCAL ASSISTANCE
Speialists                      19.26  12.13  31.39   1.20   0.76 1.96           39       5
Fellowships                         -  11.01  11.01      -   0.69 0.69          100       2
Sub-Total TECNtICAL ASSISTANCE     19.26  23.14  42.40  1.20   1.45 2.65           55        7
E. OPERAnoTIOL cosTs
Education Operations            31.55  29.69 61.23  1.97   1.8  3.83             46       9
Project Ioplementation           6.20   5.64  12.04   0.39   0.36 0.75          48        2
Sub-Total OPERATIONAL COSTS        37.75  35.52  73.27  2.36   2.22 4.58           48       11
F. PROFESSIONAl SERVICES           21.75  16.74 38.49   1.36   1.05 2.41           44        6
6. IN-CUNM  TRAININ6                0.71   0.44   J.15  0.04   0.03 0.07           39        0
Total B4SELINE COSTS                  386.72 263.09 649.81  24.17  16.44 40,61         40      100
Physical Continencies               30.89  16.05 46.94   1.93   1.00 2.93           34        7
Price Contingenwies                127.27  72.95 200.22  7.95   4.56 12.51          36       31
Total PROJECT COSTS                   54.88 352.08 696.96  34.06  22.01 56.06          39      138
December 23 IM85 15:12



-47 -                                                     ANINhX U1
Table 3
SIMTl EDUCATION PRWECT
PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT AND CATEGORY
IIIII  ENTWI              Y     1    JllrllltlU
_RIOSI lUcAIIOE       UIEULM           INlITINDff
Pv1aa                        EIiDTIUU         - -                                               Prlulc
Teed..           Etu    ----     lST   Teecluri.                                              ConlUnit its
TMnriu llid ZWt Nie         Culcrriulu  Pleniaw   Irniie   FUFSMI          pUECT
col.n   P.s.    Iwpet    hvlemt  uit  Cmzm seen   BCUs    MIshTIn  Tel.                        3   Amunt
A. CMVL a
Site Vrks                        45.70     2.t                                                                         M.5x  10.0   6.
Ac c I C        l               11.94      9.53        -             -       -         -            -              - 1.47  10.0  12.95
brlteries                        35.45    116          -             -       -         -            -              -  97.28  tO.o   9.73
buNi                            102.76     7.          -             -       -                      -              - 310.42  10.0  11.04
ub-Toda CiVI NU                    374.05    316                   _                                                     405.74  10.0  40.57
J. FVI1IE
Acaic I C__uei                   14.12     3.15                      -       -         -            -              -  17.97   5.0   0.s
bardieg                          12.40        -        -             -       -         -            -              -  12.40   5.0   0.43
-Tot    IE                          26.72    3J.5                      -        -         -            -              -  30.53   5.0   1.53
C. EUJWIrAiEIL                      32.74     5.09    10.60         4.76    1.20       I.U             -           2.10  38.13    5.0   2.n9
3. TEIauIM. ASSIITM
b:dali,te                           -         -     5.51             -    2.64         -            -          23.20  31.39   0.0   0.00
F.liousl,s                           -        -     4.79           .      1.44         -            -              -  11.01   0.0   0.6
*-T.W  lEt        ASIrITE              -        -    10.30          4.79    4.0           -            -          2A.24    .0    0.0   0.00
E. IRTR CUTSI
E*actlon hmtuma                     -         -        -          0.      0.33                      -              -  61.71   0.0   0.00
pN.bt Ilniitih                      -         -        -                     -         -            -          12.04  12.04   0.0   0.00
ir-T  te   MT       CT                 -        -        -         40.90    0.33          -            -          12.04  73.27   0.0   0.o0
F. PWE L  I       mU I                 -        -        -             -        -         -        N.*4               -  33.f9   5.0   1.92
6. DI-CIwurAMN                         -        -      1.04                     -      0.12                   -       -   1.5   0.0   0.00
TOW DIESUIM   COST                   433.52    40.6     21.93         70.5    5.69        1.73        38.49          37.37 M9.81   7.2  46.94
Tote _DIF  SITS                       433.52    40.63    21.3          70.45    5.69       1.73       3.41           37.37 6.81   7.2  46.94
Phicau  coftiagmclos                40.31      3.42     0.53         0.24    0.06       O."          1.92           0.10  46.94   0.0  0o.e
Plce     l C.tIubIins              143.92    13.33      3.09        13.57    1.44       0.20         9.69           P.4  200.2'   7.0  14.04
ToW  MUE CIIS                         617.31    57.63    25.55         39.26    7.19       2.01       50.10          4?.42  M9.9    6.8  40-93
T_r                                 37.77     7.90      1.52         0.50    0.0        0.15           -            2.3  100.31   8.4   3.44
Fmei* ExIAUW                       212.98    22.10    1943          48.44    4.74       1.74        21.4           20.96  '52.01   5.3  20.44
c      21r tZIP   15:11



KENYA
PROPOSED SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IMPLEMENTATION
YEARS 1/                               I               I                III              IV                 V                VI
CALENDAR YEARS                       1986             1987             1988             1989              1990             1991    1992
QUARTERS                   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Primary Teacher
Training Colleges
a. Bondo                         XXX 000 000 TTT TTT CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC 110 m09
b. Hurang'a                  XXX 000 000 TTT TTT CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC HH0 1H1
c. Tambach                           XXX 000 000 TTT TTm  cCc cCc cc CC CCc ccc cCc ccc CCC CCC  cCC CCc m1m m
d. GariLsa                                             XXX %JOO 000 Tm! mT  cCc cCc ccC CCC CCC CCC cCc cCC CCC cCc cCc mm NW
e. Narok                                          XXX 000 000 Trr mT! cCc cCc ccC CCC ccc cCc ccc CCC CCc cCc cCc 1   100H 
I. Voi                                                 XXX 000 OO mTr mTT  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC cC MM MM
S. Baringo                                         XXX 000 000 mT! mT! ccc cCc cCC CCC CCC CCC cCc cc  CCc ccC CCC ccc m  
2. Arid Zone
Primary Schools
a. Barialol                                       XXX XXX 000 T TT m  cCc cCc cCc cCc cCc cCc ccC CCC CCC CCC 10H  M1
b. Kanyao               XXX XXX 000 TTT mTT  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC MHH 110
c. okowe                             xxx XXXOOOOOOTTT TX CCCCCC CCCCCC cccCCC ccc cccCCC CCC MH04IUH
B. FURNITURE                                         000 000 000 mT! Tm1       DDD DDD ODD DD0 ODD DD D DDD DDD DDD DDD D      DD t0 MMtl
C. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES    000 000 000 TTT TTT             DDD DDD DDD DDD DOD ODD DOD ODD ODD DODDODD ODD ODD DOD ODD DDD K00 1M0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SPECIALISTS & FELLOWSHIPSF   AA AAA AM AM AM AA MA MA MAAM AM MA AAA AM M A AM A   MAA AAA AAA AMA AAA AAA AM AM
E. OPERATIONAL COSTS           A"A AAA MA AAA MA AMAM AM  AMA         AAA A A   AM  AM                       AI AM AM MA AM MA     AM M A MA AMA  AM MA
F. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES       AM  AAM   A M A   AAAM  AM AM AAA AM AM MA  MMA A   AMAA AAA MA AM AM MAA MA MA MA  M AM  AM
G. IN-COUNTRY TRAINING         AAA AM  AM AM  AM AAA MA MA  AAA AMA A   MA MA MA AAAMAAA A   AAA AM M A M               A MAAMA AMA AAA4
Legend: X - Survey of Site.
0 - Design and Preparation of Tender Documentation
T - Tendering and Contract Awarding
C - Construction and/or Hanufacturing Period
D - Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles Delivery
A - General Activity
H - Defect and Liability Period. Maintenance
1/ From date of Credit effectiveness



-49-                                              ANNEX II
KENfYA                                               Table 5
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
Totals Including Contindencies               Totals Including Cmtinmivs
(SH 11lll1nn'                                MUSg million)
BUB7 87/88  88/89 8990   /91 91/92  Total  86'97 87/J 89/89 89/90 90/91 ?1/92 Total
1. INUESTMENT COBTS
A. CIVIL VMEKS
Site Vorks                        8.17  17.62  10.96  20.41  21.8l  11.54  98.52   0.51  1.10  1.1?  1.2R  1.36  0.72  6.1'
Academic I Communal              15.43  33.26  35.N0 38.53  41.18  21.78 I85.99   0.96  2.08 2.24  2,41  2.57  1.36 11.62
Dormitories                      11.59  24.Y9  26.90  28.95  30.94  16.37 139.7h   0.72  1.56  1.68  1.81  1.93  i.02  8.73
Housins                          13.16  29.37  30.53  32.86  35.12  18.5r 158.6'  0.97  1.71  1.91  2.CS  2.20  1.16  ' 91
Sub-Total CIVIL 1R8KS               4'.35 104.24 117.11 120.7) 279.0   68.77 582.87   3.02  6.52  7.01  7.55 8.07  4.27 36.43
D. ElJRITURE
Academic I Commurual              2.03   4.37   4.70   5.06   5.41   2.86  74.44  0.13  0.27 0.29  0.32  0.44  0.1P 1853
'Bordirs                           1.43   3.07   3.30   3.55   3.79   2,01  17.14   0.09  0.1?  0.21  0.Z2  0.24  0.13  1.07
Sub-Total FURNITURE                  3.46   7.44  P.00   .61   9.20   4.87 41.58   0.27 0.46  0.50  0.54  0.59  0.30  2.60
C. *EOUIPIJIT/VEHIICLES             11.77  17.17  14.66  17.83  12.68   7,05  76.16  0.74  1.07  0.92  0.80  0.79  0.44  4.7b
3. TECHNtCAL ASSISTANCE
swcielists                        7.98  8.60   7.87   A.Q9   4.12   3.55  39.10   0.50 0.54  0.49  0.44 0.26  0.72 2.44
Ful!ouships                       3.39   3.63   2. 2   1.65  1.0?   0.77  13.19   0.21  0.23  0.17  0.10  0.07 0.04  0.82
Su-Total TEIHNICAL ASSISTNC         11.3,  12.23  10.59  8.64   5.20   4.77 52.29   0.71  0.76  046  0.54  0.33 0.27  3.27
E. OflRATIONAL COSTS
Educatiji Operatius              13.213  14.25  15.33  16.50   P-16  9p.28  77.45   0.83 0.89  0.96  1.03  0.55  0.58  4.84
Project loplewentation            2.60   2.90   3.01   3.24   1.73  1?.3  15.23  0.13  0.18  0.19  0.70  0.11  0.11  0.95
Sub-Total OPERATIONAL COSTS         15.83  17.05  18.34  19.74  10.60  11.2  92.68   o.9  1.07  1.15  1-3:  C."  0.69 5.79
F. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES            13.11   Y.42  10.13   5.45   5.83   6.16  50.10   0.87 0.5Y  0.63  0.34  0.3A  0.39  3.13
6. IN-COUNTRY TRAINING               0.73   0.5,      -      -      -      -   1.2V   0.05t 0.03    -     -              0 08
Total INVESTIUT COSTS                 104.62 168.09 173.90 176.04 172.58.101.73 R96.96  6.54 10.51 10.87 11.00 10.79  6-36 56.06
Total PROJECT COSTS                    Ir4.62 168.09 17.90 176.04 172.58 10. 731 06..96   6.54 10.51 10.87 11.00 10.79  6.36 56/p
Decembur 23, 1995  15:10



KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMIENTATION
Component                         Objective                                Targets                                 Indicators
Primary Teacher               To improve the quality of             Build, furniLh and equip seven           Number of colleges built.
Training Colleges             human inputs to education             new primary teacher training             furniahed, equipped and In ue.
by providing additional               colleges with a total capacity
teacher training facilities,          of 4,060 trainees.                      Number of additional trainees
enrolled In primary teacher
training colleges nationally.
Arid Zone Priuary             To improve the quality and            Build, furnish and equip about           Number of achools built,
Schools                       equity *f the physical inputs         three new boarding primary               furnished, equipped and In use.
to primary education.                 schools In deprived areas where
alternative mans of pupil boarding   Number of pupils enrolled La
are not available,                      the new schools.
Curriculum                    To raise the level of                 Assistance to the preparation and        Number of courses for obich ne
Development                   educational quality through           pilot teating of curriculum              materials are prepared, produced,
curriculum development for            materials, and to the preparation        distributed and In use.
secondary and technical               of instructional materials for
schools,                              publication.                             Number of students using the new
materials.
Educational Media             To raise the level of                 Provision of techolcal equipment         Equipmet delivered, IAtalled
Equipment                     educational quality through           for the preparation and recordin&        and in use.
increased capacity to deliver         of educational msterials using
educational _edia.                    audio and visual mdia.
Education Planning            To strengthen the capability          Assistance to the Planning Unit of    Planning Unit functionIng a  an
and Statistics                of the Government to plan             the Miniatry of Education, Science    effective contributor to
effectively for the education         and Technology, to help improve its   Ministry Operations.
sector and to mnage its               mnagoent capabilities.
expansion at all levels.
Provision of computer and microfilm   Equipmet delivered, Installed
equipmnt to the Teachers Service        end in use.
Comislion, to help Increase its
efficiency in the use of
financlal and humn resources.
Project                       To enhance the ability of the         Hire contract mployeas and               Personnel on post and performLog
Administration                Project Ieplewntation Unit            consultants,                             effectively.
to carry out effective
execution of Project activities.    Revise the organizational                 New orgauniattonl structure in
structure of the PIU to  ake            place and functioning
it more responsive to the               effectively.
technical and administrative
requiremets placed on it.



ANNEX II
51 -                         ~~~~~~~Table 7
- 51 -
KENYA
PROPOSED SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ 000's)
Cumulative       Undisbursed
CY      FY l/     Quarters 2/      Disbursements      Disbursements        Balance
37,500
1987         1                   400                 400          37,100
2                  900               1,300           36,200
1987                 3                 1,300               2,600           34,900
4                1,500               4,100           33,400
1988         1                 1,800               5,900          31,600
2                2,000               7,900           29,600
1988                 3                 2,000               9,900           27,600
4                2,220              12,100           25,400
1989         1                 2,220              14.300          23,200
2                2,220              16,500           21,000
1989                 3                 2,000              18,500           19,000
4                2,000              20,500           17,000
1990         1                 2,000             22,500           15,000
2                1,800              24,300           13,200
1990                 3                 1,800              26,100           11,400
4                1,800              27,900            9,600
1991         1                 1,800             29,700            7,800
2                1,600              31,300            6,200
1991                 3                 1,600              32,900            4,600
4                1,300              34,200            3,300
1992         1                 1,300             35,500            2,000
2                1,000              36,500            1,000
3                  700              37,200              300
4                  300              37,500                0
1/  Bank Group and Borrower FY   July 01 - June 30
2/ From date of Credit effectiveness



-52 -                                   ANNEX II
Table 8
KENYA
PROPOSED SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(in SDR 000's)
Cumulative       Undisbursed
CY      FY 1|      Quarters 2/      Disbursements      Disbursements        Balance
35,000
1987         1                    370                 370           34,630
2                   840               1,210           33,790
1987                  3                 1,200               2,410           32,590
4                 1,400               3,810           31,190
1988         1                  1,680               5,490           29,510
2                 1,870               7,360           27,640
1988                  3                 1,870               9,230           25,770
4                 2,050              11,280           23,720
1989         1                 2,050               13,330           21,670
2                 2,050              15,380           19,620
1989                  3                 1,870              17,250           17,750
4                 1,870              19,120           15,880
1990         1                 1,870               20,990           14,010
2                 1,680              22,670           12,330
1990                  3                 1,680              24,350           10,650
4                 1,680              26,030            8,970
1991         1                  1,680              27,710           7,290
2                 1,500              29,210            5,790
1991                  3                 1,500              30,710            4,290
4                 1,200              31,910            3,090
1992         1                  !.,200             33,110            1,890
2                   900              34,010              990
3                   650              34,660              340
4                   340              35,000                0
1/  Bank Group and Borrower FY   July 01 - June 30
2/ From date of Credit effectiveness



53-                           Annex III
KENYA
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Documents Related to the Education Sector
1. Population Projecrions for Kenya 1980-2000, Central Bureau
Statistics, March 1982.
2. 8-4-4 Sypiem of Education, MEST, December 1984.
3. Second University in Kenya: Report of the Presidencial Working
Party, Republic of Kenya, September 1981.
4. Stacistics on Primary Schools, MEST, 1983.
5. New Salaries and Salary Schedules for the Kenya Civil Service,
Office of the President, November 1980.
6.  Syllabuses for Kenya Primary Schools:  Standards V1I and VIII, Jomo
Kenyacta Foundation, 1984.
B. Documents Related to the Project
1. Sixth World Bank Education Projecr Proposals, Republic of Kenya,
March 14, 1985.
2. Secondary Education Project: Guidelines on the Development: of the
Secondary Educarion Curriculum, KIE, April 1984.
3. The State of Family Life Education in Kenya's Schools and CoG1eges,
KIE, October 1984.
4. Technical Education Project (Fourch Draft), MEST and KIE, January
1985.
5. Strengthening the Planning Capacity of Education: A Project-
Proposal for Funding by the World Bank, MEST, August 3, 1984.
6. Kenya Institute of Education Handbook: Silver Jubilee Edition
(1957 - 1983), KIE, November 1982.
C. Working Papers
1. Architectural Working Papers.



it-~~~~~~~~~~~~:
c)                          t  -  i~    ~    ~~~~~~~~\ c:
%---    >                C's 
,~~~~~~~~~~   p3
g~~~~~
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I !
//  ,                                  \XA                                                                     :-:n~/ 
w             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ./



4eoraoiai          .   'I
.:  [' ' i  sH9t,''-  /               *           4Nt-              *--)   '                                                /~~~Mer0  ~  QSwWi 
arnhKampQ   *¢achRISSA
KISU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N                                                                                                                           -< KAM5jA \-\ ,  *-, NY R
ncho                Ndmbci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~areo                                                   ,OW5P
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IA                                                                        k1u )tb alng -  
TA N Z A N       I A                                                                    har Shs  0   Cities and lawns
-.--olos                                        'N                                                                          - ._
>,s, q °, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Makowe^;
Rivers                  .           Riwe
K E NYA                                 tArwiear                                                                                           I NO .MNXt    OCEAN
SIXTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                              o.s\ 
*Training Colleges                   (      ooo  oio                                                                                               ,
Province boundritl                                                                                                     t
A4'                                         Dis&ricl boundories              rGf rer,_w_cedrDit rictboundariesA  F R r                                                              C  A l
0                                              *--lnterriational boundaries                                                                                                                cENY f   *\  . .-.codtr rAo d
W                   ~~                                                            ,.,.~~~. C--Rilway
Ni~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rvnebnoi                                                bVn55rM5
-4-                                                  DistrictAS  bounarie             .@    ( .:ll                                                                                A  F ''  I C  A
Dh                  0     20     40    eo    tt0O   ICo                                 ,,,,                                                                                                       (I', Id  .  "   '
8                        ~~~~~ ~~~MILES        'i'bws!*                                                                                                   
rnd   eof0 VW "                                                                                                  *.






