CREDIT NUMBER 1673 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           /   , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1673 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             //, 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower)and ITERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the Eollowing meanings:
(a) "MEST" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education,
Science and Technology;
(b) "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
(c) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
within MEST under Development Credit Agreement (Second Education
Project) No. 185-KE, dated May 20, 1970, between the Borrower and
the Association; and
(d) "Ksh" means Kenya shillings, the Borrower's currency.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent  to   thirty-five  million   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 1996 and ending
February 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Education, Science and Technology with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, educational and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as -such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Asgociation shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall develop its curricula for
technical education under Part B of the Project, taking into


﻿-4-
account the results of its manpower and training requirements
study.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1987, furnish to the Association for its review and
comment: (a) a detailed plan of action to increase the cost-
effectiveness of education, including, inter alia, cost recovery
measures; and (b) concrete and monitorable measures to be taken
in the implementation of the said plan of action.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all measures required to ensure adequate operation, maintenance,
repair and renewal of facilities and equipment provided under the
Project, in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial
and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PID to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning  the   said  accounts   and  the  audit
thereof, and said records, as the Association
shall, from time to time, reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause PIU to:
(i) maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the    pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have taken all neces-
sary measures to reorganize and strengthen the PIU in accordance
with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for the time being responsible
for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                            96322003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By69
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be tinanced in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works            15,380,000          65%
(2) Furniture and            4,010,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures and
80% of local.
expenditures
(3) Vehicles                   480,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Technical                1,530,000          100% of foreign
assistance,                                expenditures and
fellow-                                    60% of local
ships and                                  expenditures
training
(5) Professional             1,690,000          60% of local
services                                   expenditures
(6) Operating                1,970,000          60% of local
costs for                                  expenditures
Parts B and
C (1) of the
Project


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Operating costs            420,000          60% of local
for Project                                expenditures
Administration
(excluding
salaries)
(8) Unallocated              9,520,000
TOTAL             35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the equity
and quality of the Borrower's educational system; and (b) provide
for institutional development, through strengthening the capa-
bility of the Borrower to plan effectively for the education
sector and to manage its expansion at all levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
moditications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Primary Education
(1) Construction and equipping of seven new primary teacher
training colleges, with a total capacity of 4,080
trainees.
(2) Construction and equipping of about three new primary
schools in remote arid locations, each with a total
capacity of 360 pupils.
(3)  Support for the development of educational materials
for delivery by mass media, for use in schools and in
teacher training, through the provision of equipment,
specialist services and training.
Part B:   Secondary and Technical Education
Assistance for the preparation and testing of new
curricula materials for secondary and technical education,
through the provision of equipment, operational expenses and
fellowships.
Part C:   Institutional Development
(1) Strengthening of the Planning Unit of MEST to improve
it's management capabilities and increase efficiency in
the use of existing resources, through the provision of
technical assistance, operational expenses, short-term
training and equipment.


﻿- 11 -
(2) Enhancement of the Teacher Service Commission's capa-
city to manage teacher resources effectively, through
the provision of computer and microfilm equipment and
training related to their use.
(3) Strengtnening   of  PIU's   implementation  capabilities
through the provision of technical assistance equip-
ment, vehicles and operational expenses.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods included in Categories
(2) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $500,000 each, and for furniture, and equipment
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 each, may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association,
provided, however, that the aggregate costs of the works and
goods so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.


﻿- 13 -
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, or for goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and specialists whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿1; -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   Execution of the Project shall be the responsibility of the
PIU. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, main-
tain the PIU within MEST and continue to ensure that it is
adequately staffed.
2.   To ensure that PIU is more responsive to the technical and
administrative duties placed upon it, the Borrower shall reor-
ganize PIU, taking, inter alia, the following measures:
(a) the PIU shall be headed by a Director, whose position
shall not be less than an Under-Secretary, and who shall report
directly to the Deputy Secretary for Planning and Development of
MEST;
(b) establish within PIU, a technical section, composed of
two architects and a civil engineer. The section shall be headed
by a Deputy Director who shall be a qualified architect or civil
engineer;
(c) the terms of reference and experience of the Director
and Deputy Director referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above,
shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(d) strengthen the accounting and procurement sections
within PIU, by the employment of additional staff.
3.   The PIU shall, in consultation with relevant ministries
including MOW, select and nominate all required consulting firms,
draft their terms of reference and contracts, monitor and approve
their work, assist in the preparation of all tender documenta-
tion, in the opening of tenders, in tender analysis, in contract
awards, in supervision during construction and in approving
certificates for payment.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


