Document of
The World Bank                                     [
Fi LE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3584-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.6 MILLION
TO THE PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (PEA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
PROVINCIAL POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PR104270/J112431/D1529/21
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00  =  B 23.0
B 1.00   =  US$0.0435
(as of April 1983)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km      =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
sq km   =  square kilometer (0.386 square mile)
m ton   =  metric ton (2,204.6 pounds)
-kV      =  kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA     =  kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA     =  megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW      =  kilowatt (1,000 watts)
mW      =  megawatt (1,000 kilowatt)
kWh     =  kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh     =  gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
tcf     =  one trillion cubic feet
MMSCFD  -  one million standard cubic feet per day
MMBTU   =  one million British thermal units
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB    =  Asian Development Bank
ADAB   =  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
CIDA   =  Canadian International Development Agency
CPPD   =  Committee for Power Policy and Development
EDL    =  Electricite'du Laos
EGAT   =  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
KFAED  =  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KFW    =  Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MEA    = Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
NREP   -  Normal Rural Electrification Program
NEA    =  National Energy Administration
NESDB  =  National Economic and Social Development Board
NEB    =  National Electricity Board of Malaysia
OECF   =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC   =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PEA    =  Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT    =  Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG    =  Royal Thai Government
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
PROVINCIAL POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
Guarantor:         Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:        $30.6 million equivalent, including $0.1 million
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:              20 years, including 6 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The objectives of the proposed project are to complement
PEA's ongoing rural electrification projects for
providing electricity service to rural consumers and to
strengthen PEA's operations. The project consists of
providing electric service to about 1,500 unelectrified
villages and extending electric service to households in
another 1,500 partially electrified villages. A total of
about 130,000 rural customers will benefit from the
project. There are no unusual risks associated with the
project.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Local Foreign Total
Estimated Cost:                                          ---- ($ million) 
Part A:  Village electrification    15.7    23.5    39.2
Part B:  Institutional development              1.0     1.0
Base Cost                        15.7    24.5    40.2
Physical contingencies                 1.1      1.9     3.0
Price contingencies                    3.2      5.1     8.3
Total Project Cost 11            20.0    31.5    51.5
Front-end fee on Bank loan              -       0.1     0.1
Total Financing Required         20.0    31.6    51.6
Local Foreign Total
Financing Plan:                                           ---- ($ million) ---
IBRD                                   -      30.6    30.6
Australian Development
Assistance Bureau                    -        1.0     1.0
Consumers' contributions              12.6      -      12.6
PEA                                    7.4      -       7.4
Total               Total                          20.0    31.6    51.6
Estimated
Disbursement                 Bank FY      1984       1985       1986      1987
from Bank Loan:
Annual                   0.2        5.6       16.7       8.1
Cumulative               0.2        5.8      22.5       30.6
Rate of Return:    14%
Appraisal Report:  No. 4201-TH, dated May 17, 1983.
IBRD Map: No. 16683
/1 Includes taxes and duties estimated at $3.3 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY FOR A PROVINCIAL
POIER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
w   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Provincial Electricity Authority, with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $30.6 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Provincial Power Distribution
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 6 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on
September 18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated,
and an economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic
Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH), which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal
with the problems, was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September
1980 and issued on January 8, 1981. At present, a further economic report
is in draft and will be discussed with the Government in May and issued in
July 1983. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has
broadened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by
frequent and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the
1977 general elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater
political stability and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have con-
tinued to take place, reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of
political parties, military and business leaders, and technocrats, which
have governed the country for the past five years. However, only one change
in Prime Minister has occurred during this period. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime Minister in March 1980 and has been
successful in mobilizing support for a major program of economic structural
adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1981-86. Senior civil
servants supporting this program were given key positions in the public
sector. A broad public consensus on national policy priorities has been
maintained.



- 2 -
4.        National elections were again held on April 18, 1983, following
the dissolution of Parliament by royal decree at the request of the Prime
Minister. The elections were conducted three days before the automatic
lapsing of certain transitional provisions attached to the 1978
Constitution. These provisions had been designed to ensure that, during a
transitional five-year period, serving military, civilian and other non-
elected officials could continue to play a major stabilizing role in both
the legislative and executive branches of government through their appoint-
ment to the powerful 225 Seat Senate or to Cabinet posts. The Constitution
envisaged that elections conducted after April 21, 1983, when these provi-
sions expired, would be based on provincial winner-take-all system, likely
to consolidate the position of the larger, better organized political
parties in the 324 Seat House of Representatives, and to introduce greater
political discipline. The April 18 elections were accordingly conducted
under the existing unitary constituency rules. Candidates from 10 parties
were elected to Parliament. No party secured an outright majority but the
three leading parties won 221 seats, and subsequently strengthened their
position through the absorption of smaller parties or the affiliation of
independent representatives. Genereal Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition government which includes two of the three leading parties
and has the backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected represen-
tatives. The new Cabinet was announced on May 8. Prospects for the
continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms are thus good.
Past Economic Trends
5.        A number of positive features have contributed to Thailand's rapid
socio-economic development over the past two decades. These include the
continued availability of reasonably fertile land and the relatively equit-
able distribution of such land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to economic
incentives, provision of infrastructure by the Government, the openness of
the economy which improved the competitiveness of Thai products, and the
dynamism of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Thus, the
1960s and most of the 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic develop-
ment in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4-5% per
capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely on
an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response to
export opportunities was a major factor contributing to these developments
as well as to a sustained growth of exports.  An increase in the investment
level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid industrial growth.
Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keeping the debt
service ratio quite low.  Exports grew at a consistently high rate.  The
incidence of poverty was reduced substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to
about 31% by 1975/76, although significant regional disparities continue to
exist, with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the high-
est per capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecom-
munications, schools, public health and other services than the other three
regions. Still, substantial overall progress was made in meeting the basic
needs of the Thai people. Major gains were made in recent years in reducing



- 3 -
the annual population growth rate from 3% during the 1960s to an estimated
2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth two decades later).
Natural gas was discovered offshore and has started to come on stream.
Recently, oil and gas have also been discovered onshore, and hopes are high
that these finds will turn out to be substantial.
6.         Since the mid-1970s Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A rela-
tively high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.6% per annum between
1975 and 1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 5.8% in 1980) but this was accompanied by
accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing
dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977
and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government
deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export
growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and
1978, but it amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979 and 6.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low
external debt.
7.         Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979,
policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They
included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electri-
city; measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury
laws, which permitted an increase in interest rates; and the introduction of
regulations to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary
restraint. In the second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious
attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy,
and continued to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic
decisions. In October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods.
In the same month the Government started on a reform of the tariff struc-
ture, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between
10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of
line with international prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased
by 60%. In a number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices
were increased further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half
times as high as at the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981,
charges for other public services (water, transport, communications) were
increased substantially (most by at least 50%). During this period, the
Government also introduced various fiscal measures designed to contain the
central government deficit.
8.         Once the Government had decided to implement a broad structural
adjustment program, the state of the Thai economy has been changing quickly,
in response to the rapid deterioration in the external economic environment
and to the changes in domestic policies. After the earlier overheating was



-4-
overcome in 1981, the economy weakened significantly in 1982. Inflation was
greatly reduced, with consumers- prices increasing by only about 5% in 1982.
Export prices declined, and the decrease in inflationary expectations led to
an inventory adjustment. Private fixed investments, which had already been
stagnating for several years, are estimated to have dropped by 14% in 1982,
which brought them, in real terms, below the 1977 level (17.8% of 1977 GDP,
but only 12.7% of 1982 GDP). The latest 1982 estimates for growth in pro-
duction and real income are about 4% for industry, 0.5% for agriculture
(because of unfavorable weather), 4.5% for GDP and only about 1% in real
national income. Associated with the slowing of international price level
increases and slower domestic economic growth was a reduced rate of
inflation (13% in 1981 and 5% in 1982). The balance of payments current
account deficit was also considerably smaller in 1982 than in recent years.
Partly because of a high carry-over level of agricultural exportables into
the year, export volume continued to grow at a very rapid rate (17%).
Because of a large fall in export prices, export values, however, increased
by only 7%. At the same time, given the squeeze on inventories and private
fixed investments, imports declined by 14% in volume and 7% in value.
Consequently, the current account deficit was reduced from about $2.3 bil-
lion (7.1% of GDP) in 1981 to $1.2 billion (3.2% of GDP) in 1982. This is
well below the trend assumed for the Fifth Five Year Plan and the structural
adjustment program. However, this deviation from the trend is clearly
related to the present recessionary tendencies in the economy, and as the
economy revives (even if this goes together with some recovery in the terms
of trade) pressures on the balance of payments would tend to recur. As in
other countries, the fiscal deficit has widened considerably in FY82.
Compared to actual FY81 and budgeted FY82 deficits of 2.5-3% of GDP, the
actual FY82 deficit is estimated at over 5% of GDP. The increase can be
fully attributed to shortfalls on the revenue side, which in turn can at
least partly be related to lower inflation, lower domestic activity and
especially lower imports.
Development Prospects and Constraints
9.        For the remainder of the decade, many of the positive features
which contributed to Thailand-s rapid socio-economic development over the
past two decades will continue to do so. The recent developments have,
however, demonstrated that the Thai economy is not immune from adverse
international developments, such as low international economic growth, high
interest rates, and declining terms of trade, resulting in lower domestic
growth and a poor investment climate. What is more, fiscal measures have as
yet fallen short of reestablishing balance in the Government's accounts. In
response to these challenges, the Government has searched intensively for
policy alternatives which will correct the fiscal and external imbalances
without undue consequences for the growth of income and employment,
especially for the poor. Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year
Plan, which covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major
(and interrelated) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national



security; growth is seen as a derived rather than a primary objective. The
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, but
mainly through medium-term structural adjustments which improve production
incentives and increase the efficiency of the economy, and improve its
competitiveness, both in the external and domestic markets.
10.       The implications of the recent slowdown for longer term growth and
for the achievement of the Fifth Plan targets will be assessed in the forth-
coming economic report.  The economic developments of the last 15-18 months
make earlier projections for Thailand look overly optimistic, in the light
of a revised outlook for world economy, for world trade and for commodity
prices. This affects the outlook for Thai exports, in terms of volume as
well as prices, and thereby also the country's debt servicing capacity. A
critical evaluation of these and related factors requires a reduction in the
target rates for GDP growth, investment and government revenue mobilization,
with GDP growth for the Plan period as a whole now projected at about 5.5%
p.a. While this is lower than past average economic growth rates, Thailand
would continue to outperform most other developing countries in the
difficult 1980s.
11.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. An IMF two-
year standby program started in June 1981. However, in FY82 an increased
budgetary deficit in the wake of revenue shortfalls caused a nonobservance
of the subceiling on net credit to the Government. Under the circumstances,
it was decided not to continue this arrangement and a new 14-month standby
in the amount of SDR 272 million was approved by the Fund in November 1982.
With regard to the Bank, the Government has sought assistance in further
developing and implementing the structural adjustment loans. The first such
loan was approved by the Executive Directors on March 2, 1982; the second
loan was approved on March 1, 1983.
Financing Requirements
12.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
*       needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14%
for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries at similar
levels of development. Recently the Government has taken steps to revise
the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax measures are
planned, particularly in the area of improved tax administration and struc-
ture. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has



- 6 -
already improved in the wake of tariff increases since 1980, is expected to
continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
13.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and
energy sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macro-
economic projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain
at levels about $1.5 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP
to about 2% by 1990. Even the realization of this target will require large
amounts of external borrowing, totalling about $30 billion over the period
1983-90, of which about two thirds is expected to be in the form of public
and publicly guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, total debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods
and nonfactor services will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.9% in 1986. Given
the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of
agricultural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
14.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs
to meet a larger part of Thailand's growing resource requirements. The rest
has been financed through syndicated loans and bond issues. The Government
has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and approve
all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is improv-
ing its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep
track of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group,
have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits, but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
15.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1983, had received 73 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$2,878.3 million in loans and $124.8 million in credits.  As of that date,
$1,270.9 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No
IDA credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.



16.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 15% for transportation; 10% for telecommunications; 5% for
urban development; 6% for education; 3% for industry; 1% for population/
health/nutrition; and 5% for structural adjustment lending. Overall imple-
mentation of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past
five years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to
24.9% in 1981. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1981, for
example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and
Morocco, were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
17.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infra-
structure projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to
a program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 63% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers
outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural
extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In
recent years education, population and low-income housing projects have
accounted for about 12% of the program.
18.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support
the Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year
Plan for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of
poverty alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income dis-
parities; and (b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy
through the intensification of agriculture, efficient development of the
industrial sector, promotion of domestic energy conservation and development,
increased public resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity
in the public sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank
assistance in Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral
lending, especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at
strengthening the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
19.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agricul-
ture and rural development will seek to generate employment and income
growth particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas



- 8 -
of the country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming
at continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sector will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
20.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,411.9 million as of March 31, 1983. As of December 31,
1981, Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 12.9% of
total debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of
total debt service payments amounted to 6.8% in 1981. This is not excessive
in view of Thailand's modest overall external debt (19.7% of GDP in 1981)
and the declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt
service in total debt service.
21.       As of MIarch 31, 1983, IFC had made fifteen commitments totalling
$110.9 million in ten projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as the
olefins complex and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the
agricultural sector. A tantalum processing project, a palm oil project and
a project to expand a glass manufacturing plant are being considered by IFC
management.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
22.       Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 5.9 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to over 16.2 million tons of oil equiva-
lent in 1981, an average annual growth rate of 8.8%.  In 1981, petroleum



-9-
products accounted for 71% of total energy. Indigenous resources have
accounted for the rest of total energy consumption, with fuelwood/charcoal,
bagasse, hydro, and lignite forming 13%, 7%, 5% and 4% shares, respectively.
The price of crude oil has increased almost twelvefold since 1972 and has
become a heavy burden on the Thai economy. After the second oil shock, the
share of Thailand's energy imports in total imports increased to 31%, and
45% of the economy s export earnings were required to finance energy imports
alone in 1980.
Energy Resources
23.       Natural Gas.  Natural gas reserves in the Gulf of Thailand are
currently estimated to amount to about 20 trillion cu ft (tcf) of which
about 4 tcf are proven. Gas production began in September 1981 in the
Erawan field at a rate of 70-80 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD).
During 1982 production gradually increased to about 130 MMSCFD, but remained
short of the 200 MMSCFD which had originally been expected. The shortfall is
attributable to technical difficulties and to the fact that the gas reserves
are distributed over smaller than expected reservoirs. Proven reserves are
being reassessed. With the addition of further production capacity in other
fields, production would increase to 600 MMSCFD by 1987. The Bank made a
loan of $107 million (Loan 1773-TH) in FY80 for the development of the first
phase of the natural gas pipeline, and a Bank loan of $90 million (Loan
2184-TH) to help finance a gas separation plant and marketing facilities was
signed on August 17, 1982. It is expected that by 1990, about 40% of EGAT's
projected total generation of 32,950 GWh would be from thermal stations
using natural gas, thereby reducing substantially the demand for fuel oil.
24.       Oil.  The exploration for oil in Thailand has recently led to
improved expectations of domestic oil production beyond what was thought
possible during the preparation of the Fifth Plan. Current finds are all in
Northern Thailand. Three small oil fields in the Fang area currently yield
about 400 bpd, while production at Sirikit is expected to begin in 1983 at
the rate of 5,000 bpd, increasing to 8,000 bpd by the end of 1983, and to
17,000 bpd by 1986. Subject to positive results elsewhere in the
concession, production may reach 50,000 bpd by the late 1990s. Finally, oil
shale deposits have been found in Tak province near the Burmese border, which
could yield an estimated 10 million tons of oil.  The Department of Mineral
Resources, with the assistance of the German Government, has initiated studies
to determine the technical feasibility and economic viability of developing
these oil shale resources. At present prices, however, oil shale develop-
ment is unlikely to be economically viable.
25.       Lignite Reserves.  Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite
deposits have been indicated by recent drillings. Lignite is relatively
uneconomical to transport because of its high moisture and ash content,



- 10 -
while its tendency to decompose and self-ignite in open air makes it unsafe
to store. Hence, in Thailand as elsewhere, lignite is used almost
exclusively for large-scale power generation at the mine site. The present
lignite reserves totalling 770 million metric tons (mt) are located at Mae
Moh (650 million mt), Krabi (100 million mt), and Li (20 million mt). Of
the reserves at Mae Moh, 350 million mt are proven reserves, sufficient to
sustain a total generating capacity of about 1,725 MWJ for about 25 years.
It is estimated that by 1990, about 25% of EGAT-s total generation would be
from lignite fired thermal stations.
26.       Hydro Potential.  The total hydropotential of Thailand's rivers is
estimated at about 9,300 MW, not including the international rivers (Mekong
and Salween), whose development of 25,000 MW is currently beyond reach due
to major political and social obstacles. About 1,380 MW of hydropower are
now in operation, 2,100 MW are under construction, and about 2,500 NW in 25
projects are at a stage of identification or feasibility study. Mini-hydro
potential is estimated at about 3,290 MW at over 100 sites. According to
current plans, hydropower production will increase at an average annual rate
of about 13% between 1981 and 1995.
27.       Other Energy Resources.  Thailand's other energy resources include
oil shale, fuelwood and possibly geothermal energy. Fuelwood resources,
once plentiful, are rapidly depleting and deforestation is becoming a
serious problem. Geothermal exploration is being carried out by EGAT in the
northern part of Thailand near Chiangmai.
28.       Energy Supply Alternatives.  Prospects for reducing Thailand's
dependence on imported energy in the 1980s are good, at least for its elec-
tricity sector. The Government's policy is to reduce Thailand's dependence
on imported energy by (i) developing indigenous energy resources such as
natural gas, lignite and hydro potential, (ii) pursuing a rational pricing
policy and (iii) undertaking conservation programs. Based on the
development of natural gas and lignite resources proven to date and on the
continued expansion of its hydro potential, Thailand should be able to
reduce its share of imported energy for the electricity sector from about
71% in FY81 to less than 20% in FY90. However, without a substantial
increase in the natural gas and lignite reserves or the development of
international hydro potential, Thailand will re-emerge in the 1990s as a
major importer of energy for its power sector. In the other large energy
consuming sectors, i.e., transportation and industry, the prospects for
converting to other forms of energy are rather limited in the near term.
Thus, there is a need to focus on curtailing energy demands and encouraging
greater energy conservation.



- 11 -
29.        Energy Investment Program.  The Thai Government reacted in recent
years to the growing energy demands of the Thai economy, the increased cost
of foreign supplies, and the discovery of domestic energy resources by
rapidly expanding its expenditure, especially capital spending, in the
energy sector. This expansion has been particularly rapid since 1980, with
the result that energy is now the single most important sector for public
spending, having increased its share of total public expenditure from 12.5%
in 1977 to 22.1% in 1981. For the Fifth Plan period, NESDB projects that
the energy sector will contribute about 26% to total governmental spending,
up from the average of 18% during the Fourth Plan period.  Energy sector
spending weighs even more heavily in total public investment, reaching a
share of 31.9% in 1981, up from 13.5% in 1970 and 13.7% in 1977. As a
percent of state enterprise investment, the energy sector enterprises have
in recent years accounted for more than 50% and are expected to do so during
the Fifth Plan period. Four agencies in particular have contributed the
bulk of these investments: EGAT accounted for 55-75% of total public
investment in the energy sector, MEA for 5-15%, and PEA for 10-25%. PTT's
investments were minor as recently as 1979, but were very sizable in 1980
and 1981, when they accounted for almost a quarter of total public
investments in the energy sector in connection with the construction of the
gas pipeline. For the Fifth Plan period, EGAT is expected to retain its
large share in energy spending, with PTT continuing to grow in importance as
it is involved in further gas and oil development and utilization projects.
Power Subsector
30.        Electricity Enterprises.  Thailand has three autonomous state
enterprises in the power subsector. EGAT is responsible for generation and
transmission and sells bulk power to large industrial consumers and to the
two power distribution authorities. The Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) supplies power to the Bangkok metropolitan area, and the Provincial
Electricity Authority (PEA) caters to the rest of the country.
31.        Power Market and Supply.  At the end of FY81, EGAT represented
about 83% of the country-s generating capacity of about 4,600 MW. PEA and
NEA had 4.3%, and self-generating industries, 12.9% of the capacity. As to
the sources of electricity, in FY81, steam plants represented about 50% of
Thailand's installed capacity, hydro, 30%, gas turbines, 13%, and diesel,
7%. About 71% of the electricity generated during FY81 relied on imported
sources of energy. Total electricity consumption was 13,886 GWh in FY81 or
290 kWh per capita.
32.        Rural Electrification.  Provision of power to the provincial areas
began on a planned basis only in 1960 with the formation of PEA. Since
1969, the number of consumers increased at an annual average rate of 14.6%,
and the energy sales rose by 19.7% per annum. The proportion of population



- 12 -
electrified in PEA's area increased from 9.5% in 1968 to 35.7% in 1981. PEA
expects this rapid growth rate to continue for some time due to its large
village electrification program and the acceleration in conversion of diesel
engines to electric power brought about by increases in fuel prices and
shortages of diesel fuel. The Government directed PEA to plan an
Accelerated Rural Electrification Program in 1973 and to give priority to
the more backward areas. The annual rate of villages connected rose from
940 in 1974 to 5,155 in 1981. In accordance with the directive, PEA
originally planned to electrify most of the villages in Thailand in about 25
years, but now plans to do so by the late 1980s. In view of the magnitude
of PEA's rural electrification programs now under implementation, this
target is believed to be feasible.
33.       Sector Coordination.  Coordination among the different government
agencies concerned with the electricity subsector is achieved through close
working relationships promoted by two separate arrangements. The first is
the Load Forecast TJorking Group, made up of representatives from the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), the National Energy
Administration (NEA), EGAT, PEA and MEA. The working group ensures that the
subsector market development and the utilities investment programs required
to support it are consistent in size, technical characteristics and timing.
The second arrangement is manifested by the current procedure for setting
electricity rates whereby attention is given to the cross-funding necessary
to ensure that each utility generates an adequate proportion of its capital
investment and to prevent cash imbalances among EGAT, PEA and MEA.
34.       The Government has been promoting further subsector coordination
in other ways. In 1977, the Committee on Power Policy and Development
(CPPD) was formed to oversee the functioning and development of the subsec-
tor and to provide overall coordination. In recognition of the importance
of energy issues, the Ministry of Science, Energy and Technology was
established in 1979. Coordination in the power subsector is satisfactory
while possibilities for further strengthening of policy coordination of the
energy sector as a whole are being pursued through continuing dialogue with
the Government and under the Structural Adjustment loans to Thailand.
35.       Tariff Levels.  Tariff levels were adequate throughout the late
1960s and the early 1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained
strong. During that period, the electricity sector enjoyed substantial
economies of scale through shifts to hydroelectric and large steam genera-
tion coupled with rapid increases in the demand and number of consumers.
Tariffs were reduced from time to time during these years. However, the
fuel crisis and economic slowdown of 1973/74 necessitated large increases in
tariffs, but only partial adjustments were politically feasible.



- 13 -
36.       Severe droughts in 1977 and 1978 adversely affected the thermal/
hydro generation mix, while in 1979 fuel oil prices increased some 115%. In
an attempt to prevent higher energy costs from accelerating inflation, the
Government chose to delay passing the rising costs of electricity to con-
sumers. By mid-1979, the Government, faced with mounting criticism of its
handling of the economy, introduced direct budgetary subsidies on electri-
city tariffs, costing an estimated $9.0 million a month.  In 1980, however,
the government agreed to a Plan of Action to remove subsidies and restore
the sector s financial viability, in connection with EGAT's Mae Moh Lignite
Project (Loan 1852-TH).  This plan was implemented through a surcharge for
heavy consumers established in August 1980 and tariff increases in October
1980, January 1981 and April 1981. Thus, despite a difficult political
climate and rapid inflation, the Government implemented overall increases in
EGAT-s electricity tariff of 158% between February 1980 and April 1981, and
eliminated oil subsidies.
37.       The present tariff structure contains a substantial subsidy from
large consumers in favor of small consumers. Although in general this is
desirable, tariffs for the lower bracket groups of residential consumers are
unnecessarily low. As mentioned in para. 43, this is affecting PEA's
earning power. Both PEA and the Government are aware of this situation. A
Subcommittee on Tariff Structure was formed recently to look into this
matter. It is expected that adjustments will be gradually introduced as the
political and social realities of the country allow them.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
38.       The Bank made two loans totalling $100 million to PEA to finance
its Accelerated Rural Electrification projects, and eleven loans to EGAT and
its predecessor totalling $542 million, to help finance power plants and
transmission facilities. Another loan of $72 million was made to EGAT for
lignite production (Loan 1852-TEl, Mae Moh Lignite Project). The first eight
power projects to EGAT have been completed and are all operating satisfac-
torily. The ninth and tenth projects (Bang Pakong Thermal and Khao Laem
Hydro), for which loans were made in FY79 and FY80, respectively, are
proceeding satisfactorily except that some delays are expected for the Khao
Laem Project because of difficult foundation conditions. The most recent
operation with EGAT was a loan of $100 million for the Power Subsector
Project (Loan 2000-TH), the work on which started recently. PEA's first
Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH) of $25.0 million
became effective in June 7, 1978. Of a total of 4,560 villages, 2,970 have
been electrified and another 1,060 villages are entering into construction.
A loan of $75 million for PEA-s Second Accelerated Rural Electrification
Project (Loan 1871-TH) was made in FY80 and did not become effective until
August 20, 1981 due to delays in complying with cross-effectiveness
requirements with co-lenders. The project will cover about 7,800 villages;



- 14 -
construction has started in the first 480 villages. Continuation of Bank's
financial assistance to PEA's development program is considered necessary to
pursue the support to improvements in PEA's operations.
Project Performance Audits
39.       To date no project performance audit reports (PPARs) have been
prepared in respect to PEA-s operations. PPARs have been prepared on three
of the early loans to EGAT, the First Power Project (Loan 655-TH), the South
Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH) and the Ban Chao Nen
(Srinagarind) Hydroelectric Project (Loan 977-TH). The PPARs concluded that
the major objectives of the project were met. EGAT complied with all the
covenants and its financial performance was satisfactory. PEA has conducted
its own post-evaluation of two projects already completed (not financed by
the Bank). Both projects met or exceeded their objectives and had economic
rates of return in excess of 23%.
PEA - The Borrower
40.       PEA was established in September 1960 as a state enterprise
reporting to the Ministry of Interior. PEA is responsible for the
distribution of electricity throughout the country except in the
Metropolitan Bangkok area, which is served by MEA. At the end of FY81, PEA
had 965 offices grouped in 12 regional areas. In FY81, 96% of PEA
requirements were purchased from EGAT, about 3% from MEA and NEA and the
balance generated from diesel plants.
41.       During the past five years PEA has experienced a rapid growth.
The number of customers has more than doubled, the annual investment program
has increased threefold, and revenues from sales in FY81 was about four
times those of FY77. It is expected that this pace will continue in the
coming four or five years.
42.       Recognizing the need to adjust its operations to cope with this
growing volume of activity, and as a result of discussions with the Bank, in
early 1982, PEA retained local consultants to carry out a diagnosis of its
operations. The diagnosis indicated that PEA would need to strengthen in
the future various areas of its operations, such as planning, budgeting,
materials management, training and data processing. Under the project, PEA
will implement those adjustments considered necessary to modernize and
strengthen its operations (para. 52).
PEA's Financial Position
43.       At the end of FY81 PEA/s financial position was adequate with debt
as percentage of its capital structure at 41% (below the maximum 60%
covenanted), a current ratio of 1.7, debt service coverage of 1.6 and a rate



- 15 -
of return on revalued fixed assets of 4.8%. Nevertheless, during the past
few years, the effects of PEA's growing investment program, and the rapid
expansion of electricity services to small rural consumers who are in the
lower tariff brackets, have exerted a downward pressure on PEA's rate of
return and contribution to construction.
44.       Present covenants require EGAT and the sector to produce rates of
return on net revalued fixed assets of not less than 2% in FY81 and 8% in
FY82 and thereafter, and PEA to earn rates of return consistent with the
sector's requirements. These convenants as applicable to the future years
will be continued in the proposed loan. (Section 3.02 of the draft Guaran-
tee Agreement and Section 5.04 of draft Loan Agreement). In FY81 the sector
rate of return was 8.8% and EGAT-s was 8.3%, while for FY82, the rates of
return for EGAT, PEA and the sector were 9.2%, 7.3% and 8.9%, respectively.
Under the assumptions followed, the covenanted rates of return can be
accomplished with modest tariff increases. PEA would need to generate funds
equivalent to a rate of return of about 6% during the period FY83 through
FY86 to meet its financial requirements in terms of operating expenditures,
investment, debt service and liquidity. After FY86, when the investment
program is expected to be substantially smaller, PEA's cash generation
requirements will decrease gradually. The financial projections assume that
some cross-funding will take place among EGAT, PEA and MEA by EGAT charging
higher bulk tariffs to MEA than to PEA. According to those projections
PEAs long-term debt is expected to remain below the maximum of 60% of the
capital structure and the current ratio will exceed 1.3.
45.       Under Loan 2000-TH the Government undertook to have periodic
reviews of the tariffs of the three utilities to ensure that: (a) they are
adequate to meet the covenanted rates of return; and (b) they accomplish the
required cross funding among the three utilities as needed to enable them to
carry out their respective investment programs. Similarly under Loan
1871-TH, PEA agreed to review by April 30 every year the adequacy of its
tariffs to produce the required rate of return. PEA is also required to (a)
maintain a fuel/power purchase cost adjustment charge in its tariffs; and
(b) to secure the Bank's approval on borrowing if its long-term debt exceeds
60% of its capitalization and if its short- and medium-term debt exceeds 10%
of its total debt. These undertakings will be continued under the proposed
loan (Sections 5.04(c) and (d), 5.05, and 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Sections 3.02 and 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
46.       PEA has relied heavily on financing from foreign sources of con-
cessionary funds and is expected to continue relying on them in the future.
The major agencies supporting PEA are Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of West Germany,
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund for International Development. Exchange
risk on foreign loans is normally assumed by PEA.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       In 1964 PEA introduced a scheme by which villages that requested
to be electrified should provide some materials and half of the labor
needed.  This became known as the Normal Rural Electrification Program
(NREP). In recent years the practice has been for the villages to make a
monetary contribution equivalent to those materials and labor, which
facilitates compliance with technical specifications.  This contribution
represents about 25% to 30% of the cost of village electrification. The
balance was originally financed from government budget contributions but
later subsidized domestic loans to PEA from the Krung Thai Bank and the
Ministry of Finance replaced such grants.
48.       The NREP is open to applications from villages from all over the
country and complements other rural electrification projects. Typically,
villages under the NREP were not originally included in other ongoing
programs because, at that time, they were too distant from the grid.
However, since the transmission lines have been extended through different
schemes, the electrification of these villages has become feasible. Map
IBRD 16683 shows the regional distribution of PEA's rural electrification
projects. During the last 4 years the NREP has electrified close to 9,000
villages and extended electric service in another 2,000 partially electrified
villages. At end-1982 there was a backlog of about 7,600 villages which had
applied for electrification under the NREP.
49.       In recent years, the demand for electrification under the NREP has
increased but the availability to PEA of local loans, the major traditional
source of financing for the NREP, has become scarce. In view of this, PEA
structured a five-year program (1983 to 1987) which would facilitate access
to foreign sources of financing. The program was divided into two phases,
the first of which has been approved by the Government for external funding.
This first phase of the program has been split into two identical projects
to be financed by the Bank and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)
of Japan, respectively. (OECF's interest rate is 3.0% p.a. with a total
repayment period of 30 years, including 10 years grace period.) The second
phase would electrify about 2,000 villages, expand the electric service in
2,000 other villages and would be implemented from mid-1985 to end-1987. A
Bank appraisal mission visited Thailand in July 1982. A staff appraisal
report entitled "Provincial Power Distribution Project" (No. 4201-TH) dated
May 17, 1983 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
April 20-26, 1983. The Government and PEA delegations were headed,
respectively, by H.E. Kasem S. Kasemsri, Ambassador to the USA and Dr. Vira
Pitrachat, General manager.



- 17 -
Description
50.      The proposed project has two parts.  Under Part A, the project will
help finance a part of the first phase of the NREP five-year program, to be
implemented from 1983 to 1986. It is expected to cover about 1,500
unelectrified villages and the extension of electric service in another
1,500 partially electrified villages.
51.       The project is expected to extend electricity service to about
130,000 households in rural areas.  At the village level, the project
consists of installing the power distribution network, household meters and
connections. The villages to be financed under the loan will be selected
according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement) based mainly on average cost per connection and minimum
economic rate of return of 10%.
52.       Part B  of the project includes the implementation of a group of
actions aimed at strengthening and modernizing PEA's operations. PEA, with
assistance from the Bank, has prepared Terms of Reference to retain
consultants to assist PEA in these objectives.
53.       The cost of these consultants services is estimated at about
$1.0 million. It provides for 108 manr-months of consulting services. The
average man-month cost, including salary, costs, fees, international travel
and subsistence, is $9,200. PEA has requested a grant equivalent to $1.0
million from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB). The
Australian Government has already given preliminary approval to this
cofinancing proposal.
54.       During negotiations PEA agreed that in the unlikely event that by
September 30, 1983, the grant from ADAB has not materialized, PEA will
furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1983, for Bank comments, a Plan of
Action. Such Plan would contain the alternate arrangements for introducing
the necessary adjustments in PEA-s operations to improve its overall
efficiency. PEA also agreed that in such event, the Plan of Action would be
carried out in a timely manner, taking into account the Bank's comments
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
55.       The estimated cost of the project is $51.6 million with a foreign
exchange component of $31.6 million, including the capitalized front-end fee
of $0.1 million on the proposed Bank loan.  The cost estimate is based on
March 1983 price levels and includes about $3.3 million of taxes and custom
duties to be paid by PEA. Physical contingencies were assumed to be about
8% based on PEA-s past experience in distribution projects. The price
contingencies for foreign costs were calculated on the basis of the follow-
ing assumed rates of escalation:  8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985



- 18 -
and 6% for 1986 and thereafter. For local costs, the price contingencies
were assumed at 7% for 1983 through 1985 and 6% for 1986 and thereafter.
The proposed Bank loan of $30.6 million would cover the total foreign
exchange financing requirements of Part A of the project and would be
equivalent to about 59% of the total estimated financing requirements.
Total project cost net of taxes and duties is $48.3 million. The proposed
Bank loan represents 63% of such cost. The cost of consultancy services for
Part B of the project, estimated at the equivalent of $1.0 million, will be
financed from a grant from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau.
The local funds requirement of $20.0 million equivalent would be met by a
$12.6 million contribution from the villages being electrified and the
balance from PEA's self-generated funds.
Implementation
56.        The planning, engineering and construction of the project will be
coordinated by PEA's Project and Planning Division and the subprojects will
be implemented by the regional offices. Construction is expected to start
from June 1983, using materials from PEA's inventories if necessary. The
total implementation period will be from mid-1983 through December 1986.
Most of the distribution lines would follow main or village roads.  In the
past, PEA has experienced little difficulty in obtaining easements over
farmland since villagers welcome the provision of electric service.
Procurement
57.        Except for concrete poles and minor items, all equipment and
materials to be financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. A preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or
the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers. Local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be applied to: (a) concrete poles (as shipping
charges would not warrant concrete poles being procured internationally);
and (b) other minor items costing less than $100,000 each and up to an
aggregate amount of $2.5 million. Contracts for equipment and materials
exceeding $500,000 would require the Bank's prior review of the tender
documents and approval of the contract awards.
Disbursement
58.        Disbursement from the proposed loan would be made against:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment
and materials;
(b) 100% of ex-factory cost for equipment and material manufactured
locally;



- 19 -
(c) 65% of total expenditures for equipment and materials
procured locally; and
(d) 47% of total expenditures ex-factory for concrete poles.
Since the proposed loan would be the first to finance a time-slice of an
ongoing electrification program in Thailand, there are no disbursement
profiles available that could be applicable. The disbursement schedule was
derived using PEA's experience with ongoing projects. No disbursements
would be made in respect of payments made prior to loan signing. The
closing date of the proposed loan would be June 30, 1987.
Monitoring
59.       PEA has established an effective system to monitor its investment
under the two ongoing Accelerated Rural Electrification projects and to
assess the impact of such projects in the electrified villages. A similar
system will be applied to monitor the proposed project.
Environmental Effects
6O.       The project is not expected to cause any significant environmental
problem.
Justification and Benefits
61.       The Government of Thailand places a high priority on rural devel-
opment as a key element supporting its dual objective of promoting economic
growth and alleviating poverty. In this context rural electrification in
Thailand has played a decisive role in promoting economic development in
rural areas. The proposed project complements existing and ongoing electri-
fication projects and enhances the benefits of the capital investment in
those projects. The proposed project is expected to result in substantial
benefits in rural development and welfare in terms of cost savings compared
to fuels used for lighting and commercial operations, increased opportuni-
ties for commercial and cottage industry activities as well as for educa-
tional and leisure activities. The villages that form part of the NREP, by
contributing to its investment cost are demonstrating their willingness to
pay for electricity services. They are also contributing to mobilize domestic
savings towards a development project that will directly benefit them.
62.       The NREP Program in its two phases will benefit about 10,000
villages covering about 425,000 customers and about 2.5 million people. It
will generate benefits from sales of electricity, tangible indirect benefits
(savings in fuel costs, increased productivity), and social benefits derived



- 20 -
from improvements in communications, education and hygiene. The proposed
project will benefit about 3,000 villages covering about 127,000 customers.
As is customary with other rural electrification projects, in calculating
the economic rate of return for this project, in addition to the direct
benefits (derived from the sale of electricity), indirect benefits were
included to better reflect the overall benefits of the project. The
indirect benefits consisted of a conservative estimate of the various cost
savings (as in household lighting) and productivity increases (as in cottage
industries) for the different consumer groups to be served by the project.
The economic rate of return calculated on this basis over the life of the
project is estimated at 14%.
Risks
63.       The project risks are acceptable.  The two accelerated Rural Elec-
trification projects financed by the Bank faced start-up delays. Neverthe-
less, since the NREP is an ongoing program, such delays are less likely to
occur. The sensitivity analysis shows that if project costs increase by 20%
the economic rate of return (ERR) would be reduced from 14% to 12%. On the
other hand, if benefits are reduced by 20% (due to less-tharr-expected connec-
tion rate, load or savings) the ERR would be 11%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Provincial
Electricity Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are referred to in the text are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 18, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE1tGS
AREA (TOUSAND SQ.                                                                    -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            514.0                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     182.6              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        ASIA A PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 110.0       230.0     670.0                 890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      59.5       195.2    352.9                 701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27039.0    36431.0   46950.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5        13.2      14.4                 32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       100.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       52.6        70.9      89.3                255.4                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    208.8       259.2    251.3                1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        46.2      41.9                 39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        50.8      55.0                 56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.1                  3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.7         3.0       2.5                  2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              4.5         3.5       3.4                  3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.6         39.7      30.0                  31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    14.9         10.8       7.9                   9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         2.8       2.0                  2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       202.9/c  761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          7.6      39.0                 36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       100.0    125.0                 115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   99.0       100.7      96.9/d              106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          44.7        48.7      47.57?               54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       1060        14.2      15.27?                13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.3         7.9       4.5                   6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   52.3         57.9      62.5                  59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          103.0        74.6      54.8                 63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      22.0/e               32.0                     65.6
URBAN                               *-        60.0      49.07d               51.9                     78.9
RURAL                               ..        10.0      12.07oe              20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      40.0/f               37.7                     59.3
URBAN                               *-        65.0      58.07?               65.7                     75.3
RURAL                               *          8.0      36.07?               24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7948.0      8446.8   8222.5/e              8540.4                   1617.3
d                     POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4857.9/J    7045.3   1166.27e              4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HiOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1384.4       896.1    821.0/e              1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                               ..       176.0    525.77i               651.6                    679.8
RURAL                               ..    13884.8    1278.47?              2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      44.8/e               27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/S       5.8       5.5/e
URBAN                              5. 3        5.8       5.57.
RURAL                              5.6/g       5.8       5.57*-
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       2.4/e
URBAN                               ..          ..       2.2/e.
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.4/
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        18.9
URBAN                               ..        86.1
RURAL                               *         9.0



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCILL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         81.0      82.0/d                 96.2                    104.3
MALE                  88.0        85.0       85.07id                99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                79.0        77.0       78.07                  92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      29.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALE                  16.0        20.0       30.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEKALE                10.0        14.0       28.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    19.1          22.3      17.1/e                 20.8                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.2         34.7      28.9/d                 35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          19.8         15.5      26.97;                 25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         78.6      84.0/e                 73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.8          5.1       6.4/f                  9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         76.2     131.0                  116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.2          6.6      17.6                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         20.5        ..                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           1.8/h     1.7                    2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13859.9      16986.9   22428.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.4        46.8       46.0                   33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              84.0         80.0      76.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0         6.0        9.0                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6      47.8                   38.5                      33.6
MALE                                 52.7         49.3      51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9      44.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1       0.9                    1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCFNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/         23.S/i    14.0/..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97jt      49.771    42.27.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2TR         6.171     7.673 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97jg       15.97i    19.1.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     159.0                  194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     106.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                  178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0                  164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      15.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; If 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; / Preliminary data for
1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional
data overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisona.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                      ANNEX I1
B"Irzm m AWL&                                                 ~~Page  3 of  5
-stfs-lly ceqoerebte botms  of te lock of eardsddeflottte    -od eoonpc  co.  by dIP m-t soatis   no noi-leo   the dt.-  eth  doe  oe
theta.. ooPa  to desibe order. Of  egita~de. ledltot  toads. sod                                 -I..troeocof  s)o  diftftenoe  hawencontle
M. o  efot-c  gr=ot e   (L) the           s .me .ntry gtoop Of tOe -abloot oozsry Ao  (2) 5  -tCwtY 9toop toth easehot hisho- o-eag  Inco    thon the coun.try PxnO
of the  nhjenoootry(on-rt f. or    itoh  ost0- Oilopocto-o" groop th-r 'lddle locom  ri-th Atrlio ted fiddle soot" Ls ohasec becoot  Of orno
eoio-oltn... Iafflitoto).  In the. refere-  stro  dora the  vrao  or   opOto ethted otith-ett mesas for eoh OodSnatot .ad oho   only when
mejority Of the nosotrito  in a grap h.a dots for tht tedlotor.  Sine che coe Ogof contrite snn  the lodlostoro depnd, en the ovalobtitty of data
ond Os eot  itfo._, ooogioo  -s  he .C"orlod 10 rolotlogsroe   Ofottdott to esth.  Thee. atcge                           .r only sofal to -oporlog the rais  Of
ARMA fthoasod oq.ko.)                                                                         P ..oistlse ge  Koprs l         totol. _rEb, and  -aro  - ?opnistLco  (total,
Tato1 - Tot)  scI  c   Irscqriglnd ore  sod dold wotono  1979 dots.                           obe, sod rati  dioldd by their teopotlo  -sebo  of haoltdo
Oolotrl- ERoooe Of ogriaoltn...l ore  aod  t              Orvrlya  peomecely           tro biel  L. onblio sod priett  Stootel oed epotiolfoe  hoepiool aolr-
for crpe, peeor-  sachet ad hitcher goCdeo  or to lIe. follo; 1979 dane.                    hbIlltitsnlsaetr.-   Koepit.le no eetbliobe-te pormoetly otefPo
by se lIs.  etc. phytkiofo . Etblih-ette prvidlog prlsoipolly cotta
Su  pzPt  CApITA 11S)) - fGy Per caIta eai-cc on cret sotkt prints. aol-                        di.1l.aor  -e  at Itldod,  .CKelop1 oo  heetee, LIncido brolo
atlote  by som     -.tve.. method .e told  -kt AtLas (1978480 hoLa); 1960,                    sod -edi-SI  -te-er  tot Pesotly etttfd bY a pyinylcis  (hot hr n
1971, sod 1980 data.                                                                          medlos somiente. tarn,  idwife, etcj  hlch Offert-oia                 ca
dotiot ad Pto-ida 0 limIted term Of indlcsl fcllftlot. for etetlo-
tSflO  1COMPtfytIOaoPR CAPOITA - sA-oo   --oaption of co-oisi eeats foca                        ti-.l ptrntoo. soh   hoeleoIo latiode P90plcyo/eee  halot
so Ignite,petoCe-. natural  .. sod hYlto-,..oslas  ad ge-thetl tin-                        ad nata  hmpitole. loca  arrorI hosorlat ad  -dicol sod  --toty
CrLity) Ln ktllatoM  Of -ool poirIete Pet .sPIt-; 19ff, 1970. ood 1979                       retete.  Spooillied  eept.Ie  "ea iwalodod oay ndrr  wtonl.
dens.                                                                                       Admd.isoog per NEeplos Bed - Tonol eubot at  ddmltio   t ce flerbargeS.
PPUAnong   AlIM VITAL STATISTICSI.                                                                      ntl   l74.dyC.,bCO    ..
Tot  al Pooltiot. Mid-Test (theeo-de) -  Oof JulY 1; 1960 *1970, end 1990                 wmi
data;o.                                                                                   Mrs So ftoahed(  reAoaIoesod -Cnta,abon. o  natal-
Dtho fooOtRo (petooo t  octal) - RaIo Of orhe  to noneS popotis ;                             A hoshod-      nao    fa Profo .IFodldnltechonivgq.ttr
dlfttee    dorticicon   of _bto  tors  ey affect.. oc.octlAlo  of dots                      sod theIr solo  -.I.o.  A O.Coder or ldgo may ao may ono ho 102d io
o-t% rontiet; 19603  1970  . ad 1460 dsrs.                                                  the heVo-o-hclf foresanou   npo
opnolohlon Prajerntio                                                                       Anseeotro   r o  eeorom-  ootol. noon end toal- ots   am
ro=:tiolot 1  yoer, 11    - Crtot  epsoto  Projetisee ste booed oo 194                      boo ofpreo  per tou  to all orh, a d tarotI occopitd conolo
coc  ppltia  by op. end an Rod their mortaiy sod fertlIty ronot.                       dwrl2logt, -opectlveIy. Iwllog  sdladno-p-r-oatototrtzoe -td
Prjct    - fcster  Pot -n.rtaty rotor campor of th-e  lo-ti  saom                  -ooccay'd Pa-.
log loft  -e.roo's  bIrth  ireen    Ith ro         Prya  c  oopttntvm    I              cceAZu. to Slectrlty (por-on  f deolitoa -. caro, aha, sod tona  -
boo1  so  femon  life tootoy nnah1tllg at 77.5 Yooro  Tho yaca-                          C-trantina  deelllnot slth nIlecricoy lo  ion  qooct-rn
itoCl  tar ff:ttiloy rote alto hoo  three lo-el  -aoolg d-c1ba So                         af total. orhb-, od caro  d-ol1iogsreoproofioy.q
foro1losy ot.cdrlg no Income tel sod pse. family piolo.. ICfE mtce
tot  aort"i  the  nangoe  one of tht   lo   ohaalo f tec-liny                       fOltTCte
sod frtmlity tr-do for  - otlttfoo tt-poet.                                            fd.dto d to-oln-a  Osotas
Sratioayponooa- Iototuclonoy poyalatlot thor  Lc a  gtonh nooto                             ftlr ochoo  - tota, so.lead fotle - Grono ttti.1 solo so  fvu1l
rho hitth rote ia oq1 no the death rac, sod alto the ago  toccoe-oalsNt  fl agra  t the ptlny inoe  sprocttof roopotiv-
melo  cantiat.  Ti.t to schln-d  nipato-  footilitY r--n  decOls  toolso    coa-g   opolatlont;  -tos1Y Iroloden otidn-  ogds c-il
rho repl--eo  Se-e  of onto  -t  -ep-odotio  reta, thoo ear  "Iroac                         pat hot adjostd for dtftoceo  1e-gtho at ptts-ry ednoeti; fat
of  -en   tpl-ct  iteelf e-tly.  The otatioosy yoydalor. aloe roe-intte  -thn noloroo  od-ton fa  -ora1mn  nay otod II yer-tn
-tlotdo  the hooLe at the pco)eotod choccte-fsolos Of the yapolatLon                   elat  tom  p.p Iis ott boie or shov  tie offlolol othol ego.
Sott Year 2000, sod tt  rate of deolot  Of tottlity tote to ropI.t.-                    Serordoty athaci - toal ode, and Sfolo - toptyotd so shoot;  -ttodnoy
-n  lo-t.                                                                                   -dttoonseo   o-a  too  pr-o  of ara-ard ytli-cy lonnl
Yea atoti-o      ... oooctols  It roaLhed - The res  eho  uslntyatslo                          rvdagcr.ortoa,or toachortooo  ltttl                               for- tO
oito sill ho toohed.                                                                        tonally of 12 to 17 Yoao  of oot; -or p.tod.-t  cataac  gtootalyo
ft-s o.-iIY-o   oalc     rnsat        (laot   100 hoctucee) of                  fososa ear-       aoc   Pet-rn fO ..tootdat    - Vo-iatoo  to. lonoo
COta1 are; 1960. 1900 sod1079 tars.fI. Ooiao   .ot                                                                ..l Osatial, at athec no-so- 'oiho  otoo-  tadafrJd
yor o- km. ssI.o. re  oa         C.epated 00 shor  tot  gottcltorl Inod                     outlyatt depacteont Of  -oodor  ia lro da..
oly; 1961.  97D'sod 1979 Idots.                                                       t'nIPl-tohtono-i         ter.ad  ood            - Tono1otdeooenolld to
PaasinAgeOrcoe(otn)-Chitldor- (0-is ylroc). totktog-oe (15-                             prisov   so.eodt   otoStie   ooheaa  le-h-r In th.
ta "est), sod rec"d(Al-yar  sod  00)synttooof mid-yost pope-                                oorroofaodio1 lcas
ltioo; 1960, 1970. sod 1980 date.1 Mutt.-rosa rot foo--oc  -  Iterate odato  (ails to red sad onto)
Poonlotio Ga_toh Rton  (oront) -wtots   - oAn)' froob Outs Of toto1 mid-                      so a pectoroge Of total adoLt yooltln  or  15 yeats and over.
yosP Poploti- tao 1950-60, 1996-79, sod 1970-to.
Ponoto lnt tot letot -abu- do-nL growh cott  of orion Porn-                         CONOLOaTIfO
lationo for 195I0-. 16-71  sod 1975-al.                                                  P..o.r. to(prtetodryosto -                    faseagr oCooepta    nto
(ndC  ltIon(ottesn)-fno  lIve hitth. pot thontaud tf old-res                                 0000 .tootto,oete   ih   ano;rooo   tocct oro   n
ppato;1960, 190., sod 1940 deco.                                                     -lioYohfl.
Ctadt loath tote (-otcheotod) - Atona  d-eht pot th-to-d  of sod-yostrteAd 10 itotoe-  (ptcthootod pploo)-All typet Of t-ol-o  for t-do
toroonft1; 1Iff, 1970. sod 1940 dttt.,                                                      hrood-attc Conoul publcpr  th-asod -frrltlo   alon   o
hot rooms  tePoodttivo p.thod if she vopeotiece  pro....n age-opelflo frt-noc  ea  lo otteco; dons for  -aoo  Y'oat  -Y oat ho  -oP.tbhi  fIct
tllty Ctstt; canlly  flot-ot errotediog Is 1960, 1970, sod 1900.                            not  -onttiooabollahod lcal
faslr ftntlt-A totcot, dA-oa lthesaald    -           -solosle  of onctyltr           TV R.- norlen    r ttheoat ...    tlt)-  V tatcttoct tar itlan  to
of  irt-crtto  doiLe  tudorsolp   frnae   oiypsoo  prolts.                            greco  tpoil  P.. thute..oogo;otoe   oIcoo.n  TV t-tttt
femflpPlenatp - Isra (osoton o estridateot  - PetnoSg  at osreld               LIto catioo sod So yearn thon tfcsno of TV rote va  to offoct
toom  ofohIl-herio,opo(15-44 Ye-.) who onbir'h-caoccol  d-rdoee no                  Ocronape clttloltlo    (,ro thooa...J oclto  -Sho tho Orotoe nI-
oh  osrOc    a-u I ous sgn ro-.                                                     taltlo  at "dolly ge..arn1 iotortvo.-opapr'  dfodtprllu
vohlctln  evoedrctotsytocrattogoeotl  tm.Ititna.ndtd
Iadooof rad Prdoocot oa  Osrts (169-7-lff  - lden  f per n-plto  nol        Cos.os   edavrtCyt patftatr - Board IaNth  -.v- at
Loutof of.ntn  wic  aeL dihle sod  -aordoonrlacaCo. roOffo  sod
ton se  aaolded). Iggeeggto prodootI..of ..oh  -ttoty it boacd ao                      1.030 P000C1
nettnsistorge  rodoee  vl- orghts; 19f6-1  1970, sod 1900 daco.                   Tonal labor fr- (then... do) - Elc..o.lt-lly ccloPtf-0,  lolaloog
-trgy oqitalo-  of-  food orpIfo-  -nolshlo In n-octy P-c o-pits                            caecn  fpalOO    of ala'.. ono.Orlnrbno0                ...os  nooo  or
a.r day.'A-slaho euppllce  -optlae domotolt p-odatinhon  LoPorr  et                        oat..a-onblo; 1960. 1970 -ed 1910 data,
onprro  so   hsgo  raac.to   pflo  ooa -d osl food, utede,                                 feIe...vo)-    Ielaltr  ot  oo overrttago of total lbor for-e
nootoo  se  t  od pottg,sd' lote       di ittiholr.  Roqtlo                       ultlo (fcot-    Lbor fot-  to formIng. fo-etY, h-ftotr  ted
note -tt  potettdihy PAO ispod an--llosa   od. for  -oos  anti-                           fi.htt6 sorr-1f   f  oa  lhat fort; 1961. 1970 sod 19   dot.-
S                    ~~~~~~tIy _od (olth r nasdetttg  -oro-oo         t         brrtt. hdy wttht-.  tE.           tnd-attIveonty-ao  totte 11        to- lno0  nooetcoatio..mo-faoroog
sod at di-tlaib n  f  opialo.  sod sl1wiag 10 p.rrn ..             Oat vote at               and eloron,tnradota   ettnn   tttllbtfcc
htootohold le-o; 1961465, 19ff td 19ff dali.                                                 16.17an1900 daco.
Oat tptl(of 0od  at do.  ift suply   f rod It defltodstthov.  so                 otto    ;so   ap -napno  attotl   .s.,so  foal  labor fott  o
qttitomto for oil a-ottite .1tbhliohd hy USlIA pr-ito tot rdniet                           eapta-ooe  of onto1, selt ad tattle cooato f all sgeo  -epe-t  010
oa-tso ft6 grss  of total crOnthe pen day sod 20 groom  at -r-a  and                      1969, 1970, -nd 19801 dots.  IIote at  It..d -o ILo' psntitfolptnrr-e
raio eatet.  f olntIIgt    thadornecpratb.   is  sed                                rttloti_ga        --nrtat-r  of rio paaof.sd loot tin  tred.  A
solesl pcolol se sooeofor the wld. poopotd by tFAO io ohtIrd                             Econsot lep-dev-  Paet  - ooooo ofrrlioador 15 od 65 on-od
World toad Sorvy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 ds.-                                              no tho loca  loorfb oo
Petocrospeoointoelyteo oima ae elre-  rotsla wappl  of food do-
tlvod Pm- onol cad pua.I t- te    e  doy; 1961-h5, 1970 and 1917 dots.                 0000900 OlttltOUTtO
Chil (sot -4) eot 8se (tt nvased) - -OoId nth  pot thaooand Oo                  tsre t at er"tosc  Ina-  (hath to 7cuoh od clod) - Ot-ocodtby tCkhe
trle, fats d-tln-d fro  lifo tablet; 1969. 1970 sod 19f8dos                                of hoa-ho1do.
H519 MrE OVERTY T ARG T StaOrPS
sopth L16,17  sod 1960D dos                                                        sod ohoodh=      nen   oo   lh  oodtbeoal
lafsc trtoltytot (ac nosond)-analdoeth  of loftor  -udor atype                    EotIated Ahoolo- P-orn bonorl 15 coIai    -oinsdtpo-
of  Se  er hantodlIt  htths  160, 1970 tad 1900 dos                                 haae  ae- ooo  ee   ocetlcm   e                         beoohca   Laas
docee toiafoWone (twctenof nnaiobsoy- osal. ,rhs.  -d taro  - No-             -otrhtnl-lly adqot7 Icon tine etsta o-food rnfosois wan
heratpepin(nis. uhn,-od coosil) with t-osealeb actor  no  afaffordable.
tote  so pply (Ieldoo   .treod r-f-c  _et'- or soCt.otd hot -ntutom            .id       toltdSaae'  Yaet Soosm isto  (lS ret topical -abat and frai-
tetc cchce hectte o--eoo  he-oholse  eprip, and  -tattry wIt) toCnlrino%aet   ooslve   soetldo   tvg   e   sito
Pt-Ctnrsaa     of rhen   epets   poplotioo.  Ia as atn ette a pohl                          pe--al Locoo  of theoonr. -          rtat It-o  It dtotvd Pius the coc
tonlolo Or et-dpret lo-rd -Wasar  ths 200 meters Icc o Mo-  saY he                          .-I with adlarono  f- orhfo  coat of tlntet to nrooaso
os-u-Loced se hetg elJthl  rose bsi  aneeof that heser,  La cana  sta                    Sotjeato Pr-Iti.tc  Below Abeclato Po tvt to-a  Lee-1ooot  - bata
treonolo  ttet woldIqly th-c Ch. h-sawft  Ot mebora of tU. htameoid                 mad carol  F-  te  of papolatln (utto and mC-1) who sno  bhaat
do at tea" to epsd a dtcptapr-lus-  pc  of rho dot  in fa..obus, the
fomtly,'t wtr  nede.
n-bt  f pspi  (tota, srea  adcao)   teao   y  nrt diepoe1 se
ponroe   t thelt caprceirt poPtIotou.-   ocE--    dlopoeL -ly LIsad
the  .aAnts        ad leeoI. sor  or elre-t trsen. of h.so  -oe
sod rste-wter by tnrbon   ysta  ar the aer OP pin ptietlo ad clo-
Peewotla peLVtML.oss fetn- Pa.rlstlo  dittoed by aatso  of prsoleIsa                                                                       toy 1901
-d Lets                                    --s. ,stiimnWCoe-



- 24 -                                                      age X
Population    : 47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita: US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at             Average annual increase (8)                    Share of GDP at market prices (%)
current prices)                (at constant prices)                               (at current prices)
Indicator                      1981 /a       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960           1970         1975        1981/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product       36,808           8.4      6.3       7.6       5.5         5.4     100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0
Agriculture                 8,935           5.5      5.3       3.2       3.7         4.0      39.8         28.3         31.5        24.3
Industry                   10,399          11.5      7.8      11;4       6.6         6.0      18.7         25.3         24.8        28.2
Services                   17,474           9.0      7.1       7.9       6.3         5.7      41.5         46.4         43.7        47.5
Consumption                  27,920           7.3      7.0       7.5       4.4         4.8      85.7         78.7         79.3        75.9
Gross investment             10,278          15.8      3.8       8.2       3.0         6.0      15.7         26.2         25.4        27.9
Exports of GNFS               9,212          10.5      3.6      13.4       8.9         6.9      17.4         16.7         19.1        25.0
Imports of GNFS              10,899          13.9      3.7      10.5       2.7         5.9      18.9         21.5         23.7        29.6
Gross national savings        7,716          13.7      4.1       5.5       8.0         7.1      14.1         21.5         20.7        21.0
Composition of merchandise trade (%)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports           7,013           5.5      9.0      14.4       7.0         5.8    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                     4,530           4.2      6.6      10.0       6.1         5.0     97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.8    38.7
Manufactures                2,483          29.2     20.9      25.1       7.7         6.4      2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.2    61.3
Merchandise imports           9,933          11.5      3.3      10.8       2.6         5.7    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                          380           4.3     -2.7      11.9       0.0         6.0      9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4       3.6     3.5
Petroleum                   2,982          11.8      5.0       8.7       1.6         0.0     10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    27.8    23.4
Machinery & equipment       2,494          16.1      5.9       7.4       4.7         7.3     25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    26.0    27.1
Others                      4,077          10.1      1.0       9.3       4.7         8.1     54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    42.6    46.0
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                      100.0      103.3     112.1      121.8     136.9      159.3     173.6
Exchange rate                                      20.4       20.4      20.4       20.3      20.3       20.5      21.82
Export price index                                100.0       97.3      99.4      107.4     128.3      151.7     153.3
Import price index                                100.0     105.5      113.4      122.3     141.4      175.6     197.4
Terms of trade index                              100.0       92.2      87.6       87.8      90.8       86.4       77.7
As % of GDP
1960          1970           1975           1980           1981/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                    13.6           13.8           13.2          14.0           13.9
Current expenditures                                10.6           12.6           11.8           13.5          13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          +3.0           +1.2          +1.4           +0.5           +0.8
Capital expenditure                                  4.3            5.8            3.4           3.9            3.5
Foreign financing                                    0.2            0.1            0.1            0.2           0.2
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80         1980-85/b         1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                         8.4             6.2            6.9             5.6               5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (7)              5.2             3.4            4.4             3.6               3.9
ICOR                                        2.8             4.0            3.4             4.0               3.8
Marginal savings rate                       0.29            0.23            0.21           0.3               0.3
Import elasticity                           1.7             0.6            1.3             0.5               1.05
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
April 15, 1983



-25-                                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population    : 47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL  ND DEBT
(Millions 0$ at current prices)
Actual                                                 Prjeted
Indicator                        1970    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981/d   1982    1983    1984o1985    1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
services                               1,108   3,490   4,029   4,976   6,456   7,939   8,496   9,146  10,300  11,880  13,652  15,527  25,722
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            686   2,959   3,454   4,045   5,234   6,449   6,883   6,974   7,820   8,949  10,205  11,513  18,334
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                              -1,430  -3,892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,686 -10,183 -11,425 -13,096 -14,957 -16,923 -27,578
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.         -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,928  -8,544  -9,591 -11,004 -12,581 -14,249 -23,278
Net factor income from abroad               23      -62     -99    -266    -480    -236    -498    -492    -413    -394    -370    -348    -251
Net transfers                               49       23      40       40       60     209   - 164      194      192     210      232    -255      370
*       Current account balance                   -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,079  -2,525  -1,335  -1,346  -1,400  -1,443  -1,489  -1,737
Private direct investment                   43       79     106       50      51      187      288     179      225     248      272     299      438
MLT loans (net)                              32     248     346      670   1,418   1,665   1,631       876   1,380   1,650   1,926   2,018   2,132
Official                                  21      109     181      290     488      569     621   1,371   2,043   2,024   1,885   1,676   1,554
Private /a                                10      139     165      380     930   1,096   1,010    -495    -663    -374         41      342      578
Other capital /b                            93      219     740      782   1,160      153      307     282       70      48      252     293       32
Change in reserves                          82      -96     -95    -349    -543        74     299       -2    -329    -450    -503    -535    -865
International reserves                     906   2,113   2,208   2,557   3,100   3,026   2,727   2,729   3,058   3,508   4,011   4,546   7 459
Reaerves as months imports                   8        7       5        5        5       4        3       3        3       3        3       3        3
EXrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Concessional loans                        11       52      78      153     242      230     223      460     627      726     665      583     697
DAC                                     11       45      50       86     178      176     189      392     546      654     620      563     697
IDA                                      -        7       9        5       4        5      21       17      19       16      12        5       -
Other                                    -        -      19       62      60       49      13       61      62       56      33       15       -
Nonconcessional loans                    188      467     585   1,133   1,816   2,154   2,028   1,288   1,709   2,105   2,634   3,114   4,805
Official export credits                  7        -      32        -       -        3      80       56      39       30       8        -       -
INNS                                    19       43      65      103     139      143     299      250     319      402     500      570     661
other multilateral                       2       46      33       46      36       83      64      212     212      225     312      385     457
Private publicly guaranteed             17      101     106      411     842      898     805      707   1,084   1,041      982      929   1,275
Private nonguaranteed                  143      277     349      573     799   1,027      790       64      55      406     831   1,231   2,411
Total gross disbursements                199      519     663   1,286   2,058   2,384   2,251   1,748   2,336   2,831   3,299   3,697   5,502
External Debt (fixed-tern)
Public debt outstanding &
disbursed                                328      823   1,119   1,820   2,832   4,128   5,169   6,715   8,577  10,259  11,784  13,112  18,092
Official                               291      672     895   1,254   1,671   2,315   2,843   4,307   6,350   8,374  10,260  11,936  17,852
Private                                 37      151     224      566   1,161   1,813   2,326   2,412   2,227   1,885   1,524   1,176         240
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed              382      785     880      931   1,243   1,703   2,099   1,623   1,141   1,109   1,510   2,200   5,523
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                              710   1,608   1,999   2,751   4,075   5,831   7,268   8,338   9,718  11,368  13,294  15,312  23,615
Undisbursed debt                         118      840   1,364   1,899   2,361   3,004   3,081   3,796   3,916   3,892   3,826   3,760   4,867
Debt Service
Total service payments                   162      378     442      812     962   1,224   1,325   1,689   1,785   2,081   2,357   2,786   5,115
Interest                                16      107     126      196     322      505     686      817     830      900     984   1,107   1,744
Payments as X exports of goods and    14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4    15.6    18.5    17.3    17.5    17.3    17.9    19.9
nonfactor services
Average interest rate on new loans
(X) /c                                     6.8      7.8     7.0      6.8     7.6      9.3    10.2      9.5     9.5      9.5     9.6      9.6     9.6
Official                                 6.8      7.9     6.1      5.6     5.4      6.8     7.4        -       -        -       -        -       -
Private                                  6.0      7.3     8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8         -        -       -        -       -       -
Average maturity of new loans
(years) /c                                18.9    17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
Official                                19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    22.4    21.1    22.4           -        -       -       -        -       -
Private                                 11.2      7.3     7.9      9.4    10.0      8.6     9.3        -        -       -        -       -       -
Bank Group Exposure (1)
r            3IBRD DOD/total DOD                  22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    12.9    13.8    14.6    15.5    16.4    17.3    18.3
IBRD disbursements/total gross
disbursements                          9.5      8.3    10.0      8.6     7.0      6.1    13.0    14.3    13.7    14.2    15.2    15.4    12.0
IB2D debt service/total debt
service                               11.1     9.6    10.0       6.8     6.9      6.5     6.8      7.4     8.4      8.8    10.0    10.9    12.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                          -      0.7     1.0      0.9     0.7      0.6     0.7      0.8     0.9      0.9     0.9      0.8     0.5
IDA disbursements/total gross
disbursements                            -      1.3     1.3      0.4     0.2      0.2     0.9      1.0     0.8      0.6     0.4      0.1     0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                  -     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.2      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
As % of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                            48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                           71.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                          11.2
/a  Due to change in classification, projected data for 'private MLT loans' include some of the category "other capital".
Tb  "Other capital" includes net use of IMF funds and net flow of short-tern capital.
7W Historical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
7d  Preliminary.



- 26 -                              ANNEX II
Page I of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                     Purpose         Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-seven loans and three credits fully disbursed               869.03   31.74
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                  Irrigation       95.00        -      21.43
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                 Rural Dev.        21.00(TW)   -         1.41
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                 Education         27.50        -        3.87
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                 Agriculture       28.00        -        1.21
1468   3977   Kingdom of Thailand                  Irrigation       55.00        -        9.81
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power             50.00       -        3.47
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Population            -   33.10/a      7.52
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Highways         110.00        -       14.09
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority Rural Elect.    25.00             -       2.50
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Housing            8.60        -        5.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization                                                     61.92
of Thailand                      Telecom           90.00       -
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                  Irrigation       17.50        -      10.74
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Urban Trans.    16.00          -      10.89
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand           Railways          16.70        -        8.09
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power             80.00       -       33.68
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Education             -   35.00       23.54
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Agriculture           -   25.00       18.40
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Ag. Extension   40.00          -      25.74
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power             80.00       -       13.58
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of              Natural Gas
Thailand                           Pipeline       107.00/b      -      10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                 Irrigation        80.00        -      66.35
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                 Ag. Credit        19.00        -        3.88
1852   1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand            Power             72.00       -       28.54
1863   1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                        Water Supply    40.00          -      38.06



- 27 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose         Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing           29.00         -        24.21
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity          Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification    75.00          -        67.48
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways 53.00          -        47.92
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports             47.00         -        45.96
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research      30.00         -        29.77
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.          Engineering      8.90         -         4.81
of Thailand                  Industry          30.00        -         4.04
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power            100.00         -       98.50
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation        57.00         -        55.28
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Provincial Roads 35.00          -        24.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand             Tree crops       142.00         -       122.82
2143     1982   Telephone Organization          Telecommuni-
of Thailand /c                 cations        142.10         -      142.10
2178     1982   Kingdom of Thailand             Education         75.00         -        73.79
2184     1982   Petroleum Authority of          Liquified Petro-
Thailand                       leum Gas        90.00         -       88.67
2198     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c          Agriculture       17.00         -        17.00
Total                                                      2,878.33   124.84    1,270.92
of which has been repaid                                   319.89     2.85
Total now outstanding                                      2,560,79   121.99
Amount sold /d                       68.63
of which has been repaid           53.86                    14.77
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             2,546.02   121.99
Total undisbursed                                          1,221.46    49.46
/a Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/b  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
/c Not yet effective.
/d Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-28-                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30       -       0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -      2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
1983   Sea Minerals Limited    Mining                          -    0.33       0.33
Total gross commitments                            100.98    9.94    110.92
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          69.50    2.71       72.21
Net held by the Corporation                         31.48    7.23      38.71
Total undisbursed                                   15.80    0.13      15.93



ANNEX II
- 29 -                  Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date:  October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in onfarm works, and the Government is
expected to request an extension of the closing date. ilowever, development
of the onfarm systems is now proceeding well, and the diversion dam and
90% of the main canals and laterals are now complete. All studies financed
under the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation works and onr-farm works for 62,000 ha and rehab-
ilitation works for 138,000 ha have been completed in accordance with the
appraisal schedule. The Mae Klong component for construction of service
roads and a sugarcane pilot project are behind schedule however, and the
Government is expected to request an extension of the Closing Date,
initially to June 30, 1984.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



ANNEX II
-30-                     Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million Loan of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now complete. Construction of main and secondary canals is
progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind schedule. Two
new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project area, and work
on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in the appointment of consultants and slow processing of civil works
contracts and tender documents. Canal rehabilitation work by force account
is progressing satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to
delays in design work. Implementation is expected to improve following
reallocation of design work between RID and the consultant.
Loan No. 2022 Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and about 30 km of main and lateral canals
have been rehabilitated and/or constructed. A contract for construction of
about 60 km of main and lateral canals was awarded in August 1982. A Plan
of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation Department was prepared by
the Department in September 1982.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is scheduled for completion in September 1983. Conr-
struction of almost 1,240 km of village access roads is complete and is
nearing completion on the remaining 30 km.  The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has constructed 3,500 freshwater wells and the remaining 500 will be drilled
by September 1983. The other components (extension, upland crops research,
village electrification, and the pilot program for settlement areas) have
been satisfactorily completed.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                  Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan is fully disbursed. The Project Completion Report is
being prepared.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project has been successful in achieving the level and type
of organization required to implement a "T and V" system, but the substance
is very variable, due to difficulties in decentralization and to problems
in instituting a uniform system of supervision, guidance and training at
regional and provincial levels. Until recently, linkages with research
have been weak. Effort is being concentrated on training, especially of
subject matter specialists, and on improving the information and reporting
system in the closing months of the project.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and disburse-
ments are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject matter specialist training
is being given priority attention. Linkages with research are being
strengthened in order to improve the relevance of the information being
disseminated to farmers through the "T and V  system.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of April 30,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) ongoing term
lending component under the project is fully disbursed. The most critical
factor affecting the financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels
for agriculture. Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative
Promotion Department and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their
training activities and in the construction of regional and provincial staff
housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
Counterpart budget deficiencies, delays in introducing a
reorganization plan and generally weak management contributed to very slow
progress during the first 18 months of project implementation. The



ANNEX I L
-32-                     Page 7 of 13
appointment of a dynamic and experienced Director-General in October 1982
has recently had a very favorable impact. Reorganization is now complete
and detailed site development plans have been drawn up for the first nine
research centers. A civil works design and construction consultant is being
selected. A technical assistance team, cofinanced by Australia, is
providing substantial advisory support, and the fellowship program is off to
a good start.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 Million Loan of January 29,
1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Physical progress under the project is good. In 1982, the Office
of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (ORRAF) replanted 56,000 ha of rubber,
exceeding the target of 50,000 ha p.a. by 12%. The main problem facing the
project is financial. ORRAF has a shortage of financial resources due to a
decline in cess revenues resulting from low world rubber prices, and Govern-
ment budgetary constraints. The Bank agreed to increase the disbursement
percentages of certain categories of the loan for expenditures incurred from
February 1982 to April 1983, but further increases may be required for the
remaining years of the project.
Loan No. 2198 Land Reform Areas Project; $17 Million Loan of September 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is practically completed, with a cost underrun of
about US$4.96 million (16%). At Government's request, $3.5 million in
unallocated category was cancelled, effective from October 7, 1982. Although
part of the balance of $1.46 million would be used to finance a proposed
study on agricultural education, to be carried out by the National Education
Commission (NEC), the bulk of the balance may remain unutilized by Closing
Date on June 30, 1983. Preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
is under way.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Phase one and
two are completed and the final phase is progressing satisfactorily. There
are no major problems and credit covenants are being fulfilled. There have
been some delays due to site acquisition problems but, with most critical
activities roughly on schedule, the project would be completed by the
current Closing Date of June 30, 1985. Because of the substantially reduced



ANNEX II
- 33 -                  Pagee8 of 13
local inflation, project costs are about 5% below appraisal estimates.
Disbursements which now represent 71% of appraisal estimates are expected to
improve with the scheduled procurement of major equipment items. The
multi-component nature of the project has made management and coordination
difficult, but recent administrative actions have minimized this problem and
rendered the CPU more effective.
Loan No. 2178 Sixth (Secondary) Education Project; $75 Million Loan
of July 26, 1982; Effective Date: October 26, 1982;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
The loan has recently been declared effective.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project continues to move ahead smoothly, and disbursements
have improved considerably over the past 18 months. All ten national level
training facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health
facilities, 406 have been completed, one is under construction and 23 had to
be deleted. The construction program has been delayed about 18 months.
Most training, information/education/communication, and populationr-related
research and evaluation activities have been completed on schedule; the
Innovative Village Nutrition Activity shows considerable promise and is
already being widely replicated. Five other Innovative Activities are
getting under way. A request to reallocate $1.7 million is expected soon.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After nearly two years of delays/work stoppage, construction work
has resumed at the Tung Song Hong site since April 1982 and is progressing
well. This was possible after NHA and the Contractor (Union Progress Co.)
agreed to a modified contract. NiHA agreed to change infrastructure
(drainage) standards and allowed new rates to be negotiated. Construction
&         of community facilities through four separate contracts is proceeding on
schedule and slum upgrading works are essentially completed. The closing
date was recently extended by two years.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985
After an extremely slow start the project is now progressing at a
reasonable rate. As of November 1982, 27% of the total project was either
completed or under contract. Civil works schemes, especially comprehensive
route improvements implemented during 1982, are having the desired impact on
traffic operations. The Loan Executive Committee has recently approved a



ANNEX II
- 34 -                   Page 9 of 13
major expansion and enhancement of the traffic signal system and the hiring
of badly needed technical assistance to OCMRT. Policy questions have not
progressed well.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984
After an initial delay of 6-12 months caused by problems in land
acquisition and procurement, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Infrastructure and core housing construction is under way on three of the six
project sites. Land acquisition for the fourth site has been completed and
NdLA has proposed alternatives (where land acquisition has been completed) for
the remaining two sites. Phase I of slum upgrading has been completed and
the technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Progress on the physical components of the project continue to
lag and disbursements remain a problem. But corrective measures are being
employed and this situation should improve over the next six months. The
components concerning organizational reform and training are satisfactory;
PWA is making good progress in the area of institutional development.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The dam is serving
all the multi-purposes as planned. The three units of turbine generators
are operating satisfactorily. Construction of the 115 kV transmission line
and substation components associated with the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 4,134 villages, out of which 3,222
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program has been
implemented.  Disbursements are very close to initial appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about 46% complete, three months behind schedule
because of poor soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field



ANNEX II
- 35 -                  Page 10 of 13
works are now proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected
to catch up with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for
commissioning in July 1983, as scheduled.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date:  September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about 30% complete, one year behind schedule
because of unexpectedly poor rock foundation, but works are now under way
satisfactorily. Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construc-
tion of the resettlement villages is in progress. The transmission system
will be completed in 1983.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 719 villages for the first 18 provinceS;
235 villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 2000 Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Construction of the diversion tunnel has started. The pre-
qualification process for main civil works is almost completed.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works have been completed. The project
has been completed on schedule and below the original cost estimate.
Loan No. 2184 Liquified Petroleum Gas Project; $90 Million Loan of
August 17, 1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Loan has recently been declared effective.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                   Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is being implemented in accordance with the schedule.
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily and no major problems
are expected until the completion of the project.
Loan N4o. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date:  June 18, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. By the end of February 28, 1983,
an amount of $29.6 million has been committed and $25.7 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947 Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of March 4,
1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981: Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The actual progress of the project is four months behind contract
work schedule due to slow progress of excavation of the incline.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction has been completed on nine of the eleven roads and is
almost finished on the tenth. Construction works are, overall, about 93%
complete. However, the Closing Date was extended by twelve months because
of initial delay in awarding the contract for the eleventh road followed by
slow progress by the contractor. But the contractor-s output has improved
and is in accordance with the revised schedule. The maintenance equipment
has been procured and, with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with road maintenance program is improving. The studies have been
completed. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) and for future road projects has
been completed. Costs are closely in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2035 Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Construction is under way on all 23 road sections, about 40%
complete and substantially on schedule. The first phase of the Trucking
Industry Study is underway and technical assistance was provided to the
Ministry of Communications in carrying out the recently completed studies
on Road User Taxation and Energy Policies for the Transport Sector. On the
basis of a completed pre-feasibility study of Inland Water Transport, terms



ANNEX 'I
- 37 -                   Page 12 of lb
of reference are being prepared for feasibility studies of proposed
investments. Studies and engineering are under way for preparation of future
road projects. Costs are expected to be within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and the Closing Date was recently extended to December 31, 1983.
Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability of passenger
and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial position of
SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff increases for
passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because of a
subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and civil works are well under way. Despite delays
during mobilization and the early stages of construction, work is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Consultants have been appointed for design and
construction supervision of the various project components; they are on site
and work is proceeding satisfactorily. Acquisition of land for port sites
is still incomplete and is likely to cause further delay in the completion
of the project.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Government has now made a firm decision to proceed with the
development of a new port at Laem Chabang and is reviewing the effects of
this decision on the present project.  The Government has indicated that it
wishes to proceed with work at the Port of Sattahip under the present
project, as originally contemplated during appraisal, in order to provide
interim facilities to account for overflow from the Port of Klong Toei until
such time as facilities at the new port of Laem Chabang become available.
Consultants for the design of this interim work at the Port of Sattahip are
being selected.  The design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal is
under way and is scheduled for completion by April 1983.  The Government will
decide on the extent and timing of the proposed work at Bang Su in May or
June 1983. Tender documents for procurement of equipment under the project



ANNEX II
- 38 -                  Page 13 of 13
are now being prepared by consultants and the selection of the remaining
technical assistance advisors for the Port Authority of Thailand is
presently being undertaken.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date:  January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, and procurement of all Bank-financed
items is complete. The financial condition of the borrower continues to be
satisfactory.
Loan No. 2143 Fourth Telecommunications Project; $142.1 Million Loan of
December 20, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Effective Date:  May 13, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan was fully disbursed as of July 19, 1982. Implementation
of the structural adjustment program is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 39 -                            ANNEX III
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
r
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the    -  18 months
project
(b)  Agency which prepared the project              -  PEA
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                 -  March, 1982
(d)  Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission  -  June 28, 1982
(e)  Completion of negotiations                     -  April 26, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                  -  September 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
The Government agreed to undertake periodical review of the
adequacy of tariffs to ensure that each of the utilities generates adequate
funds so as to enable the sector to meet the covenanted rate of return and
to carry out their respective development program (para. 45). PEA agreed (a)
to prepare a Plan of Action to improve its operational efficiency in the
event that the grant from the ADAB does not materialize by September 30,
1983 (para. 54); (b) to earn a rate of return consistent with the sector's
requirements (para. 44); (c) to review the adequacy of its tariffs and to
maintain a fuellpower purchase clause in its tariff schedule (para. 45);
and (d) to obtain Bank's approval if its long-term debt would exceed 60% of
its total capitalization and if its short- and medium-term debt would exceed
10% of its total debt (para. 45); and (e) on criteria to select the villages
to be financed under the project (para. 51).



A
I
4



F                --                  -z:    ~       ~ ~                                3Q43     -------------3------7       320~~~7  2
4  "                                                             73>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D" ,-I
33  ~~~~~' ~LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEM. REP
40830                                                                                             833,00-30188 81NAN
Ch3                                                                                       '                 *  
rlA433 &P3383I8
738> ~ ~    s-
Ph7PA
-1                 3-48334330                                                                    4< l28.387,
48338       4383 . 7_3~-.~ 
[~~~333  --,                                I      ,~~~~~~~'<~    ~ '4   Tco~~         ~     ~     ~    >8   04
8UHTII  W-1.8og8                                           {   ,33880
I                          33h
O~~~TH                     UDON THA,11~~~~~~~-3203
Ah.,,~ ~ 47334243
-I           -' ~~~~~~~~~~                 '482.33EI,,'YAOI~
fAM PUHCAH E
Andan7a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
b~~~~~~~~~~~2
xOIL& wN                NAKIO~~~~~~~~~ 1-t
(~O ;          g/-of Taiad                   
96~~~~~~~~~~~~~7, ~~ ~        ~         3                          3
DEHOCRATI
-          PROVINCIAl.. ELECTRICITH ATORT
5~~~38                                                                 UA  LCTlIAINPOET
N  3(33488 833.3.333.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
4~~~~~~~~~RGO                     ILAE  8         VL40 O3
EL8831038 38 3311ELEIR338113233
3>                  E3~~~~~~~48G~-   7                                          _______              ___________
THA333               840A32
33304                                                'OtN     AUR 3 EC03              R C ,0Y  AUHOIT
8313.480~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJ,W                     eE 'RA         AT      RQf;
331330433~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGO                                   VILLAGES .  34      0303LAGSTOE
8   ~~~~~~kt%1 ~~~~~~~~~~                    Jw-8             734.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUF    .22,2             Is34
VILLAGE5333E 0.LE8T81F ED8 3
~4
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O112,2
w  38o .3813 0333333 3'3333334'0338333333483733303.3.3(3,33384333333888383348~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1
81  33382433233333'333.38333333.333.3 32' 88>3333(83333883(3,83.Y  12
~~~ 3.2 ~~~~~~~3.3.33384238333 33,4433333333332333.383.83334833433333333333333 33' 03338  C  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



