Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7338-BR 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Housing Sector Technical Assistance Loan) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 21, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7338-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 2006, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated May 6, 2005, from the 
Borrower describing a program to 
support policy 
reforms in the Borrower’s housing sector, 
particularly regarding low income housing, aimed at increasing housing affordability and 
improving urban development (the Program),
 and declaring the Borrowe
r’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read 
as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or 
on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subje
ct to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in 
respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 (a) 
“Eligible Category” means category (1) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“FMR” means each report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) “GTI-SFH” 
means 
Grupo de Trabalho Interministerial de 
acompanhamento das Políticas de Financiamento e Subs
í
dios à Habitação
,
the 
Borrower’s inter-ministerial housing policy group, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Portaria  Interministerial 
Nº 404 dated September 6, 2005 and published in the 
Diário 
Oficial da União 
N
º
175 on September 12, 2005 to provide guidance to, and collaborate 
with, the Ministry of Cities on matters related to housing policy, including, 
inter alia
,
those matters related to the implementation of the Project as described in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Ministry of Cities” means 
Ministério das Cidades
,
the Borrower’s 
ministry of cities; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“Ministry of Finance” means 
Ministério da Fazenda
,
the Borrower’s 
ministry of finance. 
(g) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators to be used in monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Project as set forth in the attachment to the 
Supplemental Letter No. 1. 
(h) 
“National Housing Secretariat” means S
ecretaria Nacional de 
Habitação
,
the national housing sec
retariat within the Borrower’s Ministry of Cities; 
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 27, 2005, covering the entire period of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k) “SBPE” 
means 
Sistema Brasileiro de Po
upança e Empréstimo
,
the 
Borrower’s savings and loans system; 
(l) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(m) 
“Supplemental Letter Nº 1” means the letter of even date herewith from 
the Borrower to the Bank containing the Monitoring Indicators. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four million 
Dollars ($4,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
Page  5
-
4
-
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
well as in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, after having received a request from the Borrower, through its 
Ministry of Finance, to extend the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Section 2.11. The Minister of Cities (
Ministro de Estado das Cidades
)
and any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through the 
Ministry of Cities, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and housing practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Proc
urement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through the National Housing Secretariat, shall 
prepare in collaboration with GTI-SFH, every six months during the execution of the 
Project, a plan for the implementation of the Project during the succeeding six-month 
period, which shall be approved by the Bank. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain in the Ministry of Cities, during the 
execution of the Project, an organizational structure for purposes of coordinating and 
managing the carrying out of the Project, and having responsibility for all disbursement, 
procurement and financial management activities under the Project, with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and qualified staff in adequate numbers as 
required to carry out its responsibilities under the Project. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall through the Ministry of Cities: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, on the 24th month after the Effective Date or 
when disbursements from the Loan Account have reached an amount equal to 50% of the 
Loan amount, whichever occurs first, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Project during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said review. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall through the Ministry of Cities: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of
 
statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall through the Ministry of Cities: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
Page  9
-
8
-
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section.
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall through the Ministry of Cities prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to 
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered with the 
Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.02. The date December 20, 2006, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3225-4022 
Page  11
-
10 -
Ministério das Cidades 
 
Secretaria Nacional de Habitação 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco A, 3º andar 
 
70.050-901 Brasília, D.F. 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3321-1709 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ 
Sônia de Almendra Freitas Portella Nunes 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, consultants’ 
 
services and training 
3,990,000 
100% 
 
(2) Front-end fee 
10,000 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(3)  Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
under Section 
 
Rate Collars 
2.09 (c) of 
 this 
Agreement 
 ________ 
TOTAL 4,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" includes reasonable costs 
of travel and 
per diems
 of trainees, training materials, and other training related 
expenditures other than consultants’ services. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $798,000, may be made 
in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph A of Schedule 1 above on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 28, 2005. 
Page  14
-
13 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) consulting firms’ services costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) individual consultants’ services; and (d) 
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the 
Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall 
submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account 
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
 if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
Page  15
-
14 -
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from 
the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount. 
Page  16
-
15 -
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means 
the amount of $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Category. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Page  18
-
17 -
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the Eligible Category.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  20
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Institutional and Legal Framework for Housing Policy
Support to the Borrower’s Ministry of Cities, through the provision of technical 
assistance for its internal reorganization, including the consolidation of the National 
Housing Secretariat as the key technical and policy entity for coordinating housing policy 
design across the many public sector actors. Technical assistance will also be provided 
for the implementation of 
Fundo Nacional de Habitação de Interesse Social
 (FNHIS), 
the Borrower’s national fund for housing of a social interest nature, and for a program of 
capacity building and training at the municipal and state levels to strengthen the ability of 
local governments to recover housing costs and manage the basic fiduciary and technical 
aspects of urban development. 
 
Part B
:
Housing Finance Market Development
Support for the improvement of the Borrower’s legal and regulatory framework 
for housing loans, including incremental reforms to the existing housing finance system, 
the future integration of SBPE in the full market system, and overall strengthening of the 
market-based 
Sistema Financeiro Imobiliário
 (SFI)
,
the Borrower’s real estate finance 
system. Specifically, technical assistance will be provided: (a) to disseminate information 
about the importance of a credible regulatory and legal framework for housing finance to 
a
broad audience which will include members of the Borrower’s judiciary and congress; 
(b) to carry out a strategic study of the medium-term future of 
Fundo de Garantia do 
Tempo
 de Serviço
 (FGTS), the fund created to provide severance payments to workers on 
account of their time of service; (c) for the development of new legal and financial 
instruments to promote greater primary and secondary housing finance market 
development; (d) for the transition and future integration of SBPE in the full market 
system; and (e) for the drafting of housing-specific consumer protection legislation, 
including a short study tour to countries where such legislation is in force. 
 
Page  21
-
20 -
Part C
:
Housing Subsidies for the Poor
Provision of technical assistance: (a) for subsidy harmonization and 
regularization across the various housing subsidy programs of the Borrower; (b) 
for the establishment of a tiered system of monitoring and evaluation, including 
regular monitoring of housing subsidy programs as regards targeting, impact, unit 
costs, the performance and compliance of financial intermediaries, and to address 
both real-time needs and medium-term living standards impact; (c) to local 
communities and local governments for structuring and packaging requests to 
Programa de Habitação de Interesse Social
,
the 
Borrower’s housing program of a 
social nature; (d) for the carrying out of a series of outreach and dissemination 
activities as regards the Borrower’s housing subsidy programs to improve 
understanding of such programs at the local level; and (e) to improve the targeting 
of housing subsidies, including studies and analyses for the establishment of a 
system for poverty categorization of beneficiaries that is more reliable than the 
current system of self-declaration. 
 
Part D
:
Land and Urban Development
Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the carrying out of the programs of the 
Ministry of Cities to strengthen local governments in their efforts to achieve accreditation 
of their institutional capacity to take the lead in local urban development policy setting 
and implementation (
gestão própria
); and (b) the development of a national urban 
upgrading program, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) research, monitoring, and evaluation 
activities
,
at the Borrower’s federal level, of policy and regulatory efforts for urban 
development and land subdivision; and (ii) a series of activities to facilitate the 
implementation of the policy innovations under the Program for progressive housing 
development, the preparation of local master plans (
planos diretores
), and demand-side 
organization for housing subsidy programs. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009. 
Page  22
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning January 15, 2011 
 
through January 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
on July 15, 2022 
4.09% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  23
-
22 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  24
-
23 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consul
tants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than
Consultants’ Services)
A. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions, using bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a 
standardized form for the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always 
be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
Page  25
-
24 -
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
B. Shopping 
or 
Pregão Eletrônico
.
Goods and services (other than 
consultants’ services) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of either: (a) Shopping 
procedures, and a standard request for quotations acceptable to the Bank; or (b) 
the procedures known as “
pregão eletrônico
,”
set forth in the Borrower’s Law 
No. 10.520 of July 17, 2002. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments costing $100,000 
equivalent or less per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  26
-
25 -
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following con
tracts shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review: (a) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Bank.
 
