Documnict of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16652
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2545-GUA)
June 6, 1997
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 15, 1996)
Currency Unit = Dollar (G$)
G$ 1.00 = US$0.008
US$1.00 = G$ 125.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Long Ton  2,240 lbs.
Metric Ton = 2,204 lbs.
(The Guyanese sugar industry accounts for its production in long tons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BT              -      Booker Tate
CAS             -      Country Assistance Strategy
EU              -      European Union
GOG             -      Government of Guyana
GUYSUCO         -      Guyana Sugar Company
IDA             -      International Development Association
IMF             -      International Monetary Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:           Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                 Paul Isenman
Acting Division Chief     Jonathan Parker
Task Team Manager:        John Heath



Table of Contents                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page
Preface .........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   .                                                      ...........................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..........................................................                   4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................5
E. IDA PERFORMANCE ..........................................................6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .........................................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .........................................................7
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .........................................................8
I. KEY LESSONS  LEARNED ..........................................................8
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES .................................................9
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments ........................................................                           10
Table 2: Related IDA Loans/Credits ........................................................                        12
Table 3: Project Timetable .1............................3 13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual .................................. 14
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation                       ........................................................ 15
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation ........................................................             16
Table 7: Studies Included In Project .............................................................................................. 17
Table 8a: Project Costs ...............................                                                             18
Table 8b: Project Financing ...............................                                                         19
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits ...............................                                               20
Table 10: Status Of Legal Covenants ...............................                                                21
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements .25
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions .27
ANNEXES
ANNEX A - ICR Mission Aide Memoire.29
ANNEX B - Final Letter to Government .39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2545-GUA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for. the Sugar Industry
Restructuring and Privatization Project in Guyana, for which Credit 2545-GUA in the
amount of SDR 10.9 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) was approved on September
29, 1993 and made effective on December 29, 1993.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, and the grace period granted for the
submission of final application ended on April 30, 1997. The undisbursed balance, to be
determined after the Bank receives a full accounting of the Special Account advance, will
be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by John R. Heath, Natural Resources Management and
Rural Poverty Division of the Latin America and Caribbean Region and reviewed by
Jonathan Parker (Acting Division Chief, LA3NR) and Robert Crown (Projects Advisor,
LA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion
mission, November 11-15, 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing inputs to the Aide Memoire drafted by
IDA's completion mission, and has also prepared its own assessment of the project's
performance. The Government did not provide a Completion Report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
SIUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(Credit Number 2545-GUA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In 1990, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Guyana emphasized the need
for reducing severe fiscal and external imbalances and encouraging private sector
development. At that time the Guyana Sugar Company (GUYSUCO) accounted for
40 percent of net foreign exchange earnings and 12 percent of fiscal revenues. It was
believed, therefore, that strengthening the industry would facilitate the attainment of CAS
objectives.
Project Objectives
2.    The project sought to maintain sugar production at its present level, with the
unstated goal of restoring Guyana's ability to fill its export quota with the European
Union. It also sought to ensure the technical and financial viability of the industry through
restructuring and privatization of Guysuco. The project's components consisted of
(a) a two-year capital investment program and (b) technical assistance to prepare
GUYSUCO for privatization.
3.    The project's objectives were relevant and realistic at the phase of identification;
but substantially less so by the time the project was presented to the Board. When the
project was identified in 1990 the GOG was strongly in favor of privatizing GUYSUCO
and a prospective buyer had been identified. However, in October 1992, there was a
change of administration. By board presentation (September 1993), sugar output had
recovered to its former level and GUYSUCO's financial position had improved to a point
where it could finance the replacement of essential equipment without project funds.
Nevertheless, both the GOG and the Bank believed this opportunity should be taken to
privatize GUYSUCO. Later, as time wore on, the new government's enthusiasm for
privatization waned.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The objective of stabilizing the sugar industry's revenues was attained; but this
outcome would have been achieved anyway--even without an IDA project. Privatization
of GUYSUCO was indefinitely deferred. GUYSUCO's revenues increased from 1993 to
1996 owing to a 28 percent rise in sales and an increase in government's rebate of the
Sugar Levy from 58 percent to 84 percent. The overall improvement in cash flow after



- ii -
higher operating costs (particularly wages) was used to finance equipment replacement
(see table in paragraph 8 of main report) originally assigned to the IDA credit.
5.    GUYSUCO's financial position will only be sustained: (a) if the industry remains
under private management (as opposed to private ownership); (b) if government supports
GUYSUCO's proposals for rationalization (closing factories and reducing acreage); and
(c) if an appropriate regulatory framework is drawn up, allowing for transparent rules
about the distribution of the rents from access to quota markets, and establishing
performance benchmarks by which the industry's progress toward greater competitiveness
may be monitored.
6.    GUYSUCO's own funds were used to finance rehabilitation: none of the
US$14.0 million that the Association lent for equipment replacement was disbursed. The
technical assistance component of US$1.0 million was only partially disbursed. This
component funded two background studies intended to prepare the industry for
privatization: (a) an environmental audit of GUYSUCO (cost: US$100,000), that was
delivered in June 1996, two years behind schedule; (b) a valuation of GUYSUCO (cost:
US$475,000) that was delivered in September 1996, also two years behind schedule.
Given the lack of government commitment to privatization, the final steps in the project--
request for bids and evaluation of potential investment proposals--were never carried out.
7.    A number of factors external to the project increased GUYSUCO's revenue.
These included: favorable exchange rate movements; an increase in the EU quota
allocation; higher prices, both on world and quota markets; and good weather. Various
factors--which government was responsible for--hindered project implementation. First,
there was no effective interlocutor for the project: the Privatization Unit was set up late
and exercised little initiative, all key decisions being referred to the Finance Minister.
Second, drafting of a regulatory framework for the sugar industry was postponed. Third,
there were major delays in recruiting consultants for the privatization studies. Fourth, the
privatization objective was tacitly abandoned.
8.    IDA's performance was mixed. From identification to appraisal there was an
above average commitment of resources. During this period project objectives became
less relevant; but the project proceeded to the Board on the GOG's assurance that
privatization was itself a priority. Relatively few resources were committed to supervision
because, by that stage, there was a perception that the project's objectives stood little
chance of being attained. Nevertheless, IDA made serious efforts to keep implementation
on track; and, at one point, headed off an attempt by the government to terminate the
private management contract. On the borrower's side, excellent support was received
from GUYSUCO staff, but follow-up by government was weak.
9.    The project outcome was unsatisfactory owing to the lack of progress with
implementation and the failure to privatize GUYSUCO.



- 111 -
Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The government prefers to pursue restructuring options in lieu of privatization of
GUYSUCO in the near future. Also, it has not yet endorsed GUYSUCO's proposals for
rationalization of the sugar industry. Establishment of a suitable regulatory framework is
one of the conditions attached to an IMF adjustment loan: the Association will finance
this work under its ongoing Financial Sector and Business Environment Project (Credit
No. 2669) and supervise the consultants hired to draft regulatory proposals.
11.   There are four key lessons:
(a)   use of IDA money to fund privatization schemes are not justified when
such projects can be commercially financed and a prospective buyer has
been identified;
(b)   IDA efforts to support privatization should more appropriately be part of
an Adjustment/Policy Reform Operation with TA instead of an investment
project.
(c)   bringing publicly-owned enterprises under private management may lead to
large efficiency gains--particularly if the regulatory regime is adequate and
the management contract is performance based; but if ownership is not
privatized, the management may not have the freedom to make politically
unpopular choices or to carry out the rationalization that may be needed
for long-term survival; and
(d)   a privatization strategy needs to be properly sequenced: starting with
enterprises that are not politically sensitive; and launching the effort at the
beginning, not the end, of an administration.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(Credit Number 2545-GUA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    When the project was identified in late 1990, Guyana had failed to meet its sugar
export quota for three consecutive years and there was a concern that the European Union
might reduce the volume of Guyana's sugar favored with preferential market access. Also,
given that the industry was by far the largest net earner of foreign exchange (40 percent of
total) and fiscal revenues (12 percent of total), it was feared that further decline would
hamper the nation's ability to service its very substantial public external debt.
2.    The main objective of the project was to maintain sugar production at present
levels, and ensure the long-term technical and financial viability of the sugar industry. To
achieve this objective, the project sought, first, to restructure GUYSUCO: this involved
replacing or rehabilitating equipment and machinery in urgent need of repair. This
restructuring was regarded as preparatory to a second phase, entailing the privatization of
GUYSUCO. Parallel to restructuring, steps would be taken to introduce a regulatory
framework that would enhance the industry's competitiveness while guaranteeing an
adequate level of government revenue.
3.    The project had two components:
(a)   A two-year capital investment program sought to stabilize GUYSUCO
output at the 1992 level of 240,000 tons by financing maintenance and
replacement of worn-out capital equipment at GUYSUCO's eight mills.
This accounted for 93 percent of project funds.
(b)   A technical assistance component, involving contracts for financial
consulting firms to help government restructure and privatize GUYSUCO,
while allowing workers to participate in the ownership of the company.
These consultants would also help establish a policy and regulatory
framework for the industry, with particular reference to fixing the level of
the sugar export levy, eliminating foreign exchange retention, retaining a
corporation tax of 35 percent, and eliminating GUYSUCO's monopoly of
sugar imports.



-2 -
4.    The project's objectives were fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
which emphasized the need for stabilizing fiscal and external balances and encouraging
private sector development. The project's objectives were realistic at the identification
phase but had become substantially less so by Board presentation. At identification,
government was seriously interested in privatizing GUYSUCO and there was a would-be
buyer in the shape of Booker Tate, which had privately managed the company since 1990.
The project was scaled down from a US$216 million buy-out (to be jointly financed by
government, Booker, CDB, IDA, and IFC) to a US$15 million dollar operation whose
purpose was basic rehabilitation, deemed essential to "ready" the industry for
privatization. There was a change of government in October 1992. By board presentation
(September 1993), GUYSUCO's financial position had improved to a point where it could
finance the replacement of essential equipment without project funds. Nevertheless, both
the GOG and the Bank believed this opportunity should be taken to privatize GUYSUCO.
However, GOG's enthusiasm for privatization substantially diminished thereafter.
5.    Based on its final objectives, this project could have pursued privatization of
GUYSUCO more appropriately through a Structural Adjustment/Policy Reform
Operation with TA, instead of an investment project. The two components were not
mutually indispensable. Rehabilitation need not be a prerequisite for privatization. The
cost of rehabilitation could have been factored into the bid price offered by interested
private investors. Thus, it is doubtful that lending to finance costs that could have been
borne by the private sector was a good use of IDA resources. When the project was
identified (end of 1990), it was argued that rehabilitation was needed immediately in order
to bring output back to a level (c. 240,000 tons) where the EU quota commitment could
be met; it could not wait for divestiture to be completed. However, by the time of Board
presentation (September 1993), sugar output had recovered to 243,000 tons: therefore,
well before loan approval, there was no longer any risk that the EU would scale back the
Guyana quota owing to non-compliance. The project's objective was then changed to
"maintaining Guysuco's present level of production" and ensuring its sustainability
through privatization.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Macroeconomic and sectoral objectives. Sugar generates about 40 percent of
total foreign exchange and 12 percent of fiscal revenues. Sugar sales increased from
US$127 million in 1993 to an estimated level of US$162 million in 1996. In spite of this
increase, the subsector's fiscal contribution declined somewhat: although the sugar levy
remained at 54 percent of total sales, the government rebated an increasingly large
proportion of this levy (rising from 58 percent in 1993 to 84 percent in 1996), in order to
help GUYSUCO finance its growing operating and capital costs.
7.    Physical objectives. The project provided for the "normal replacement" of
vehicles, machinery, equipment and field infrastructure machinery at GUYSUCO's eight
estates and mills: the aim was not to finance expansion or modernization of the factories.
In 1994-96, capital expenditures (field plus factory) actually exceeded the level projected
in the Staff Appraisal Report (see table below). Owing to favorable trends in the market



and policy environment, which boosted GUYSUCO's revenues, the industry was able to
finance capital expenditures entirely from its own resources, with no recourse to project
funds:
Projected (US$ million)        Actual (US$ million)
1994-96                      1994-96
Expenditure items                                         L
Field                                     13.7                         19.6
Factory                                  20.7                          18.3
Administration                            5.1                          10.1
Total                                    39.5                          48.0
Sources of finance
GUYSUCO                                  20.6                          48.0
IDA                                      14.0
Other sources/I                           4.9
Total                                    39.5                          48.0
/1 Caribbean Development Bank, suppliers
8.     Financial objectives. Without project assistance, GUYSUCO's financial
performance in 1993-96 actually exceeded the "best case" projections made at appraisal
("best case" entailed modernization of the industry, including reduction in the number of
factories from eight to five--a goal that has yet to be achieved):
1993             1994           1995           1996e
Sugar production ('000 t)                                  .
Projected/i                    240              240             250            250
Actual                         243              253             250            276
Net cash flow (US$m)
Projected/l                    4.2              10.6            22.5           24.2
Actual                         29.2             34.6            31.1          29.4
Current ratio/2                  _
Proiected/i                    0.4               0.1            0.8            1.1
Actual                          1.2              1.3            1.3            1.0
Debt ratio/3
Projected/1                    54%              70%             57%            50%
Actual                         48%              43%             39%           30%
1/ "With project and modernization" scenario.
2/ Current assets/current liabilities.
3/ Total debt/total assets.
9.     To what extent does the improvement in financial performance reflect higher
productivity? Sugar production rose from 160,000 tons in 1991 to an estimated 276,000
tons in 1996 (compared to 250,000 tons projected at Appraisal). The productivity of
lands in the sugar estates rose; sugar production per acre increasing from 1.7 tons in 1991
to 2.4 in 1996. The factory yield ratio (a measure of the tons of cane needed to produce
one cane of sugar) also improved, moving from 14.4 in 1991 to 11.5 in 1996. On the
other hand between 1993 and 1996, GUYSUCO's operating costs rose by one-third
(mainly attributable to wage rises for field and factory hands), while capital costs



-4 -
(attributable to equipment replacement) rose by one-half Therefore, net cash flow was
the same in 1996 as in 1993.
10.   Institutional development. Given the failure to privatize GUYSUCO, private
sector development goals were not met. This is a missed opportunity because there is no
guarantee that state-owned enterprises will, over the long-run, remain subject to the
market discipline incumbent on private companies.
11.   Economic Rate of Return. At appraisal, no attempt was made to calculate an
ERR because the project was not intended to raise sugar output in the short-term but to
stabilize the industry preparatory to privatization.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
12.   A number of factors led to a recovery in the fortunes of GUYSUCO after 1990.
First, favorable movements in the exchange rate increased the revenue, in local currency
terms, from sugar exports. Second, quota sales to the European Union rose from 167,000
tons in 1993 to 218,000 tons in 1996, partly owing to a new agreement with Portugal.
Third, price trends were favorable--both for the world market and for the quota markets.
In 1996, the price under the European Union protocol was US$653/t compared to the
US$527/t forecast at appraisal. Fourth, the weather was propitious. Finally, the improved
performance of the industry was enhanced by the sound management that Booker Tate
provided.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
13.   For reasons explained in the next paragraph, no distinction is drawn between
factors "subject to Government control" and those factors "subject to control by the
implementing agency".
14.  Implementation was impeded by the absence of a clearly defined interlocutor for
the project. In principle, the implementing agency was the Privatization Unit. Although
this Unit was established by the agreed deadline (December 1993) it did not become fully
operational until early 1995. The Unit never assumed an active role in project
management, key decisions remaining in the hands of the Finance Ministry. There were
changes in the personnel of the Privatization Unit, the loss of continuity contributing to the
weakness of project implementation. The Finance Minister who had vigorously supported
GUYSUCO's privatization during the phase of project preparation was replaced with the
change of government, leaving this objective without a strong advocate. In the event, it
proved possible to boost sugar revenues without privatization, and this further weakened
government commitment to the project.
15.   Agreement on a regulatory framework for the sugar industry should have been
achieved early on (by July 31, 1994). However, the framework had still not been agreed



-5 -
on when the project closed, requiring a follow-up study to be financed under the auspices
of the Financial Sector and Business Environment (FSBEC) Project (Credit No. 2669).
Policy reform took place in only one of the eight areas on the regulatory agenda: foreign
exchange retention. Major steps were taken to liberalize the foreign exchange rate regime.
When the project closed GUYSUCO was allowed to retain 100 percent of its foreign
exchange earnings. Among the outstanding issues on the regulatory agenda, the following
are the most problematic: (a) more transparent rules for determining the level of transfer
from industry to the government; (b) ownership rights of the land in sugar estates;
(c) labor relations; and (d) sugar importation policy and local sugar prices.
16.   Preparation of the background studies for privatization was substantially delayed.
The consulting firm should have been hired by December 31, 1993; they were not
contracted until February 1995. The report was not finalized until September 1996, two
years behind schedule. Overall, this study was deemed to be satisfactory by IDA.
However, the valuation of GUYSUCO was incomplete owing to data constraints that the
consultants cannot be held responsible for. Although it was possible to establish a value
for GUYSUCO in its present shape and form, it proved impossible to estimate the value
that the company would generate if its assets were either broken up or put to an
alternative use--partly because, given the incompleteness of the land market, it was
impossible to place a value on the estate's leased by the government to GUYSUCO.
17.   An environmental assessment was commissioned so that private investors would
have the data needed to cost the various mitigatory measures required by the project. The
most pressing environmental problems identified were: poor effluent treatment, owing to
broken down equipment and the absence of suitable treatment norms; and excessive use
of fuel oil, owing to the lack of bagasse. Owing to delays in recruiting consultants, the
final version of the report was not delivered until June 1996, two years behind schedule.
18.   Given the lack of government commitment to privatization, the final steps in the
project--request for bids and evaluation of potential investment proposals--were never
carried out.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.  In view of the limited progress with implementation, it makes little sense to talk
about project sustainability. The larger issue is the survival of the sugar industry in
Guyana. The only sure way to achieve this is to increase competitiveness. GUYSUCO
currently aims to reduce production costs from the present level of US$0. 19/lb. to
US$0.13-0.15Ab.--which would be competitive in terms of current world prices. There is
a strong possibility that the premium that the European Union pays Lome countries will be
progressively reduced when the present agreement expires in 2002. This will increase the
pressure on Guyana to be competitive at world market prices.
20.   For the sugar industry to be more competitive, two conditions must be met. First,
measures to rationalize the industry must be undertaken, in line with proposals that
GUYSUCO has made to government: these include reducing the number of factories



from eight to six and cutting the area harvested on the sugar estates by 17 percent. This
will inevitably entail some shedding of labor. Second, the quality of GUYSUCO's
managerial and technical staff must be maintained. These conditions will be met only if the
government ensures: (a) that GUYSUCO remains under private management, giving it
the support to take the necessary steps towards rationalization, steps which may be
politically sensitive; and (b) that the policy and regulatory environment allows the industry
to balance the needs of the Government for revenue and generate sufficient returns to
cover GUYSUCO investment needs.
21.   Booker Tate has a one-year, rolling contract that arguably fails to provide the right
incentives. It is impossible for management to execute an effective business plan when the
time horizon is so short. The contract provides inadequate benchmarks for the
government to evaluate progress toward increasing the industry's efficiency. These
considerations become all the more critical if the industry is not privatized, because, as
long as the industry remains in public ownership, market discipline cannot be relied upon
to ensure that efficiency goals are met.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
22.   Identification. The project made sense at the time it was identified (late 1990)
because there was a genuine concern that Guyana's failure to fill its sugar quota would
result in a loss of preferential access to the European market. Also, there was substantial
government support for privatization. However, given that Booker Tate had already
expressed an interest in buying GUYSUCO it is not clear why it was necessary to use IDA
money to "prepare" the industry for privatization.
23.   Preparation and Appraisal. The high level of IDA (and government)
commitment to the project was reflected in an above average use of IDA resources:
112 staff weeks, or US$270,000. However both preparation assistance and IDA's
appraisal were rated deficient, because there was no attempt to reframe objectives in the
light of the altered price and production environment, or to change the project design from
investment to policy reform and TA.
24.   Supervision. In the period from Approval until Completion the supervision input
was only 45 staff weeks (US$60,000): substantially lower than IDA norms. IDA staff
perceived that the government was no longer strongly committed to privatize GUYSUCO
and a lower priority was given to the supervision activities which were still rated as
satisfactory. There was also a loss of continuity because, from preparation to completion,
the project had no fewer than five task managers. However, IDA did intervene decisively
to stop the government from using project funds to finance equipment replacement at
GUYSUCO, making it clear that such investments would not be eligible for disbursement
until progress was made with the privatization study.
25.   Notwithstanding the shortfall in supervision time, IDA made serious efforts to
keep project implementation on track. These efforts included: (a) frequent
communication with government and with GUYSUCO management, through formal and



- 7 -
informal channels; (b) extensive negotiation with, and supervision of, the consultants hired
to carry out the privatization and environmental studies; (c) substantial assistance to
GUYSUCO staff in devising an investment plan for factory rehabilitation and in preparing
related bid documents; (d) advice to government on the auditing of project and
GUYSUCO accounts; and (e) in-depth assistance to government on privatization
strategies and the regulatory framework for the industry.
26.   IDA made every effort to ensure that GUYSUCO remained under a private
management contract, as this was also a government obligation in its IMF Program.
However, because it proved possible to stabilize the industry under state-ownership--and
without recourse to project funds--IDA had little leverage when it came to pressing the
case for privatization. This objective could have been pursued under the FSBEC Project,
which became effective in April 1995, in which case this credit could have been canceled.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   GUYSUCO's performance was very sound; but the government's record has been
deficient in implementation and covenant compliance. Although the revival of the sugar
industry's fortunes owes much to an improvement in the price and exchange rate
environment, it is undeniable that GUYSUCO's management--with strong leadership by
Booker Tate--played a critical role in ensuring that the industry reaped maximum benefit
from the improved environment. The management has stabilized the industry and has laid
the foundations for continuing growth, but costs must be lowered further (para 19). It has
also made a major contribution to improving labor relations and upgrading health, safety
and environmental conditions. GUYSUCO staff were very responsive to IDA,
cooperating fully with the procurement, financial management and reporting requirements
of the Project.
28.   Follow up by Borrower has not been as effective as it might have been, and its
implementation and covenant compliance are rated deficient. For example, once it became
clear that privatization would not be achieved during the span of the Project, IDA
proposed a revised action plan (April 1995); but the government failed to respond. There
were numerous instances when official IDA correspondence went unanswered. During
IDA missions to Guyana--or visits by the government to Washington--it was often difficult
for IDA to arrange meetings with key officials. The government made little contribution
to the preparation of consultant terms of reference and the feedback it provided on
consultant reports was limited.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   At its closing date the project's overall rating was Unsatisfactory owing to the lack
of progress with implementation and the failure to privatize GUYSUCO.



-8-
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   The government has no plans to privatize GUYSUCO in the foreseeable future.
However, its broader privatization program is still proceeding, so the issue may be
retabled at a later date. The long-term viability of GUYSUCO is contingent on
rationalization, including mill closures and reduced sugar acreage. Recommendations to
this effect are made in GUYSUCO's Business Plan for 1995-99. Government has so far
made no commitment to implement GUYSUCO's proposals.
31.   Establishment of a suitable regulatory framework for the sugar industry is one of
the conditions attached to an IMF adjustment loan that is now being implemented.
Consultants will be financed under the ongoing FSBEC Project (Credit No. 2669) to make
proposals for the regulatory framework and their work will be supervised by the
Association. IDA and the IMF have agreed with government that the final content of the
regulations will be decided by July 1997. The consultant assignment will include
specification of the benchmarks to be used for monitoring GUYSUCO's competitiveness
in relation to other world producers.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The key lessons to be learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   the justification for committing scarce IDA resources to privatization
projects needs to be examined closely: particularly when, as in the case
here, such projects could be commercially financed and an investor has
already expressed interest in making a bid;
(b)   IDA efforts to support privatization should more appropriately be part of
an Adjustment/Policy Reform Operation with TA instead of an investment
project.
(c)   bringing publicly-owned enterprises under private management may lead to
large efficiency gains--particularly if the regulatory regime is adequate and
the management contract is performance based; but if ownership is not
privatized, the management may not have the freedom to make politically
unpopular choices or to carry out the rationalization that may be needed
for long-term survival; and
(d)   a privatization strategy needs to be properly sequenced. When
governments launch a privatization drive, they should start with enterprises
that are less politically sensitive and are relatively easy to privatize; these
early "success stories" are critical for building know-how and broader
support for more difficult operations (such as GUYSUCO) where
substantial rents are involved and there are powerful lobbies--both within
government and the labor unions. It is risky to develop (but not
implement) a privatization project at the end of an administration, a careful
assessment of the new government's commitment should be made.



- 9 -
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related IDA Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    IDA Resources: Missions



- 10-
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     E               E                 0                E
Sector Policies                     Q               Q                0                0
Financial Objectives               E3                               I                 EJ
Institutional Development                           0 E3                              EJ
Physical Objectives                               IE                E                 E l
Poverty Reduction                   5               5               E                  0
Gender Issues                      I               i                I                 (A
Other Social Objectives            El              El                O                0
Environmental Objectives            l              0               E                 E
Public Sector Management           1                0               E                 E
Private Sector Development         Ia              E                 0 
Other (specify)                    El              El               El                El
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (/)                       (9')
Highly
C. IDA Performance                     satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(v')                    (9')                      (9')
Identification                     E                         0                        E
Preparation Assistance              O                       E                          0
Appraisal                          E                        E                         0
Supervision                        E                         0                        E



Himhlv
satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                 a
Implementation (GOG)                         D]
Implementation (GUYSUCO)                                    0              0
Covenant Compliance (GOG)                  [               5
Covenant Compliance                         5                              5
(GUYSUCO)
Operation (if applicable)                                  i a:i
Highly                                          Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
5              0                0                El



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Ida Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose            Year of approval          Status
Preceding operations"
Following operations
Financial Sector and      Privatization of
Business Environment    State Enterprises
Project Credit 2669
None in the agriculture sector during the past ten years.



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned "         Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    February 1991    February 15, 1991
Preparation                                 April 1991         April-September 1991
Appraisal                                   February 1992      October 1991
Negotiations                                April/July 1993    April/July 1993
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    n/a            n/a
Board Presentation                          September 1993     September 16, 1993
Signing                                     September 1993     September 29, 1993
Effectiveness                              November 1993       November 30, 1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)       n/a                n/a
Midterm review (if applicable)              n/a                n/a
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if      n/a                n/a
applicable)                                                                           l
Project Completion                          June 30, 1996      June 30, 1996
Loan Closing                                Dec. 31, 1996      Dec. 31, 1996
As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report



- 14 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94      FY95      FY96
Appraisal Estimate             6,000    12,000    15,000
Actual *                            -      751       781
Actual as % of Estimate             -        6          5
Date of Final Disbursement: August 28, 1995
* To be modified (refund from Special Account in process)



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators For Project Implementation'
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/                   Estimated                        Actual
President's Report
II. Modified Indicators (if
applicable)
|II. Other Indicators (if
applicable)
No indicators were specified in SAR or subsequently.



- 16 -
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation'1
1.  Key Operating Indicators               Estimated                       Actual
in SAR/President's Report
" No indicators were specified in SAR or subsequently.



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included In Project
Std                       Purpose as Defined                  Sau                   mato   td
Study        ~at AppraisaURedefined                 Sau                  mato   td
Financial Advisory Services:  To assist the Govenunent in  Complete                 Negligible as far as
Phase I                    restructuring GUYSUCO.                                   Project objective to
Phase I to iinclude: (a)                                privatize GUTYSUCO,
provision of recommendations                            opportune if the
and development of a strategy                           Government carries out
to privatize in full or by                              the privatization of the
breaking GUYSUCO into                                   sugar factories.
several packages; (b) carry out
assets valuation; (c) preparation
of an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan; (d) review and
recommend a regulatory
framework for the sugar
industry.
Financial Advisory Services:  To assist the Govenunent in  Incomplete               Phase II was not executed.
Phase II                   privatizing GUYSUCO. Phase                               Government did not move
II to include: (a) assistance in                        forward with privatization.
implementing the Employee                               Credit proceeds cancelled.
Stock Ownership Plan; (b)
preparation of materials for the
strategy adopted for the
industry; (c) development of
criteria for the assessment of
proposals from private
placement otlerings; (d) prepare
a promotional strategy and
campaign for public offerings;
and (e) assistance during
negotiations with prospective
investors.
Environmental Audit        To examine existing conditions   Completed               Minimum as far as
of factory/estate under                                 identifying environmental
operation to identify                                   liabilities to be financed
enviromnental hazards,                                  by investor(s) under
solutions and related costs.                            privatization; nevertheless
Study to include evaluation of                          opportune in identifying
appropriateuess of the facilities                       key environmental actions
design and occupational                                 to be carried out by
hazards, health and safety                              GUYSUCO, some of
issues, anid relationis between                         which are already being
GUYSUCO, Government and                                 implemented.
the communiity regarding
environmental matters.



Table 8a: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)'l
Item                  Local       Foreign       Total       Local         Foreign
Costs       Costs         °           Costs         Costs          Total
1. Agriculture&FieldInfrastruct.     6.0          7.7        13.7        14.6           4.5           19.1
2. Factory & Related Services Dev.   2.3         18.4         20.7         4.9          13.4          18.2
3. Administration                    3.7          1.4          5.1        7.4           2.7           10.1
4. Financial Advisors                 -           1.0          1.0         -             -
00
TOTAL                   12.0        28.5         40.5        26.9          21.1           48.0
" Financing from Credit largely unutilized



Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                  Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Source             Local         Foreign         T             Local          Foreign
Costs         Costs          Total          Costs          Costs           Total
IDA                                        15.0        15.0                          *
CDB                         -              3.0           3.0
Suppliers                   -              1.9           1.9             -             -
GUYSUCO                    12.0            8.6          20.6            26.9         21.2              48.1
TOTAL               12.0           28.5          40.5            26.9         21.2              48.1
* To be confirmed after refund from Special Account is processed.



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits
(Not Applicable)
For all projects, this table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into
the calculation of a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return) or, where
the net present value (or economic rate of return) was not estimated, of cost-effectiveness
in achieving project objectives.



- 21 -
Table 10: Status Of Legal Covenants
Guyana
Sugar Industry Restructuring and Privatization Project
Agreement  Section  Covenant Presenit  Original    Revised          Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment      covenant
date       date
Credit      2.02(b)   3        CD       n/a        n/a         To open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit
account in Bank of Guyana
in accordance with
Schedule 4 of Agreement.
3.01(b)   10       CD      ii/a       n/a         Government to cause
GUYSUCO to carry out
Part A of project, pursuant
to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
3.02(a)   3        C       n/a        n/a         Government to transfer to
GUYSUCO the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to
Category I under a
subsidiary loan agreement
in terms and conditions
satisfactory to the
Association.
3.02(a)   5        C       10/31/93   n/a         To enter into a
(iii)                                             management services
contract with a firm
acceptable to the
Association and under
terms and conditions
satisfactory to the
Association.
3.02(a)   9        CP      n/a        n/a         During execution of Part A
(ii) (b)                                          to furnish the Association
quarterly progress reports,
including GUYSUCO's
operating results and
financial position.
3.05(a)   5        CD      n/a        n/a         To maintain a Board, with
composition, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory
to the Association.
3.05(b)  5         C       11/30/93  in/a         The Borrower to establish
and maintain a unit with
qualified staff, satisfactory
to the Association, to assist
the Privatization Board in
carrying out its functions.



- 22 -
3.06     9         C        nJa         n/a         With regard to Part A, the
Borrower jointly with
GUYSUCO to submit to
the Association for
review and approval, no
later than Dec. 31 each
year, an annual capital
budget and an annual
operation budget for
GUYSUCO.
3.07      10        C        12/31/93   2/28/95      WithregardtoPartB,the
Borrower shall contract
and retain the consultants
required to assist in
carrying out such Part B,
as provided by Section II
of Schedule 3.
3.07(b)   10       NC       7/31/94    n/a          To complete activities
(i)                                                  with respect of
restructuring and
privatizing process of
GUYSUCO, by no later
than July 31, 1994, of
Parts B.l, B.2(a), B.2(b),
B.2(c) and B.2(d).
3.07(b)   10       NC        10/31/94   n/a         To complete activities
(ii)                                                 with respect of
restructuring and
privatizing process of
GUYSUCO, by no later
than October 31, 1994, of
Parts B.2(e), B.2(f) and
B.2(g).
3.07(b)   10       NC       3/31/95    n/a          To complete activities
(iii)                                                with respect of
restructuring and
privatizing process of
GUYSUCO, by no later
than March 31, 1995, of
Parts B.2(h) and B.2(i).
3.08(a)   10       NC       7/31/94    n/a           Furnish to the
Association for review
and approval a draft
regulatory framework for
the sugar industry.
3.08(b)   10       NC       9/15/94    n/a          To (i) put into effect the
regulatory framework, to
the extent that no
enactment of legislation
is required; and (ii)
submit to Parliament a
legislative proposal
concerning components of
such regulatory
framework that require
enactment.



- 23 -
3.09     10        NC      9/15/94    n/a          Borrower to determine
the capital share of
GUYSUCO with respect
to proposals under Part
B.2 (e), in accordance
with action plans in
Section 3.07(a), as
approved by the
Association.
3.10     10        NC      3/31/95    n/a          Take all action necessary
to complete execution of
Part B.2 pursuant to
Section 3.07 (a) of the
Agreement, as approved
by the Association.
3.11(a)   6        CD       12/31/93   n/a         Furnish the Association,
for review and approval,
terms of reference for an
environmental
assessment of the sugar
industry.
3.11(b)   6        CD       5/31/94    n/a         To carry outthe
environmental
assessment, including the
review of contingent
liabilities of GUYSUCO
for possible
environmental problems.
3.12     10        C        10/31/93   2/15/94     To complete and furnish
to the Association, for
review and approval, a
report on policy and
program in respect of the
health services in the
sugar industry; upon the
Association's approval, to
implement the findings
and reconmmendations of
such report.
3.13     9         CP      n/a         n/a         The Borrower, through
the Privatization Board,
to furnish by October 31,
January 31, April 31 and
July 31 of each year,
progress reports on
achievements in carrying
out Part B of the Project.
4.01(a)   I        C        ii/a       n/a         Borrower to maintain, or
cause to be maintained,
separate records and
accounts in accordance
with sound accounting
practices, in respect of
Part B of the Project.



- 24 -
4.01(b)   I          NC*       n/a         n/a           Borrower to have records
and accounts, including
the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited
by independent auditors
acceptable to the
Association.
4.02(a)   I          C         n/a         n/a           Borrower to cause
GUYSUCO to maintain
records and accounts in
accordance with sound
practices, including
separate records in
respect of Part A of the
Project.
4.02(b)   I          C         ni/a        n/a           Borrower shall cause
GUYSUCO to have its
accounts and financial
statements (balance
sheets, statements of
income and expenses and
related statements), and
the records and accounts
for the Special Account
for each fiscal year
audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the
Association.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                    8.  = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation fi-om     9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                   action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
* Currently under preparation



- 25 -
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 4.00 Environmental Policies       Performance of an Environmental Audit of
GUYSUCO. Delayed compliance.
2. OP 5.10 Public Enterprise Reform and    Not complied. Preparation for divestiture done
Divestiture                   however Government has not gone through
with privatization of GUYSUCO.



- 26 -
Table 12: Ida Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned         Revised         Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks   US$   Weeks  US$   Week  (U0S$)
-          -       -R -=                  n..
Preparation to Appraisal            n/a     n/a     n/a    n/a   55.4   160.3
Appraisal                          n/a      n/a     n/a    n/a   26.0      77.7
Negotiations through Board Approval    n/a  n/a     n/a    n/a   30.2    32.1
Supervision                        n/a      n/a     n/a    n/a   43.4    56.2
Completion                         8.0    19.3      7.0   19.0    7.0       9.1
TOTAL                       L   _                    162.01 335.4



- 27 -
Table 13: Ida Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of          Month/      Number        Days in        Specialized      Implemen-         Develop-        Types of
Project Cycle         Year         of          Field         Staff Skills        tation           ment          Problems
Persons                     Represented         Status        Objectives
Through Appraisal       9/90        3            5              E,LO                    _               -_
11/90      2            4              E, F                    _               _               _
4/91        3           5              E, F, O                 -               -               -
10/91       3           5              E, F, L                 -               -               -
10/91       5           10             E, F, A                 -               -               -
Appraisal through       5/92        2            3             E,L L                                    _
Board Approval
11/92      4            2              E, F
6/93        2           4              E-- 
8/93        1           2              E---
Supervision             4/95        2            5             F                        U               S               P
12/95       1           3              F                       U               S               P
Completion              11/96       2            3             E, F                    U                U               P
Staff Skills:                                     Problems:
E = Economist                                     P = PolicylGovemnmenta]
L = Lawyer
F = Financial Analyst
A = Agronomist
0 = Division Chief
John R. Heath
M:\GUY-SUCO\ICR\FINALICR.DOC
March 25, 1997 3:26 PM






ANNEX A
GUYANA:  Sugar Industry Restructuring and Privatization Project
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide-Memoire
A World Bank mission' visited Guyana from November II to 14, 1996 to prepare the
Implementation Comoletion Report for the above project. The Mission held discussions
with the Senior Mvi\nister of Finance and with relevant officials from the sucar industry
(GUYSlUCO), the Privatization Unit and the Auditor General's Office. A wrap-up
meeting was held on November 13 at GUYSUCO.
The MLission would like to exzress their appreciation for the cordial assistance oven by the
off'icials of Government and zhe private management of GUJYSUCO.
Mlain Agreements
The Mvlission reminded the Government of its obligation to return Special Account funds
to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's February 2, 1996 letter to the Mlinister of
Finance. The mission also provided the Government with the full advice and support
needed for it to complete outstanding audit reports and the "Borrower's Final Evaluation
Report". The mission also lert with the Auditor General's Office a copy of the Bank's
guidelines for preparing audit reports and aTreed to send the Office a copy of the Bank's
Financial Reporting MIanual by November 23, 1996. It was agreed that the
Government would: (a) comply immediately with the February 2, 1996 letter
regarding the Special Account, (b) submit the outstanding audits by December 15,
1996, and (c) deliver the Evaluation Report to the Bank by February 28, 1997.
The mission discussed with GUYSUCO its fuiture investment plan. The 1995 Five-Year
Business Strategy document remains the current investment plan. However, GUYSUCO
is in the process of setting up a Task Force to refine this Strategy. GLUYSUCO agreed to
send to the Bank: (a) no later than November 23, 1996 data on key performance
indicators as requested in the Bank's fax of October 29, 1996; (b) copies of the
Project Management Proposal and Task Force Investment Plan (expected to be
completed by Mlarch, 1997), pending Booker Tate clearance; and (c) the 1996 audit
of GUYSUCO's financial statements (expected by iMvarch, 1997).
The Mlission overlapped in Guyana with a mission from the International Monetary Fund2.
The Bank and the Fund coordinated closely on the issue of sugar industry regulation and
jointly discussed with the Senior Finance Minister the components of an adequate
regulatory framework and the technical assistance that Government would need to put this
The mission comprised John Heath (Economist/Mission Leader) and iMusa Asad (Financial Analyst).
2 The t'E Mission was led bv MIr. Samuel Itam.



- 30                                     ANNEX A
in place. It was agreed that the Bank would send a consultant to work with
Government and GUYSUJCO on drawing up an appropriate regulatory framework.
The Government gave its 'no objection" to the consultant terms of reference
proposed by the Bank and 1MF; a copy of these is attached at Annex L The
Government agreed that the consultant could visit Guyana in the first half of
February 1997 and would, before March 31, 1997, reach agreement with the Bank
about the substance of the recommendations to be implemented.
The following sections of the aide-memoire summarize the key issues to be covered in the
Bank's part of the Implementation Completion Report, based on a review of available
documents and discussions during the mission with GUYSUCO and Government.
Project Objectives
The project aimed to: (a) stabilize sugar production and revenues at acceptable levels, bv
replacing or rehabilitating equipment and machinerv in urgent need of repair; (b)
restructure and privatize GlUYSUCO; and (c) introduce a regulatory framework that
would enhance the industry's competitiveness while guaranteeing an adequate level of
governmrent revenue.
Project Description
Components. (a) A two-year capital investment program sought to stabilize GIUYSUCO
output at the 1992 level of 240,000 tons by financing maintenance and replacement of
worn-out capital equipment at GUYSUCO's eight mills. This accounted for 93 percent of
project funds. (b) A technical assistance component, involving contracts for financial
consulting firms to help government restructure and privatize GUYSUCO, while allowing
workers to participate in the ownership of the company. These consultants would also
help establish a policy and regulatory framework for the industry, with particular reference
to fixing the level of the sugar export levy, eliminating foreign exchange retention,
retaining a corporation tax of35 percent, and eliminating GlUYSUCO's monopoly of
sugar imports.
In addition, when the project was negotiated, it was agreed that management of the
industry would remain in the hands of a private company; this contract would be financed
by GUjYSUCO, not by the project, but government would need to secure the Bank's "no
objection" to the terms of this contract.
Background. When the project was identified in late 1990, Guyana had failed to meet its
sugar export quota for three consecutive years and there was a real concem that the
European Union might reduce the volume of Guyana's sugar favored with preferential
market access. Also, given that the industry was by far the largest net earner of foreign
exchange (40 percent of total) and fiscal revenues (12 percent of total), it was feared that
further decline would hamper the nation's ability to service its very substantial public
external debt.



-31-                                     ANNEX A
At that time, government was seriously interested in privatizng GUYSUCO and there was
a would-be buyer in the shape of Booker Tate, which had privately managed the company
since 1990, and had already put money on the table. With the change of govemrnment in
October 1992, the enthusiasm for privatization substantialy diminished and the project
was scaled down from a USS216 million buy-out (to be jointly financed by government,
Booker, CDB, DA, and EC) to a USSI5 million dollar operation whose purpose was
"restructurina, with a view to eventual privatization". By the time the project was
approved, restoring GUYSUCO's ability to generate revenue for the governrment had
become the main issue; privatization was a secondary concern from government's point of
view--the priority was rehabilitation.
In principle, rehabilitation need not be a prerequisite for privatization. The cost of
rehabilitation could have been factored into the bid price offered by interested private
investors. Thus, it is doubtful that lending to finance costs that could have been borne by
the private sector was a good use of MDA resources. When the project was identified (end
of 1990), it was argued that rehabilitation was needed immediately in order to bring
output back to a level (c. 240,000 tons) where the EU quota comrnitment could be met; it
could not wait for divestirure to be completed. However, by the time of appraisal in 1993,
sugar output had recovered to 243,000 tons: therefore, well before Board approval, there
was no longer any risk that the EU would scale back the Guyana quota owing to non-
compliance.
Achievement of Project Objectives
On the eve of closing the project's overall, rating is Unsatisfactory owing to failure to meet
the privatization objective; however, the rehabilitation objective was fully met during the
life of the project.
The objective of rehabilitating some factory equipment in order to stabilize production and
revenue was realized. Although procurement of the relevant equipment was not financed
from project resources, the project did provide the framework and the discipline for
rehabilitation to take place. Also, the project conditionality that GUJYSUCO remain under
private management was complied with; if this conditionality had not existed,
Government may have failed to renew the management contract.
However, contrary to the stated objectives of the Project, the government took no steps to
privatize the sugar industry. Proposals for a stronger regulatory framework were made,
but not implemented during the life of the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
A number of factors outside the project led to a recovery in the fortunes of GUYSUCO
after 1990: depreciation of the exchange rate increased the revenue, in local currency
terms, from sugar exports; the world price of sugar increased; Guyana's export quota
increased by 27,000 tons (by special agreement with Portugal), and weather conditions
were favorable. Major steps were taken to liberalize the foreign exchange rate regime so



-32 -                                     ANNEX A
that, when the project closed, foreign exchange retention was no longer an issue.
GUYSUCO is now allowed to retain 80 percent of its foreign exchange earnings, a share
that is scheduled to increase to 100 percent by the end of 1996. The industry also
benefited from sound management by Booker Tate. While it was a requirement of the
project that the industry remain under private management, the project was not
instrumental in influencing the terms of the contract-which was awarded to Booker in
1990, well before project effectiveness.
As a result of this favorable environment, sugar output rose from 160,000 tons in 1991 to
an estimated 275,000 tons in 1996 (compared to 240,000 tons projected at Appraisal).
There was a substantial improvement in yields, revenues and profitability. The TC/TS
yield measure improved from 14.36 in 1991 to 11.56 in 1995; the output per acre rose
from 1.71 tons in 1991 to 2.41 in 1995. After payment of the export levy, GLUYSUCO's
free cash flow is expected to be about USS20 million in 1996. The company has therefore
been available to finance investments in new equipment from its own resources, without
recourse to project funds. In addition to the increase in profitability, the ratio of current
assets to current liabilities was 1.3 in 1995, a solid improvement over the late 1980s.
Finally, the ratio of total debt to total assets is down to levels better than those projected
at appraisal.
The Finance MLinister who most vigorously supported GUYSUCO's privatization was
replaced, leaving this objective without a strong advocate. In the event, it proved possible
to meet output targets without privatization, and this may have led to a further weakening
of government resolve.
Owing to government delay, it took 18 months for the Privatization Unit to become fully
operational. The Unit remained under the control of the Ministry of Finance and never
acquired the autonomy needed to assume full responsibility for day-to-day project
management, decisions often resting with the Miinister of Finance. There was a change of
Minister midway through the Project and there were also changes in the personnel of the
Privatization Unit: this loss of continuity substantially weakened project implementation.
Phase I of the privatization component--the design phase--was carried out; although,
owing to government's delay in recruiting the consulting firm and the firm's slowness to
deliver, the final report was not received until September 1996. The firm was hired to:
(a) recommend whether or not the industry should be broken up before sale; (b) carry out
a valuation of the industry's assets; (c) design an Employee Stock Ownership Plan; and
(d) draft a regulatory framework for the industry. Overall, this study was deemed to be
satisfactory by the Bank. However, the valuation component was incomplete owing to
data constraints that the consultants cannot be held responsible for. Thus, it was possible
to establish a value for GUTYSUCO in its present shape and form, but impossible to
estimate the value that the company would generate if its assets were either broken up or
put to an alternative use--mainly because, given the incompleteness of the land market, it
was impossible to place a value on the estate's leased by the Government to GUYSUCO.



- 33 -                                    ANNEX A
Goverinment's slowness to implement Phase I was a clear sign of lack of enthusiasm for
privatization. The Bank's decision to hold up disbursement until the work had been
commissioned was a good way to signal the importance of the privatization component.
However, the Bank had limited leverage because GUYSUCO was able to finance most of
the equipment needs from its own funds.
An environmental assessment was comrnissioned in order to identify liabilities that private
investors would need to factor into their bid. The most pressing environmental problems
identified were: poor effluent treatment, owing to broken down equipment and the
absence of suitable treatment norms; and excessive use of fuel oil, owing to the lack of
bagasse. The environmental assessment report was due by the end of May 1994 but the
final version was not delivered until June 1996, largely owing to the delay in setting up the
Privatization Unit (which was responsible for supervising consultant contracts).
The Bank made every effort to ensure that GLJYSUCO remained under private
management, at one point heading off an attempt by government to terminate the contract
with Booker Tate. However, contrary to agreements reached during negotiations, the
Bank did little to vet the terms of the management contract; indeed, the contract was not
reviewed until shortly before project closin--at which time the Bank had little leverage in
determining the length of the contract period, or the specification of performance
benchmarks to which the Board of GUYSUCO and Booker Tate could jointly comrmit.
Booker Tate has a one-year, rolling contract that arg-uably fails to provide the right
incentives. It is impossible for management to execute an effective business plan when the
time horizon is so short. The contract provides inadequate benchmarks for the government
to evaluate progress toward increasing the industry's efficiency. These considerations
become all the more critical if the industry is not privatized, because, as long as the
industry remains in public ownership, market discipline cannot be relied upon to ensure
that efficiency goals are met.
Project Sustainability
For a number of reasons, essentially unrelated to the project, the performance of the sugar
industry has improved substantially since 1990. Field and factory productivities have risen
and are expected to improve still further over the next five years. Labor supply is secure
and relations between the company and the workforce have improved. Old field
equipment has been replaced and wom out factory installations are being rehabilitated.
New stores and computer systems have been set up. Measures to improve health, safety
and environmental protection are being implemented.
The solid progress in each of these areas makes it highly likely that the recent
improvements in the industry's performance will be sustained. GUYSUCO currently aims
to reduce production costs from the present level of US$0.19/lb to USSO.13-0.15/lb--
which would be competitive in terms of current world prices. However, if this target is to
be realized, two conditions must be met. First, the rehabilitation of capital equipment



ANNEX A
must continue, presupposing that the company generates enough internal financing to
cover these investments. Second, the quality of GITYSUCO's managerial and technical
staff must be maintained. These conditions will be met only if the government ensures:
(a) that GUYSUCO remains under private management, giving it the support to take the
necessary steps towards rationalization, steps which may be politically sensitive; and (b)
that the policy and regulatory environment allows the industry to balance the needs of the
Government for revenue and generate sufficient retums to cover GUJYSUCO investment
needs.
Bank Performance
Ulp to and immediately following project appraisal the Bank and the Govemrnent were
highly committed to achieving the Project's objectives. This was reflected in the Bank's
com.mitment of resources which, throuah Board Approval, totaled 112 staff weeks or
USS270,000--an average-to-high resource input by Bank standards. However, in the
period from Approval to one month before Completion the supervision input was only 43
staff weeks (USS56,000)-which is substantially less than Bank norms. The falloff in Bank
input reflects this institution's reaction to a perceived weakening of Government's
commitment to the privatization objection; and, to a lesser extent, it was a consequence
of staff rotation in the Bank. From preparation to completion the project had no fewer
than five task managers, resulting in a loss of follow up and continuity.
Notwithstanding the supervision shortfall, the Bank made serious efforts to keep project
implementation on track. These efforts included: (a) firequent communication with
Governnment and with GUYSUCO management, through formal and informal channels;
(b) extensive negotiation with, and supervision of, the consultants hired to carry out the
privatization and environmental studies; (c) substantial assistance to GUjYSUCO staffin
devisin, an investment plan for factory rehabilitation and in preparing related bid
documents; (d) fully adequate advice to Government on the auditinc of project and
GTIYSUCO accounts; and (e) in-depth assistance to Government on privatization
strategies and the regulatory framework for the industry.
Borrower Performance
GUYSUCO's performance was very sound; but the Government's record has been
somewhat less satisfactory. Although the revival of the sugar industry's fortunes owes
much to an improvement in the price and exchange rate environment, it is undeniable that
GUYSUCO's management--with excellent leadership by Booker Tate--played a critical
role in ensuring that the industry reaped maximum benefit from the improved environment.
The management has stabilized the industry and has laid the foundations for continuing
growth. It has also made a major contribution to improving labor relations and upgrading
health, safety and environmental conditions. GUYSUCO staff were very responsive to the
Bank, cooperating fully with the procurement, financial management and reporting
requirements of the Project.



-35-                                     ANNEX A
Follow up by Government has not been as effective as it might have been. For example,
once it became clear that privatization would not be achieved during the span of the
Project, the Bank proposed a revised action plan (April 1995); but the Government failed
to respond. There were numerous instances when official Bank correspondence went
unanswered. During Bank rnissions to Guyana-or visits by the Goverrnment to
Washington--it was often di5icult for the Bank to arrange meetings with key officials.
The Government made little contribution to the preparation of consultant terms of
reference and the feedback it provided on consultant reports was limited.
Lessons Learned
(a) The justification for committing scarce DA resources to privatization projects
needs to be examined closely: particularly when, as in the case here, such projects could
be commerciallv financed and an investor has already expressed interest in making a bid;
(b) In each case, the arguments for and against privatization need to be examined
very careully. There may be a large efficiency gain to be made by bringing publicly-
owned enterprises under private management--providing that the regulatorv regime is
adequate and the management contract is performance-based; once this has been
achieved, the added gain from sellinc off all or part of the enterprise to private investors
may be small--too small to offset the often substantial political cost of negotiating the
passage from public to private ownership. On the other hand, it must be conceded that, in
the absence of full privatization, the industry may be less able to make politically
unpopular choices (e.g. regarding layoffs), and less successflut in its attempt to secure both
the investment needed to ensure long-term sustainability and the key technical personnel
needed to carry out the program of upgrading; and
(c) A privatization strategy needs to be properly sequenced. When governnents
launch a privatization drive, they should start with enterprises that are not politically
sensitive and are relatively easv to privatize; these early "success stories" are critical for
building know-how and broader support for more difficult operations (such as
GUYSUCO) where substantial rents are involved and there are powerful lobbies--both
within government and the labor unions. It mnakes little sense to develop (but not
implement) a privatization project at the end of an administration, given that there is no
guarantee that the next government will follow up.
/ Qo nohnHeath                                    Bharrat Jagdeo
World Bank                                    Sr. Minister of Finance
G.N. Hilary
World Bank                                    Chief Executive Officer, GLTYSUCO
November 13, 1996, Georgetown, Guyana



ANNEX A
Attachment 1
GUYANA
DEVELOP,NETNT OF A DRAFT REGULATORY FRAMIEWORK FOR THE
SUGAR INDUSTRY
Terms of Reference for Consultant Study
Overall bbjectives
The ultimate aim is to create a renulatory framework that is conducive to the efEcient
management of resources at an economywide level; the sphere of reference thus extends
beyond GLYSUCO. The framzework will be based on the assumption that this state-
owned enterprise will . emain under a private management contract for the immediate
future, pending eventual privatization. In drawing up the framework, the following
principles should be observed:
* the regulations must be enforceable, and not costly to administer-,
* the rationale for the rezulations needs to be transparent;
*   regalatior.s should create incentives for resources to be managed efficiently:
providing a framework within which the survival of GUYlSUCO will
ultimately be contingent on its competitivenes;
*   revulations must be consistent with the international protocols binding upon
Guyana.
Specific Tasks
(I) Assess the rationaZe for retaining a levy on sugar export revenues.
The aim is to consider: (a) whether the Levy should be retained in its present forrn; (b)
whether it should be modified; or (c) whether the 1974 Act on which it is founded should
be repealed, allowing other instruments (Corporation Tax, lease payments etc.) to
generate the necessary transfers to Government. It wi.l be important to ensure that the
recommendation satisfactorily balances the Government's need to earn fiscal revenue from
the sugar industry with the need of the industry to retain profits in order to make the
critical investments needed for more efficient operation. Whatever instrument is
recornmended should be transparently formulated and easy to administer, giving the
management of GTIYSUCO advance information about the size of the transfer entailed.
(2) Review the tariff regime governing inputs imported by the sugar industry.
The aim is to consider whether the existing tariffs applied to the industry-including tariff
spreads between imported agricultural and factory inputs--are consistent with those
applied to other enterprises in Guyana; and consistent with intemational protocols to
which Guyana is siznatory (e.g. CARICOM). The justification for any discrepancies
should be carefilly exarmined. It will also be irnportant to identify any ad hoc exemptions
to the tariff regime which may lend themselves to arbitrary and inconsistent enforcement.
. .~



-37 -
ANNEX A
Attachment 1
(3) Checkfor consistency in the application of Corporation Tam
The rationale for the level of taxation on corporate profits should be examined. Also, the
case for rnaintaining any discrepancies between the tax rate on GUYSUCO and that on
other enterprises should be reviewed. This issue should be placed in the context of all
other charges on the industry (Levy, Profit Sharing Formula, land leases, etc.) since there
is potentially a trade-off between these charges.
(4) Review the rationale for domestic pricing of sugar.
The aim is to consider the arguments for and against introducing full liberalization of the
import regime for sugar, balancing governnent needs for revenue with protection of the
interests of the industry and those of consumers. In particular, the case for maintaining a
variable import levy should be reviewed, with due consideration of any protocols binding
upon Guyana.
(5) Review progress in removing restrictions on foreign exchange retention.
It will be necessary to check that GUYSUCO is free to retain as much of its foreign
exchange earnings as it deems necessary, consistent with the broader move to liberalize
the exchange rate regime.
(6) Review the formula for sharing revenue between GUYSUCO estates andfarmers.
The aim is to consider whether or not measures should be taken to ensure that farmers are
made subject to the Sugar Levy--whose burden is now borne entirely by GTJYSUCO.
Any other factors bearing on revenue sharing should be fully considered.
(7) Ensure that the cane paymentformula is efficiency enhancing, reviewing the National
Cane Farmers Act and norms regulating estate cane cutting.
It will be necessary to determine that there are adequate incentives for farmers and cutters
to deliver a good product in a timely fashion: the efficacy of the sampling methods and
performance-related pay mechanisms will need to be reviewed.
(8) Investigate the regulations bearing on lease of land by GUYSUCO.
The aim is to examine the case for altering the basis on which the Government leases land
to GUYSUCO, with a view to enhancing the efficiency of landuse. This would include the
possibility of bringing the lease rate into line with market prices; and varying lease rates to
reflect variations in land quality and market access. One option may be to auction off the
leases, allowing alternative users to bid alongside GUYSUCO. Consideration must be
given to the arguments for GUYSUCO to divest some of the land that it currently leases



r  -38 -                                   ANNEX A
Attachment 1
(or owns). The case for substituting market-driven lease rates for the Sugar Levy should
be reviewed.
(9) Review the balance of incentives in the private management contract.
A key concern is whether the contract period is long enough for the private manager to
implement a strategic plan: various options in terrns of contract length will be explored.
In addition, the existing contract will be reviewed to see whether it contains adequate
indicators against which the performance of management can be assessed. It will
necessary to develop a set of benchmarks that will allow for full comparison of
GUYSUCO with intemnational competitors; one of these benchmarks will be the unit cost
of sugar production--the consultant will need to examine the feasibility of introducing into
the management contract a strategic plan for reducing unit costs. The evaluation of
management performance will needto be tied closely to a reciprocal commitnent by
government to allow the industry to retain the profits needed to finance the investments on
which increased efficiency is predicated.
(IO,) Revieiv the contracts between management and sugar industry employees.
The consultant will review the collective bargaining agreements with each of the two labor
unions operating in GUYSUCO. The hirina and firing rules, severance packages and
overall conditions of employment need to be examined to ensure that, on the one hand,
they provide adequate protection to workers and, on the other, do not unduly hamper the
enterprise's capacity to restructure in line with the objective of reducing unit costs.



The World Bank                                 181s8 H Sb  N.W.           (I, 477-134      ANNEX B
INTRUMTKL BANK FOR R9CcNsTRUcMON ANO O!VLOPMENT   Washk%glto O.C. 2433    Cable AddM= INTBAFRAD
WTNATT 4AL. OUV.OPENT ASSOCATTCN               U.S.A.                     Cable Addr. INOEVAS
January 13, 1997
Hon. Bharrat Jagdeo
Senior Nvunister of Finance
hfLnistry of Finance
Main and Urquhart Streets
Georgetown Guyana
FAX 592-261X84
Sugar Industry Restructuring and Privatization Project (Credit 2545-GUA)
Fina] Supervision Report
Dear Mvfinister Jagdeo
Thank you for the kindness and cooperation afforded Messrs. Heath and Asad
during their rission of November 11-14. I am pleased to note that the mission achieved
its two primary objectives: first, to make arrangements for Governmnent's contnbution to
the project's Implementation Completion Report; and second, to agree on the terms of
reference for a study on the regulatory framework of the sugar industry.
I am attaching a copy of the mission's aide-memoire summarizng the main
agreements reached. With respect to the first objective, it was agreed with Mr.
Brassington that the Privatization Unit would assume responsibility for preparing the
"Borrower's Final Evaluation Report"; and that this would be delivered to the Bank by
February 28, 1997.
With respect to the regulatory study, I note that when you met with the Bank and
EMT rmissions on November 12, it was agreed that the Government had "no objection" to
the proposed terms of reference; a copy of these is appended to the aide-memoire. I also
understand that you expect the consultant to conduct the study in the first half of February
1997.
As you will recall, the completion date for new funding commitments from this
loan was June 30, 1996 and its closing date was December 31, 1996. However, we
believe that the consulting work for the regulatory study would qualif for financing under
the Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit (No. 2669-GUA), which covers
activities within the remit of the Privatization Unit.
RCA 248421. C WUI 64145 Cl FAX (2=2) 47741J9



Hon. Bharrat agdeo                   -2-                      January 13, 1997    ANNEXB
I suggest that the Privatization Unit initate the consultant search and recruitment
process. We have already identified a possible candidate for this assignment, and we are
forwarding his resume to the Unit
Because of their interest in these matters, I am sending copies of this letter to Mr.
Brassington and Mr. Itam.
Sincerely,
Jonathan Parker
Acting Division Chief
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty
Country Operations Department m
Latin America and the Caribbean
cc. Mr. Winston Brassington
Privatization Unit
126 Barrack Street
Georgetown, Guyana
(FAX 592-266426)
MIr. Samuel Itam
International Monetary Fund
Washington, D.C., U.S.A






IMAGING
Report No.:         16652
Type:      ICR



