Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11657-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
AUGUST 27, 1993
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dollar (G$)
Official Exchange Rate Effective December 1992
US$1.00 = G$ 125.00
US$0.008 = G$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Long Ton = 2240 lbs
Metric Ton = 2204 lbs
(The Guyanese sugar industry accounts for its production in long tons)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BT           -     Booker Tate
CDB         -      Caribbean Development Bank
CDC         -      Commonwealth Development Corporation
EEC         -      European Economic Community
ERP         -      Economic Recovery Program
ESOP        -      Employee Stock Ownership Program
GOG         -      Government of Guyana
GUYSUCO   -        Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited
IDB         -      Inter-American Development Bank
IFC         -      International Finance Corporation
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.      CREDIr  AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..... .. .......... .                             1
2.      GUYANA AND THE SUGAR INDUSTRY  ................                                 4
Background ....................................    4
Economic Performance .............................                            4
The Agriculture Sector and the Sugar Industry in Guyana  ...         ....     6
Government Policies and Strategy in the Sugar Industry  ....         ....    12
IDA Agricultural Strategy ...........................    13
Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Lending .................    13
3.      THE PROJECT   ..........                  .......................    15
Introduction . ...................................  15
Rationale for IDA Involvement .......................    15
Objectives and Description ..........................    16
Capital Investment Component  .......................    17
Technical Assistance Component ......................    18
The New Regulatory Framework  ......................    19
Cost and Financing  ..............................   21
Procurement ...................................   21
Disbursement ...........              .......................   22
Accounts and Audits ..............................   23
Management, Implementation and Monitoring  ..............   23
Financial and Economic Justification ....................   24
Environmental Impact .............................   26
Benefits and Risks ...............................   27
4.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .....  29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal which visited Guyana in October 1991
and on a follow-up mission in November 1992. Both missions comprised Mr. Vicente Ferrer
(Task Manager) and Ms. Aida Velarde (Financial Analyst). Messrs. Stephen Oliver
(LA3DR), D. Berthelot (LATIF) and Donald Mitchell (IECCIT) reviewed the original
feasibility study. The Department Director and Sector Division Chief for the operation were
Messrs. Yoshiaki Abe and Nicholas Krafft, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Table of Contents (cont)
Page No.
ANNEX 1 - DETAILED FEATURES OF THE PROJECT  ....                .......   32
Table 1 - Sugar Production, Budget 1993  ................   42
Table 2 - Summary of GUYSUCO's Capital Budget 1993             43
Table 3 - List of Equipment, 1993 .....................   47
Table 4 - GUYSUCO's Operating Budget 1993 ....      .........  53
Table 5 - Procurement Table ........................   56
Table 6 - Disbursement Table  .......................   57
Table 7 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit ... .   58
ANNEX 2 - STRUCTURE, OPERATIONS AND PROFITABILITY
OF GUYSUCO  ...............................  59
Appendix 1 - Sugar Markets, Quotas and Prices ....   ........   69
Table 1 - GUYSUCO Staffing .......................   72
Table 2 - Booker Tate Management Team  ...............   73
Table 3 - Historical Weighted Average Yields  ....   ........   74
Table 4 - Cane Quality ...........................   75
Table 5 - Factory Performance ......................  76
Table 6 - Cane Area and Sugar Production by Estate, 1992 .. ..  .   77
Table 7 - 1992 Actual Sugar Sales and Expected 1993 Sales ... .   79
Table 8 - Projected Sugar Prices (1992-2002) ....   .........   80
Table 9 - Audited Financial Statements (1985-91) .... .......   81
Table 10 - Key Financial Indicators (1985-1993) .... ........   84
Table 11 - Projected Cash Flow Statement
(With Project/without modernization) ....   .........  85
Table 12 - Projected Cash Flow Statement
(With Project and modernization) ................   89
Table 13 - Sugar Levy (1990-1995) ....................  93
ANNEX 3 - TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FINANCIAL ADVISORS ...   94
ANNEX 4 - LETTER OF POLICY  ..........................  104
ANNEX S - SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE  ..............................  107



GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMMARY
Borrower:   The Republic of Guyana
Beneficiary: Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Amount:    SDR 10.9 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:      Standard, with 40 years maturity
On-lending
Terms:      The Government of Guyana (GOG) would on-lend
US$14.0 million equivalent of the IDA credit to GUYSUCO in
dollars for 10 years, including 3 years of grace, at a rate equal
to LIBOR plus two percentage points. GUYSUCO would
assume the foreign exchange and the cross-currency risks.
Project
Description: The project is designed to assist GOG in securing
GUYSUCO's present level of production and financial viability
and in privatizing GUYSUCO under an agreed regulatory and
policy framework which could ensure reasonable fiscal and
foreign exchange revenues to GOG. The newly restructured
company would be expected to provide the resources to finance
the rehabilitation, rationalization and modernization of the
sugar industry and ensure its long-term profitability. During
the transition period before restructuring and privatization, the
proposed project would finance a minimal two-year capital
investment program for equipment and machinery urgently
needed to help stabilize GUYSUCO's present sugar production
level at about 240,000 tons and secure the EEC and USA
sugar quotas. Under the supervision of its Board of Directors,
GUYSUCO would manage the project using a private sector
management team.



-2 -
Poverty
Category:   Not applicable
Benefits:    The limited investment program proposed under the project
would help Guyana secure its EEC sugar quota and stabilize
sugar production in the short to medium term. It would also
help secure the long-term efficiency and sustainability of the
sugar industry by restructuring and privatizing GUYSUCO
under an agreed regulatory and policy framework. This would
help attract technology and financing from the private sector to
undertake a major rehabilitation and rationalization investment
program and increase production levels to at least 250,000 tons
per year. The larger investment program would permit the
Government to retain adequate levels of foreign exchange and
fiscal flows while allowing GUYSUCO to maintain a
profitability level high enough to sustain the interest of the
private sector in the industry.
Risks:      There are few implementation risks given the simple design of
the proposed project. The main risk is that the proposed
imited investment program may prove insufficient if a major
breakdown or failure of factory machinery and equipment,
agricultural field equipment or field infrastructure occurs
during the next two years. This risk would be minimized by
the built-in flexibility of financing and disbursements under the
project. There are three major long-term risks to the industry.
The first is the possible delay in privatizing GUYSUCO and
hence, in implementing GUYSUCO's overall rehabilitation and
rationalization investment program. The second is the
financial risk related to world price levels and principally, the
future of the quotas and prices in the EEC and USA
preferential sugar markets. Related to both risks is the
possible drop in the Government's fiscal revenues and foreign
exchange earnings. The proposed project would attenuate the
restructuring and privatization delay risks by establishing an
enabling regulatory environment for private investment in the
sugar industry. The risk of losing the preferential quotas is
minimized through the implementation of the limited
investment program proposed under the project. The risks of a
reduction in the size of the quota, principally the EEC's (being
by far the more important) are limited in the medium term by
the fact that the Sugar Agreement does not run out until 1996
and the very real possibility, now under discussion, that



-3 -
Guyana may be allocated a higher EEC quota, beginning next
year, to cover the Portuguese market. The risk of a drop in
"world" or quota prices is limited by the low exposure of
Guyana to "world" prices and by pressures to keep high
domestic producer prices in the EEC and the USA, to which
quota prices are linked. Furthermore, the eventual
disappearance of the preferential markets on the world sugar
market (and hence on Guyana and GUYSUCO) is likely to
increase the world price of sugar to US$0.15-0.20/lb. The
effect of such a price level on the profitability of an efficient
and competitive GUYSUCO would be well within the bounds
of acceptable commercial and financial risks.
Project Cost:
Foreign   Local    Total
(US$ million)
Agriculture and Field Infrastructure      7.7     6.0    13.7
Factory and Related Services Development    18.4    2.3    20.7
Administration                            1.4     3.7      5.1
Financial Advisors                        1.0    --        1.0
Total                                    28.5    12.0    40.5
Financing Plan:
IDA                                      15.0    --       15.0
CDB                                       3.0              3.0
Suppliers                                 1.9    --        1.9
GUYSUCO                                   8.6    12.0    20.6
Total                       28.5    12.0    40.5
Estimated Disbursements:
--------------Bank Fiscal Year---------
.1994           I2t2     ~      1292
------------(US$ million)---------
Annual                 6.0             6.0             3.0
Cumulative             6.0            12.0            15.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map: IBRD 24649



2. GUYANA AND THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
Background
2.1         Guyana's economy is mainly based on the production and
export of bauxite, sugar and rice. Agricultural activity, which accounts for
about 30% of GDP in 1991 (including forestry and fisheries), is concentrated
along the coastal belt of the country, where most of the population resides;
whereas the extensive mineral and timber resources within the densely
tropical hinterland--with the exception of bauxite mining--remain largely
unexploited. Because of the country's topography and uneven distribution of
its small population, the country's infrastructural needs are substantial on a
per capita basis. Guyana's population, estimated at about 800,000 in 1980,
has been declining over the past decade as a result of a low birth rate and
continuous emigration reflecting lack of economic opportunity. With an area
of about 210,000 km2, the population density is a low 3.2/km2. Economic
activity has been retarded by a difficult physical environment; by sharp
fluctuations in output, stemming from the vulnerability of the economy to
exogenous factors such as weather and fluctuations in international prices and
demand; and by the Government's failure to address crucial macroeconomic
policy issues until recently.
Economic Performance
2.2         Since 1988, Guyana has been implementing a medium-term
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) aimed at addressing serious domestic
and external imbalances in the economy and establishing the basis for
renewed economic growth. The ERP has been supported by an IMF standby
arrangement and an IDA Structural Adjustment Credit, both of which were
approved in June 1990, as well as by similar assistance from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB), and bilateral donors. Under the ERP, Guyana has undertaken far-
reaching adjustment measures and structural reforms, implying a fundamental
shift in economic policies towards a market-oriented economy. The overall
fiscal deficit has been reduced; the exchange and trade system has been
liberalized and the exchange rate unified; virtually all price controls have
been removed and consumer subsidies eliminated; the incentive framework
for the private sector has improved and state intervention in agricultural,
industrial, and commercial activities has been curtailed; progress has been
made in restructuring and reducing the size of the public sector, including tax
reform, strengthening expenditure controls and privatization of public
enterprises; a shift to market-based instruments of monetary control has been



-5-
initiated; arrears to multilateral and bilateral donors have been cleared; and a
social impact amelioration program has been introduced. While the
Government is conscious that the process of adjustment must continue, if a
sustainable recovery in economic activity is to be achieved, it is,
nevertheless, concerned about the severe hardships currently faced by large
segments of society and believes there is a need to address promptly the
deterioration in social conditions as an important part of its adjustment
program. However, Guyana's existing debt service burden continues to place
a major constraint on the Government's ability to address the large social and
infrastructural needs of Guyana.
2.3         Guyana's economic performance improved markedly in 1991.
Recorded real GDP increased by about 6% after four consecutive years of
decline. The exchange rate in the exchange market stabilized during the
second half of 1991, and the rate of inflation slowed to about 20% on an
annual basis during the last four months of the year. The overall deficit of
the public sector (including the Bank of Guyana) narrowed from 65 % of
GDP in 1990 to 45% in 1991, reflecting mainly a sharply improved
performance of the Central Govemment and of the state enterprises and
lower public investment outlays. The extemal current account deficit also
declined, from US$148 million in 1990 to US$119 million in 1991, mainly as
a result of higher export receipts, while gross intemational reserves exceeded
the program target by a substantial margin and increased to the equivalent of
more than six months of merchandise imports at end-1991. The recovery in
economic activity continued during the first half of 1992 and real GDP
growth for the year, as a whole, is expected to be about 6.5 %. Inflation
slowed further, with prices increasing by about 12% during the first nine
months, which is broadly consistent with the revised target of 15% of the
year. There was a significant decline in interest rates, with the average yield
on three-month treasury bills dropping from 31% at end-1991 to 24.5% in
October 1992. At the same time, private sector financial savings expanded at
a much faster pace than envisaged in the program, increasing by about 19%
in real terms during the first nine months of the year. In addition, the
overall deficit of the non-financial public sector amounted to about 70% of
that envisaged in the program during the first half of the year, and gross
international reserves increased by a further US$19 million during the first
nine months of 1992, compared with a decline of US$5 million in the
program. Some progress was made in reducing external debt and debt-
service obligations with the cancellation of loans amounting to US$155
million by the United States, Canada, and the Netherlands, and a debt-
reduction agreement was reached with Brazil. Guyana was also able to retire
its entire commercial bank debt totalling around US$93 million, including



- 6 -
principal and past due interest, through the use of grant funds made available
under the debt reduction facility for IDA countries.
The Agriculture Sector and the Sugar Industry In Guyana
2.4         Agriculture remains of crucial importance to Guyana's
economy despite its poor performance over the last decade resulting from
interventionist and distortionary policies. The agriculture sector accounted
for about 30% of GDP in 1991, 48% of merchandise exports, and 3540% of
employment. Sugar and rice account for the lion's share of agricultural
activity with sugar accounting for 15% of GDP, 40% of exports, 12% of
Government's budgetary revenues and, with about 27,500 employees, more
than 10% of employment. The importance of the sugar industry (including
sugarcane and milling) in Guyana cannot be overemphasized. Its decline
during the period 1981-1990 accounted for most of the almost 3% annual rate
of decline of agricultural value added and for almost 60% of the decline in
total GDP over the same period. It is, therefore, imperative to tackle the
policy and institutional constraints of the sugar sector if the agricultural
sector and the economy at large are to be revitalized.
2.5         The Industry's Enviromment and Background. Guyana is
situated at a latitude some 5-10° north of the equator and is subject to the
equatorial convergent zone rain belts which give two rainy seasons each year.
Heavy clay soils and low lying topography (often below sea level) present a
whole range of problems concerning soil moisture levels and the management
of both regional drainage and conserved water. The sugar industry, which
has been operating in Guyana for more than 300 years, has developed a
unique agricultural system and an infrastructure to suit this natural
environment. Inland areas have been created to conserve rainwater and
thence to direct it to the arable areas of the coastal belt. This has been done
by constructing a comprehensive reticulation of canals and drains. As a
result, the productive lands are laid out in rectangular strips extending from
the sea defenses to the limits of the forest. The canals within these areas
provide both irrigation water and drainage and, in the sugar estates, a
navigable route for supplying inputs to the fields and transporting the crop to
the sugar factories. A protective sea wall has been built along the full length
of the Atlantic coastline and inland along the principal river estuaries.
Drainage water is discharged into the sea either through sluices at low tide or
through low-lift pumps.



-7-
2.6         The sugar industry in Guyana, which dates back to the early
seventeenth century, was principally owned (80%) and operated by Booker
Plc of Englandl' until 1976. In that year, the industry was nationalized and
the two sugar producing groups (Bookers Sugar Estates controlled by Booker
Plc, with nine factories, and the Demerara Sugar Company, which had been
nationalized in 1975, with two factories) were consolidated into a parastatal
company, the Guyana Sugar Corporation Ltd. (GUYSUCO), fully owned by
the Government and operating eight factories producing 350,000 tons of
sugar annually. Following the nationalization, Booker Plc was retained under
a contractual agreement with GUYSUCO to act as the marketing agent for
the company. Tate & Lyle' continued as the purchaser of all of
GUYSUCO's sugar production destined to the EEC market. The total area
under GUYSUCO's control is some 146,000 acres, of which about 122,000
acres are potentially available for sugarcane. Of the total 146,000 acres
under GUYSUCO's control, some 50,000 acres (34%) is freehold and about
96,000 acres (66%) leasehold. The leasehold arrangements were fixed
following nationalization in 1976, and provide for a 99-year term expiring in
2075. Where leases were not appropriate, licenses to use the land were
issued covering the same period. All fixed assets are on freehold land as are
various other properties in the environs of Georgetown. The productive
structure of the industry is covered in more detail in Annex 1, Part A.
GUYSUCO also purchases sugarcane from about 2,200 small holders outside
the estates who produce on about 12,000 additional acres.
2.7        In addition to the estates, other significant assets of
GUYSUCO include: (a) head office in Georgetown (leased); (b) Demerara
Sugar Terminals (DST), the bulk storage and export shipping terminal on the
Demerara River; (c) Guyana Agricultural Research Unit (GARU), the
industry's central agricultural research center; and (d) the Port Mourant
Apprentice School.
2.8        Industry Performance and Structure of Production to 1990.
Because of the drop in the world price of sugar in the 1980s, production was
reduced to about 250,000 tons in 1985 from 350,000 tons at the time of
nationalization in 1976. Since then, under continued Government ownership
and management, GUYSUCO's output fell to a low 130,000 tons in 1990.
The 1990 output level of 130,000 tons was well below Guyana's combined
1/    Booker Plc is a well-known British company with strong worldwide sugar interests
and close historical links to Guyana.
2,/   Tate & Lyle is another well-known British company with interests in sugar refining.



- 8 -
quota of 164,000 tons to the EEC under the Lome Agreement, and
16,000 tons under the USA quota. Highly attractive prices are paid for sugar
produced and exported under these quotas (about US$0.25/lb under the Lome
Agreement and approximately US$0.21/lb under the USA quota compared to
about US$0.09/lb in the world market) (Annex 2). With the drop in
production and efficiency, GUYSUCO's sugar production costs crept up to
about US$0.18/lb by 1990 in real terms from levels of US$0.14-0.15/lb in
the early 1980s (the most efficient mills worldwide produce at about
US$0. 12/lb). In 1990, total cane production in the eight estates was
1,885,000 tons, with a yield of 22.3 tons/acre. Daily nominal crushing
capacity in the factories was 19,600 tons/day, with an overall capacity of
71.9% and a tons cane/tons sugar (tc/ts) ratio of 15.4. Additionally, farmers
produced 122,500 tons of cane in 1990 (about 6% of total output), down
from almost 15% of total output in 1979.
2.9         Industry Issues and Constraints. The decline in output from
250,000 to 130,000 tons was due to a combination of: (a) inappropriate
Government policies which drained resources from the company and limited
its access to scarce foreign exchange resources (para. 2.13 (a)); this reduced
the company's ability to replace and maintain capital equipment, and to
obtain other agricultural inputs, thereby negatively affecting agricultural
practices, infrastructure and factory capacity; and (b) loss of management
personnel and declining labor participation and increased unrest due, in part,
to low salaries and wages.
2.10        The strict salary and wage guidelines that were imposed on
parastatals and Government enterprises since the early 1980s have adversely
affected GUYSUCO's industrial relations, resulting in low rates of pay
intensified by inflation factors; weakness of bonus and incentive schemes; a
growing reluctance to perform strictly manual tasks; a shrinking workforce at
all levels; a management policy of not provoking the labor force, in the
interest of peace at the work place; inexperienced foremen and supervisors in
matters of labor relations; collapse of established procedures to resolve
disputes; Government's take-over of management's function to negotiate and
set rates of pay; and political opportunism by the trade unions.
2.11        At the field level, the use of fertilizers and agrochemicals was
curtailed and, in some areas, eliminated or could not be purchased and
applied at the right time to give maximum benefit to the crop. Land
replanting to cane, which, for best results, should be done every five years
on average, declined to a range of eight to fifteen years due to the lack of
land preparation equipment and declining labor force. This resulted in a
considerable decline in cane productivity. Because of the reduction in



-9 -
productivity and the consequent need to maintain all available land under
cultivation, the practice of "flood fallowing", which requires land to lie
flooded and fallow for 6-9 months to improve the structure of certain soils,
reduce the need for nitrogen fertilizer and assist with the control of weeds,
pests and disease while allowing planting to be done at the correct time, was
eliminated. Drainage, irrigation and field infrastructure also suffered. In the
period of expansion of production before the mid-1970s, infrastructure,
especially the drainage and irrigation pumps and the sluices to the sea, was
not increased correspondingly. Even when land was subsequently
abandoned, the drainage loads continued to be received by the unimproved
drainage systems. Compounding the problem, maintenance of the drains,
usually done by machine at the same time as fields were replanted, failed to
be carried out for lack of machines in good working order. This increased
the water table and also contributed to a reduction in productivity. For the
same reasons, the road systems into the estates have often been inadequately
repaired, hindering efforts to move the labor force to its work front. Other
good cultivation practices also were abandoned with the effect of delaying
regrowth of cane and increasing the fibre and trash content, hence reducing
the cane quality delivered to the factory. The overall effect of all these
factors was a deterioration of the sugar content of cane (polarization) from
11.2% in 1965 to 8.7% in 1990 and of the cane/sugar ratio from 10.9 in
1985 to 15.37 in 1989. Of the latter, 80% of the reduction was attributable
to the poorer quality of the cane delivered to the factories and only 20% to a
fall in factory performance (overall recovery).
2.12        At the factory level, a large proportion of the equipment was
in disrepair, inoperative or unreliable due to the lack of reinvestment and of
spare parts. The problems at factory level are revealed by the fact that
overall sugar recovery levels in Guyana had averaged 80% (sugar content in
sugar produced as a percentage of sugar content in cane). The average in
1990 was 72.5%. To illustrate the importance of this indicator, if overall
recovery had been 80% in 1990, the industry production would have been
143,000 tons sugar, rather than the 130,000 tons actually recorded. Despite
this indicator, the problems in the industry were mainly due to labor
shortages in the agricultural side of the operation. In effect, while stoppages
originating in factory causes have been fairly consistent at between 11 % and
16% of the net available grinding time over the last ten years (still excessive
when compared to the company's target of 5%), stoppages for "out-of-cane"
rose from 17.5 % to 25% of gross grinding time, and time lost because of
strikes rose from 3% to more than 7%. Overall, in 1990, factories were
grinding for a mean time of 74 hours per week, just 44% of the time the
factories were in crop. By intemational standards, net grinding time (for all
reasons) should not be less than 80%.



- 10-
2.13        Present Regulatory Framework. The present regulatory
framework in regard to foreign exchange retention, sugar levy, corporate tax
and sugar importation is as follows: (a) Foreign Exchange Retention.
GUYSUCO is one of the few companies in Guyana not allowed to retain its
foreign exchange earnings, beyond an agreed 17.5%, nor to access the
parallel free foreign exchange market. This has been one of the many
contributory reasons for the running down of the physical infrastructure of
GUYSUCO and the decapitalization of the industry over the past 10 years;
(b) Sugar Levy. The sugar levy is based on a formula which allows the
Government to retain 70% of the differential between the EEC preferential
price and a value equal to the world price of sugar plus 11.5%. While the
Government has frequently, in the past, rebated a proportion of the levy in
view of the bad financial situation of GUYSUCO, the levy has two problems.
First, the "world" price is influenced by well documented cases of dumping
and the thinness of the export markets; hence, the tax is higher than what it
would be if the world price was truly market determined, and the revenue
level is extremely volatile. Second, the formula itself has the perverse
financial effect on the company that when the "world market" price declines,
it increases the revenue to the Government, i.e, the tax on the company,
precisely at the time the revenue to the company is declining; (c) Corporate
Tax. The corporate tax in Guyana is presently 35% (GUYSUCO has not
paid corporate taxes so far, even though it is not legally exempted because of
the existing levy system); and (d) Sugar Importation. GUYSUCO has a
monopoly on the production, import and sale of sugar in the domestic
market, which has resulted in a relatively high price of domestic sugar,
compared to "world" parity prices.
2.14        Industry Reactivation Efforts Since 1990. In order to
redress the declining production trend of the industry, the Government sought
Booker's assistance in December 1989. As part of the agreement, the
Government signed, on October 1, 1990, a management contract with Booker
Tate (BT)V' to: (a) take over all day-to-day operations of GUYSUCO;
(b) prepare a feasibility study to rehabilitate and rationalize the industry; and
(c) take steps to identify private and official financing sources for the
investment program under the feasibility study. The contract, originally
scheduled to run until September 30, 1992 has been extended to
December 31, 1993.
h/    Booker Tate is an internationally known sugar management company operating
several sugar estates and mills worldwide. It is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Booker
Plc and Tate & Lyle.



- 11 -
2.15        Under the management contract, BT fielded a team to manage
the operations of GUYSUCO and also increased wages by over 200% from
1990 to 1992, to an average level of around US$3.25 per day. This reduced
labor unrest and resulted in the return of the labor force (personnel has
increased to about 27,600 by 1992 from about 24,200 in 1990, with the
increase coming primarily from cane harvesters and other field workers,
Annex 2, Table 1). With the arrival of a qualified management team,
agricultural and processing practices improved. An IDB loan for general
imports also eased the financial and foreign exchange constraint enabling a
small amount of investment. This, together with two years of good weather,
allowed BT to bring production to around 160,000 tons in 1991 from
130,000 tons in 1990, an increase of about 25% which allowed GUYSUCO
to meet the EEC quota for the first time in four years. Production reached
243,000 tons in 1992, near the expected optimal market for Guyana sugar of
about 250,000 tons4'. This production level has been sufficient for
GUYSUCO to meet all its yearly quota obligations to the EEC and USA
markets, 'catch-up' with the unfulfilled EEC and USA quotas, supply aU
domestic sugar requirements and export a balance of about 9,000 tons to the
Caribbean region or other world markets (Annex 2). However, sugar
production costs remain high at US$0.17/lb and both the BT feasibility study,
prepared as part of their contract with the Government, as well as
independent reports by sugar management consulting firms, concur that for
GUYSUCO to improve efficiency and reduce costs while reaching the
optimal production level or even maintaining, in the medium to long term,
present production levels would require a large investment program to
rehabilitate, rationalize and modernize the industry. Over a period of three
to four years, the cost of the incremental investment program has been
variously estimated at about US$100 million (Annex 2, Table 11). While
GUYSUCO's cash flow may be sufficient to fund such large investment, this
could only be done by drastically reducing the flow of foreign exchange and
budgetary resources to GOG. It is imperative, therefore, that GOG attract
private capital.
4/    There is a strong possibility, now under discussion, that beginning in July 1994,
Guyana may be allocated an additional EEC quota of about 28,000 tons to cover the
Portuguese market. This allocation would be part of a total additional quota for the
Caribbean countries of about 76,000 tons. Since some of the Caribbean countries are
not able to meet even their present EEC quotas, Guyana may get up to a total 42,000
tons additional allocation to the EEC. The price, expected to be set at the world
market price plus 15% of the normal EEC sugar price, would be lower than the
present EEC price, but still very favorable to Guyana.



- 12 -
Government Policies and Strategy In the Sugar Industry
2.16        The Government's main policy objective for the sugar industry
is to maximize its long-term financial profitability and technical productivity,
at a level of output, in the medium term, capable of efficiently meeting the
demands of the preferential export markets (EEC and US), of the domestic
market and of other potential regional Caribbean and world markets. At the
same time, the industry should provide reasonable levels of fiscal revenue
and foreign exchange to GOG. Because of the industry's strategic
importance, GOG was initially reluctant to privatize GUYSUCO, instead
deciding only to install private sector management as a first step towards
privatization. IDA has been working with GOG to help draw up a program
of restructuring and privatization that would overcome GOG's concems about
possible loss of foreign exchange earnings and fiscal resources, and receipt of
a "fair' price for an industry with strong long-term potential, all in the
context of a transparent and competitive system to privatize GUYSUCO.
2.17        The Government's intent to privatize GUYSUCO was further
buttressed by the large investment program required to set and maintain the
sugar industry in the desired, efficient long-term production path
(para. 2.15). On this basis and as agreed under the contract with the
Government, BT sought additional sources of financing in the form of debt
and equity from private investors and, on behalf of the Government,
approached IDA, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) to help put together a
financing package to support the investment program, restore the confidence
of private sector investors in the industry, and to provide an incentive for
their participation in the operation. The findings and recommendations which
emerged from the feasibility study undertaken by BT in 1990-1991, together
with an independent valuation analysis of GUYSUCO carried out by Price
Waterhouse (U.K.) on the recommendation of IDA, and IDA's own appraisal
(October 1991) of a proposed operation which would have helped to
simultaneously rehabilitate, rationalize and privatize GUYSUCO were the
basis of the negotiations with all the interested parties for the buy-out of
GUYSUCO. Following protracted discussions, negotiations with BT as the
lead investor of an interested consortium of private sector investors and CDC
broke off in July 1992 due to the lack of agreement between the Government
and BT on the buy-out value of GUYSUCO and the lack of an appropriate
financing package.
2.18        Following the October 1992 elections, the new Administration
has confirmed that the objectives for the sugar industry remain unchanged.
The commitment to restructure and privatize GUYSUCO has been spelled out



- 13 -
in the Government's "Privatization Policy and Framework Paper" (PPFP) of
June 1993, recently approved by the Cabinet. The overall objectives,
including privatization, are contained in the letter of policy submitted to IDA
(Annex 4). The Govemment's strategy is to develop a policy and regulatory
framework for the industry aimed at attracting private investors within an
efficient and competitive environment, while allowing appropriate
participation in the ownership of the company by the workers. In the context
of the above strategy, the immediate need for a minimal level of capital
investment in GUYSUCO to stabilize present levels of output would be
partially met by the immediate mobilization of funds under the proposed IDA
project. The project would also support the Government's efforts to privatize
and restructure GUYSUCO through the recruitment of independent financial
advisors, to be financed partially under an IDA-administered Japanese Grant
and partially under the IDA credit to ensure that the policy and regulatory
environment for the industry enhances its long-term sustainability and
provides a "fair price" for the Government at privatization. The Government
has accorded high priority to this project in its current development plan.
EDA Agricultural Strategy
2.19        The Bank Group's country assistance strategy for Guyana
seeks to support the Government's economic recovery efforts, of which the
privatization of public holdings, particularly in key productive sectors (which
require skilled management and major rehabilitation), is a critical element.
The proposed operation would provide direct support to the ownership
restructuring of the sugar industry, the country's main generator of foreign
exchange and budgetary resources, while helping stabilize present sugar
production levels. IDA's overall agricultural strategy is shaped by the
conclusions and recommendations of a recently concluded Agricultural Sector
Review (Report No. 10410-GUA, June 1, 1992) and by the results of an on-
going Public Sector Expenditure Review.
Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Lending
2.20        Experience with sugar industry rehabilitation projects in
several countries demonstrates that the subsector is faced with a number of
financial and institutional challenges. As in other commodity-oriented
projects, a sudden decline in sugar prices could make an entire project
uneconomic (Bangladesh Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification), but this is
unlikely here given that a large share of Guyana's sugar production is
marketed under quota agreements with the EEC and the US and the expected
improvement in efficiency once GUYSUCO is privatized and modernized.
The generally poor policy and managerial environment of state-owned



- 14 -
production and industrial facilities also contributes to the shortfall in project
performance (Jamaica Sugar Rehabilitation and Dominican Republic Sugar
Rehabilitation). Specifically, the general poor performance of prior sugar
industry projects financed by the Bank was due to fundamental weaknesses in
public sector management which resulted in delays in the installation of
machinery, equipment and spare parts financed with Bank funds,
mismanagement of factory and estate operations and the general lack of
proper maintenance, shortages of fertilizers and other inputs (related to
foreign exchange and credit constraints), poor agronomic practices and
inadequate price incentives to farmers. Recognizing these shortcomings, the
Bank's strategy in sugar related projects has been increasingly to support the
transfer of publicly-owned sugar industries to private management and
ownership, while limiting its financial involvement to a minimum during the
process.
2.21        The problems with implementation of IDA projects in Guyana
in the recent past have reflected the overall economic problems of the
country. In effect, implementation of IDA projects was negatively affected
by an unsupportive policy environment (until the end of 1989), a lack of
foreign exchange, insufficient counterpart funds and institutional shortfalls,
the latter partially due to the departure of many qualified Guyanese for
economic reasons, including low salaries. Some of these constraints remain
today as the country seeks to emerge from the economic crisis of the past
years. Any and all investment operations in the public sector will be faced
by such constraints. GUYSUCO, however, has been run since 1990 with a
certain degree of financial autonomy and in technical aspects as a de facto
private sector company by Booker Tate. The work of the management firm
has helped palliate the institutional weaknesses and the scarcity of well-
trained management staff in the country as demonstrated by the remarkable
recovery in output in 1991 and 1992. Their continued participation should
ensure a smooth transition to the privatization of GUYSUCO.



- 15 -
3. THE PROJECT
Introduction
3.1         The findings and recommendations which emerged from the
feasibility study undertaken by BT in 1990-91 were jointly reviewed with the
Government by an IDA mission and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) and BT (both as managers of GUYSUCO and as
potential investors) in October 1991, during the appraisal of the project.
Following unsuccessful negotiations for the buy-out of the sugar industry
with a BT-led consortium of potential investorsl' (para. 2.17), an IDA
follow-up mission visited Guyana in November 1992 and agreed with the
new Government (appointed following the October 1992 elections) on the
need to provide a minimal amount of funds for urgently required equipment
and machinery to stabilize prevailing production levels. IDA also agreed to
assist GOG to: (a) develop a regulatory framework for the sugar industry;
and (b) seek additional private sector investors to finance the overall
rehabilitation and rationalization program and change the ownership structure
of GUYSUCO. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during April
and July, 1993. The delegation of Guyana was led by the Honorable
Asgar Ally, Minister of Finance.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.2         Improving the efficiency of the sugar industry is vital to the
country's economy because of its effects on balance of payments, fiscal
revenue and employment. IDA's involvement in the operation would:
(a) ensure that these macroeconomic considerations are taken into account
and that privatization and policy changes (for example, on foreign exchange,
sugar levy, etc.) are done in such a way that they do not adversely affect
balance of payments or fiscal revenues; and (b) help privatize GUYSUCO in
a fair and transparent way and restructure the industry's ownership to
encompass the participation of workers through an Employee Stock
Ownership Program (ESOP). IDA's participation would also help restore the
confidence of the private sector in investing in Guyana and facilitate its
involvement in the sugar industry, on a long-term basis, by ensuring the
S/    The consortium included CDC. IFC was also interested as potential investor and
creditor, but did not participate in the negotiations. IDA funds would have been also
included as part of the financing package to partially finance the overall rehabilitation
and rationalization of GUYSUCO.



- 16 -
establishment of a sound sugar policy framework and regulatory system
(sugar levy, foreign exchange retention, corporate taxes) which have
macroeconomic effects, as well as implications for the financial viability of
the sugar industry.
Objectives and Description
3.3         The key objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) help
secure GUYSUCO's present level of production and financial viability
through a minimal two-year capital investment program for urgently needed
equipment and machinery to help GUYSUCO meet its basic capital and
maintenance requirements; and (b) ensure the long-term technical and
financial viability of the sugar industry by, inter alia, helping the Government
restructure and privatize GUYSUCO under an agreed regulatory framework
which ensures private sector participation within an efficient and competitive
environment, while safeguarding reasonable government revenues, under an
appropriate fiscal regime. The newly restructured company or companies
would be expected to undertake an investment program to rehabilitate,
rationalize and modernize GUYSUCO, aimed at improving the long-term
efficiency of the sugar industry and ensuring its long-term technical and
financial viability. To reach these objectives, the proposed project would
comprise two major components: (a) capital investment in priority operating
factory equipment and machinery over a two-year period to stabilize sugar
production at the present 240,000 tons (US$14.0 million equivalent or 93%
of credit funds); and (b) technical assistance, involving contracts for financial
advisory services, to help GOG restructure and privatize GUYSUCO, while
allowing participation in the ownership of the company by the workers. The
financial advisors would also help establish the policy and regulatory
framework for the industry, particularly in regard to the level of the sugar
levy, foreign exchange retention, sugar import policy and land tenure
(US$1.0 million equivalent or 7% of credit funds). They would also make
recommendations to GOG on the most appropriate company structure for
privatization. The main features of these components are described below.
3.4         Under the project, sugar production is expected to stabilize at
about 240,000 tons, based on the parameters shown below (see also
Annex 1).



- 17 -
Cape and Suitr Productionl
Actual     AcUal      Actual      Egt
1222       12   19             93
Aea of cane harvesed  ('000 acres)   84         86          92         94
Amount of cane milled  ('000 tons)  1,8S5     2,124       2,863      2,942
Cane yield (tons cane/acres harvesed)  22.32    24.58       31.06      31.42
Estate sugr production ('000 tons)  122         149        227        224
Farmer contribution  ('000 tons)      S          11         16         18
Sugar yield   (tons sugar/acre)       1.44       1.77       2.46       2.40
Cane/sugar rtio   (1C/TS)            15.45       14.29      12.62      13.11
Molasues production  ('000 tons)     75         87         119        112
Capital Investment Component
3.5           As a short-term objective, while the process of restructuring
and privatization is undertaken, it is imperative that production be stabilized
thereby enabling GUYSUCO to meet the EEC and US quotas. Accordingly,
the project would provide about US$14.0 million equivalent, to finance a
proportion (about 51%) of GUYSUCO's 1993-94 essential foreign exchange
capital budget expenditure, estimated at about US$27.5 million, on the basis
of the 1993 budget, to stabilize production of sugar at the levels reached in
1992 (Annex 1, Table 2). The equipment and machinery to be financed
under the project would replace key factory items that are old and unreliable
and well past their economic life throughout GUYSUCO's eight factories.
The proposed investment would provide for the normal maintenance and
replacement of equipment; it does not provide for expansion or
modernization of the factories. In the second half of 1993, the proposed
project would finance the following equipment, amounting to US$2.0 million,
or 7% of the proposed capital investment budget of GUYSUCO: (a) a
battery of three (3) fully automatic high grade centrifugals for Blairmont
factory (US$0.5 million equivalent); (b) a 2.5 mw Turbo-Alternator Set for
Skeldon factory (US$1.4 million equivalent); and (c) parts for the
rehabilitation and transfer of the Skeldon 1 mw Allen Turbo-Alternator Set to
Wales factory (US$0.1 million equivalent) (Annex 1, Table 3).
3.6           Additional factory capital requirements to be financed under
the project in 1994 would likely include three (3) additional 2.5 mw Turbo
Alternator sets for Albion, Blairmont and Enmore, a 750 kw high-speed Cat
Diesel alternator for Albion and the replacement of obsolete mill and knife
turbines also in Albion. The final requirements for IDA funds for 1994 and



- 18 -
early 1995 would be determined annually on the basis of priorities to be
agreed with the Government and GUYSUCO as part of the annual capital
budgeting exercise and in view of the state of the equipment and machinery
at that time. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government and GUYSUCO would furnish to IDA an annual capital budget
for GUYSUCO, including a specific list of equipment, machinery and spare
parts to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit, and an annual operating
budget for GUYSUCO, both for the upcoming calendar year and providing
for amounts sufficient, in IDA's opinion, to implement the component and to
cover GUYSUCO's normal operating costs, including the required foreign
exchange. Agreement on the annual budget, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of IDA disbursements (para. 4.1 (a)).
Technical Assistance Component
3.7         Fmancial Advisory Services. The project would provide
US$1.0 million equivalent (about 2% of total project costs) to contract
financial advisors to assist the Government in restructuring and privatizing
GUYSUCO. The work of the advisors would be divided into two phases. In
the frst phase, they would: (a) provide recommendations to restructure the
sugar industry and develop a strategy for its privatization in full or by
breaking it up into several packages, including the capital share of
GUYSUCO to be offered for sale; (b) carry out a benchmark valuation of
GUYSUCO; (c) prepare an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP);
(d) recommend a regulatory framework for the industry (para. 3.9-3.10) and
advise on issues that would impinge on the future viability of the sugar
industry. These issues are likely to include, inter alia: (i) leasing by
Government of access to the preferential sugar markets in the form of sugar
levies; (ii) access to foreign exchange; (iii) land and water use and
ownership/lease; (iv) corporate taxes; (v) labor relations; (vi) cane payment
formula; and (vii) sugar importation policy and local sugar prices. In the
second phase of their work, the advisors would: (a) assist in implementing
the ESOP; (b) prepare all necessary materials for the implementation of the
restructuring and privatization strategy adopted for the industry; (c) develop
criteria for the assessment of proposals from private placement offerings;
(d) prepare a promotional strategy and campaign for public offerings; and
(e) assist the Government during negotiations with prospective investors.
The advisory assignment is expected to require about 100 staffweeks,
including a limited number of medium-term coordinators/program managers
and short-term consultants (financial analysts, valuers, accountants and
lawyers). The above financial advisors would be contracted by December
31, 1993, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (Annex 3). Some of
the initial expenditures would be partially financed under an IDA-



- 19 -
administered Japanese Project Preparation Grant. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would: (a) contract the financial
advisors, whose selection would be satisfactory to IDA, by December 31,
1993, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (b) provide all the
support required by the consultants to complete phase one, including a
regulatory framework, by July 31, 1994, and the second phase by October
31, 1994; (c) submit to IDA the proposed regulatory framework, including
the elimination of sugar import restrictions by July 31, 1994 and issue a
regulatory framework or submit proposals to Parliament, satisfactory to IDA,
by September 15, 1994. In case of proposals submitted to Parliament, these
would have to be decided by October 31, 1994; and (d) take all action
necessary or advisable by March 31, 1995 to privatize GUYSUCO
(para. 4.1 (b)).
3.8         Management Services. The management role of BT during
project implementation would continue to involve the day-to-day management
of the company, including the formulation of operational plans covering the
technical, human resource, financial and commercial aspects of the
company's activities to ensure the optimal operation of the sugar industry.
GUYSUCO comprises about 27,600 staff and workers and the management
team includes a chief executive and 24 other specialists covering all aspects
of the operation of GUYSUCO (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2). During 1993,
and as GUYSUCO's situation stabilizes, 7 of the 24 specialists are expected
to be withdrawn. The chief executive assumes overall responsibility for
GUYSUCO in accordance with the existing acceptable job description and is
responsible to the Board of Directors of GUYSUCO. BT would retain final
responsibility for the performance of the management team. The present
contract between the Government and BT expires on December 31, 1993. In
order to maintain effective management, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, by October 31, 1993, the Government would enter into a
new contract with an external, professionally qualified management team,
satisfactory to IDA, or would extend the contract of the present management
firm, to run GUYSUCO through the life of the project or until the conclusion
of the privatization process, at which time, the new Board of Directors would
make a decision on this matter. The management team would be financed by
GUYSUCO but under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.1 (c)).
The New Regulatory Framework
3.9         To create the incentive environment that would be conducive
to restructuring and privatizing GUYSUCO while preserving adequate foreign
exchange earnings and fiscal revenues for the Government, and to provide



- 20 -
protection to domestic consumers of sugar, the present regulatory framework
(para. 2.3) should be changed. An appropriate set of regulations would be
based on the following principles: (a) no foreign exchange restrictions;
(b) a flat sugar levy, based on a percentage of the EEC preferential price,
possibly 10%0. This levy level would guarantee annual revenues to GOG
estimated in present conditions at about US$9-10 million, from a transparent
and easily identifiable source (this compares with levy revenues of about
US$25.0 million in 1992, but does not include the up-front lump sum co-
payment GOG would receive for the privatization of GUYSUCO);
(c) retention of the 35% corporate tax; and (d) elimination of GUYSUCO's
monopoly in regard to domestic importation and sales of sugar in Guyana.
3.10        Under the proposed project, the financial advisors would
review the present regulatory framework of the sugar industry
(para. 3.7 (c) (i-vii)), and with due regard to the principles above, propose to
the Government alternatives for the level of the levy, as well as on the timing
to liberalize domestic imports and sales of sugar in Guyana. The proposals
would be based on detailed quantitative and qualitative analysis of the effects
of the different alternatives, principally on foreign exchange eamings and
fiscal revenues to the Government. This initial preferred policy framework
would then serve as the basis for negotiations with interested investors (refer
to footnote 6). Because of the important macroeconomic impact of the future
regulatory framework, IDA would be closely involved with the financial
advisors and the Govemment during the process of preparing the final
regulatory framework (para. 3.7).
6/    From a financial perspective, the Government and the potential investors would be
indifferent to the level of the levy, since the value of the company would be modified
by an equal [discounted] amount. For instance, reducing the levy, i.e., increasing
future cash flow income of GUYSUCO, would increase the up-front [discounted net
present] value of the company and this would be reflected, in principle, in an increase
in the price of the shares to be sold by the Government to the future investors. And
conversely in the case of an increase in the level of the levy. However, because of
the time variable, there are elements of risk attached to the value of levy versus the
net present value of the company which may be perceived differently by each party,
and which could affect the choice of alternatives. These, however, cannot be
quantified in advance of the negotiations.



-21 -
Cost and Financing
3.11        For the purposes of the proposed project, total costs are
defined as GUYSUCO's expected fixed capital requirements in its existing
eight estates/sugar mills and headquarters for normal replacement of vehicles,
machinery, equipment and field infrastructure over the 1993-95 period plus
the cost of the financial advisors to be hired under the project. The costs
have been estimated at US$40.5 million equivalent based on GUYSUCO's
1993 and expected 1994 capital budget (Annex 1, Table 2). The direct
foreign exchange component is about US$28.5 million or 70% of project
costs. Some of the capital expenditure proposed under the project could be
incorporated as part of the long-term investment program. No allowances
have been made for price or physical contingencies.
3.12        An IDA credit of US$15.0 million equivalent is proposed,
which would finance 53% of the foreign exchange component of the project
or 37% of total project costs. The balance of financing requirements would
come from: (a) GUYSUCO's internally generated cash from operations,
US$20.6 million equivalent (51% of total project costs), of which
US$8.6 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange and
US$12.0 million equivalent in domestic currency; (b) foreign suppliers,
US$1.9 million equivalent (5 % of total project costs); and (c) an expected
CDB loan, US$3.0 million equivalent (7% of total costs). The IDA credit
would be made available to the Republic of Guyana which, in turn, would
on-lend US$14.0 million equivalent of the credit proceeds to GUYSUCO in
dollars at LIBOR plus two percentage points over 10 years, including a grace
period of 3 years. GUYSUCO would bear the foreign exchange and cross-
currency risks. GUYSUCO would use the proceeds of the IDA credit to
cover the costs of imported machinery and equipment for GUYSUCO's
factory operations. GUYSUCO would cover the costs of maintenance,
including insurance for the machinery and equipment and the cost of the
management team, as well as all the other required capital and recurrent
costs (paras. 3.6 and 3.8). The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the remaining US$1.0 million equivalent, corresponding to
the cost of consulting services. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Borrower would sign with GUYSUCO a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, reflecting, inter alia, the terms and conditions for the on-
lending of IDA funds (para. 4.2).
Procurement
3.13        Procurement procedures in the country have been reviewed by
IDA and found generally acceptable and not in conflict with IDA



- 22 -
procurement policies and guidelines. Booker Tate, the consulting firm
presently managing GUYSUCO has ample experience in international
procurement. Contracts for machinery and equipment estimated to cost more
than US$500,000 equivalent and expected to involve in the aggregate about
US$19.0 million or 57% of total machinery and equipment costs would be
procured following ICB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Of these, IDA is
expected to finance about US$10.5 million. Individual contracts for
machinery and equipment, vehicles, goods and services estimated to cost
between US$100,000 to US$500,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of
US$11.1 million (of which IDA would finance up to US$3.5 million) may be
awarded on the basis of limited international bidding. In view of the need to
maintain standardization with existing machinery and equipment in
GUYSUCO in order to reduce the need for excessive inventories of spare
parts, maintenance standards and workers retraining, contracts for
miscellaneous equipment and spare parts valued at US$100,000 equivalent or
less, in the aggregate not to exceed US$2.0 million equivalent would be
procured under international shopping or by direct negotiation in cases of
proprietary components/spares. International shopping would require,
whenever appropriate, comparison of at least three responsive price
quotations from suppliers/contractors from at least three eligible countries.
IDA would not finance the rehabilitation of support buildings or other minor
civil works, estimated to cost in the aggregate about US$3.0 million over the
life of the project (Annex 1, Table 5). Prior review by IDA would be
required for all contracts valued at US$100,000 equivalent or above and for
all directly negotiated contracts above US$50,000 equivalent. For contracts
below these limits, IDA would review on a selective basis the documentation
during project supervision. Consultants. The financial advisors (para. 3.7)
would be recruited in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers." The contract with the firm
managing GUYSUCO would not be financed with credit proceeds.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GUYSUCO would follow
these procurement procedures (para. 4.1 (d)).
Disbursement
3.14        The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of three
years to take into consideration the special disbursement characteristics of the
proposed credit. IDA would disburse 100% against foreign exchange
expenditures for vehicles, machinery, equipment and spare parts, and
financial advisory fees (Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7). Disbursements for all
contracts for goods or services would require full documentation in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The credit closing date would be
June 30, 1997. IDA would deposit an initial US$1.5 million in the Special



- 23 -
Account to be established in the Central Bank upon receipt and approval of
the withdrawal applications. Subsequent replenishments by IDA into the
Special Account would follow normal procedures.
Accounts and Audits
3.15        GUYSUCO's financial statements have been audited heretofore
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits have been presented
on time and without qualifications. Under the project, separate accounts
would be kept for all expenditures under the project, which, together with
GUYSUCO's own accounts and the Special Account, would be audited
annually. GUYSUCO would maintain separate accounts for the capital
investment. The subsidiary agreement to be signed between the Borrower
and GUYSUCO would provide for GUYSUCO to submit to IDA:
(i) necessary data and information on the project and its operating results and
financial position through quarterly progress reports, submitted 60 days after
the completion of the quarter beginning February 28, 1994 for the quarter
ending December 31, 1993; and (ii) not later than six months after the close
of its fiscal year, starting with the audit report for the year ending
December 31, 1993, GUYSUCO's annual audited financial statements, and
such other information as IDA might reasonably request (para. 4.2). The
Ministry of Finance, which would maintain separate accounts for the
technical assistance component, would coordinate the submission, no later
than six months after the close of its fiscal year, starting with the audit report
for the year ending December 31, 1993, of an audit report on all project
accounts. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
(para. 4.1 (e)).
Management, Implementation and Monitoring
3.16        The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. The day-to-day management of the capital
investment component of the project would be handled by GUYSUCO using
BT's services. The financial advisors would be supervised by the
Privatization Unit under the overall guidance of the Privatization Board,
established pursuant to the Government's 'Privatization Policy Framework
Paper' of June 1993. Its main responsibility would be to review the findings
and recommendations of the financial advisors to be engaged under the
project, formulate proposals for the restructuring of GUYSUCO and be
responsible for implementing them thereafter. The Government provided
assurances at negotiations that: (a) the Privatization Unit, in a composition,
form and with responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, would be established by
no later than November 30, 1993; (b) the Privatization Board, through the



- 24 -
Privatization Unit, would keep IDA informed of the progress of the financial
advisors' work and of the privatization process through the submission of a
quarterly progress report, starting January 31, 1994, for the quarter ending
December 31, 1993; (c) GUYSUCO would submit to IDA quarterly progress
reports as indicated in para. 3.15; and (d) a mid-term review of the project
would be carried out at the time the regulatory framework for the industry is
agreed upon (September 15, 1994), which would also review overall progress
in the privatization process, confirm the steps in the second phase of the
financial advisors' work and agree on a capital share of GUYSUCO,
satisfactory to IDA, to be offered for sale for the privatization of GUYSUCO
(paras. 3.7 and 4.1 (f)).
Financial and Economic Justification
3.17        GUYSUCO's Financial Performance (1990-92). The overall
performance of GUYSUCO improved considerably during the last two years
(1991 and 1992), as shown in the key financial indicators in Annex 2,
Table 10. Operating profit (before levy and tax) was about G$ 5.0 billion in
1992 versus G$ 1.0 billion in 1990 and G$ 4.8 billion in 1991. Net income
amounted to G$ 35.7 million and G$ 44.4 million in 1990 and 1991,
respectively. This represents a return on assets of 1.5% and 0.5%,
respectively. Government net revenue from the sugar levy (applying the
agreed formula in para. 2.13 minus rebates) was G$ 711 million and
G$ 4,264 million in 1990 and 1991, respectively (Annex 2, Table 9). Net
1992 Government revenue from the sugar levy is expected to be G$ 3,000
million in 1992 (about US$25 million), allowing GUYSUCO to retain about
G$ 2,500 million (before taxes). While still inadequate to attract private
sector investors, the 1992 results provide a higher return on assets to
GUYSUCO (about 18.5%) and permit a level of capital investment in 1993
under the project adequate to maintain present sugar production levels.
3.18        GUYSUCO's Projected Financial Performance and Rate of
Return. Under the proposed project, GUYSUCO's operating profit before
levy and tax is expected to amount to G$ 3.6 billion and G$ 2.3 billion in
1993 and 1994, respectively (Annex 2, Tables 11 and 12). The decline in
operating profits, compared to 1992, is due to the latter having been an
extraordinary year in terms of sales to the EEC, as GUYSUCO was allowed
to "catch up" with some of the unfulfilled quota of previous years. On the
basis of the agreed formula, the sugar levy would be expected to result in
Government revenues of about G$ 6.6 billion and G$ 6.3 billion in 1993 and
1994, respectively, which is clearly unsustainable (Annex 2, Table 13). On
the basis of previous years' experience, the rebate on the levy is expected to



- 25 -
be in the order of G$ 3.3 billion and G$ 3.1 billion, respectively (Annex 2,
Table 13). The final rebate would be agreed during the year, as the results
of operations are confirmed, and in view of the Government's revenue needs
and proposed capital budget requirements for the ensuing year (para 3.12).
3.19        Beyond 1994, there are two realistic financial scenarios. The
first assumes that privatization effort fails and GUYSUCO remains in the
hands of the public sector. This is the "no-modernization" scenario. The
second, or "modernization" scenario assumes that GUYSUCO is privatized
during 1994 and the new owners undertake the investment program required
for its modernization (Annex 2).
3.20        Under the "no-modernization" scenario, the 1992 production
level of 240,000 tons would be maintained in 1993 and 1994. However,
starting in 1995, with negative cumulative cash generation allowing no
further expansion and modernization, GUYSUCO would operate under
increasingly difficult constraints, which would affect agricultural yields, areas
under cane, and overall sugar recovery at the factories. The impact of these
factors on production is difficult to quantify but deterioration would tend to
accelerate because strategic and critical spares and replacements would fail to
materialize, decreasing production, which would lead directly to a reduction
in foreign exchange earnings. GUYSUCO would operate at a lower level of
200,000 tons starting in 1995, and would accumulate losses, resulting in the
erosion of its equity base starting in 1997.
3.21        Under the "modernization" scenario, GUYSUCO, now a
majority private sector owned firm, would initiate a modernization and
rationalization program in 1995, under the regulatory framework described in
para. 3.9. GUYSUCO would operate at 250,000 tons of sugar by 1995,
versus 240,000 tons in 1994. Operating costs would decline by about 31%
over the 1994 level of US$93.0 million to US$71.1 million as a result of the
modernization and rationalization program. With high production and sales,
the company's profitability would be satisfactory, with net income of over
10% of sales and of average equity. Cash generation is forecast to be
positive. The debt/equity ratio would remain well below 1:1, and financial
liquidity would improve considerably, with current ratio increasing from
0.8:1 in 1995 to 2.2:1 in 1999. Debt service coverage would be very
satisfactory at 3.6:1 and 8.6:1 during the same period. The incremented
financial rate of return on the investment under the modernization program is
calculated at about 39%. The IRR to equity investors at a 20% payout ratio
is estimated at 17%.



- 26 -
3.22        Assuming that sugar prices settle from 1995 onwards to the
level of world sugar prices forecast in the absence of preferential markets
(averaging US$0. 19/lb) as a proxy for the economic value of sugar, and
assuming that the economic prices and costs of the remaining inputs and
outputs are similar to their financial values (not an unreasonable assumption
given the open nature of the Guyana economy), the "modernization" scenario
provides a satisfactory incremental economic rate of return of about 12%.
This rate would also provide a lower boundary for the incremental financial
rate of return.
Environmental Impact
3.23        The situation in regard to insecticide and herbicide use at field
level is satisfactory in that they are used in small quantities, and biological
methods of pest control are under development. GUYSUCO has an adequate
Sanitation Policy for Estate houses and it has under consideration proposals
for a "Policy and Programme in Respect of the Health Services in the Sugar
Industry' emphasizing prevention of waterbome diseases (a reorientation of
the previous exclusive treatment approach) and covering evaluation of work
sites and the handling of toxic materials, pre-employment and periodic
medical examinations, nutrition, provision of a Medical Board, Community
Health and screening of workers children, Treatment services, Health
Education, Employee Assistance programmes, and Training courses. Once
this program is in place, the health conditions, already among the best in the
country, should be more than adequate. Despite the best efforts of
GUYSUCO's management, the use at present of outdated, inefficient and
unreliable machinery and equipment by GUYSUCO, the lack of financial
resources available to the company to modernize and rehabilitate its capital
stock and the lack of national standards has resulted in insufficient effluent
treatment and excessive fuel oil usage (due also to insufficient bagasse).
3.24        Under the original project proposal which included a broad
program of rehabilitation, rationalization and modernization of the sugar
industry (para. 2.17) and with the advice of IDA's and CDC's environmental
experts, Booker Tate initiated the preparation of a program for the reduction
and treatment of effluents as part of the overall investment program. Efforts
were to be intensified, particularly in regard to controlling effluent treatment,
through a two-step approach of lagooning followed by conventional aerated
biological processes and reduction of fuel oil usage through the improvement
in the operation of boilers throughout the eight factories which would result
in an increased availability of clean steam energy and a considerable
reduction in the use of fuel oil. Hence, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) terms of reference, satisfactory to IDA, for an updated



- 27 -
Environment Assessment (EA) would be prepared by December 31, 1993;
the EA, including the review of possible contingent liabilities of GUYSUCO
for environmental issues, would be carried out by May 31, 1994, in a
manner satisfactory to IDA, and appropriate mitigatory measures would be
implemented thereafter; (b) the "Policy & Programme in Respect of the
Health Services in the Sugar Industry" would be completed and submitted to
IDA by October 1993 and subsequently implemented; and (c) GUYSUCO
would implement the mitigatory measures that may be agreed in the EA
(para. 4.1 (g)).
Benefits and Risks
3.25        Benefits. The main benefit of the limited investment program
proposed under the project would be to help GUYSUCO secure its present
level of sugar production and stabilize the operation of the sugar industry in
the short to medium term, while preparing the grounds for restructuring and
privatization. It would also help the industry continue to provide GOG with
crucial foreign exchange earnings and fiscal resources, while anchoring GOG
efforts to improve the long-term efficiency and sustainability of the sugar
industry (and therefore boosting in the long term, Government fiscal revenues
and foreign exchange earnings). This would be achieved by changing
GUYSUCO's ownership structure and attracting financing from the private
sector and, possibly, multi and bilateral financial institutions, with workers
and, possibly, a small GOG participation. Under the new structure,
GUYSUCO would be expected to undertake a major rehabilitation,
rationalization and modernization investment program to improve efficiency
and increase sugar production to about 250,000 tons per annum. The
increased efficiency would permit the Government to retain adequate levels
of foreign exchange and fiscal flows while allowing GUYSUCO to maintain a
profitability level high enough to sustain the private sector's interest in the
industry. The project would also help improve the standard of living for the
approximately 27,000 workers of GUYSUCO, or about 10% of the active
population of the country, some of whom, particularly unskilled labor and
women, rank among the most poorly paid wage earners in Guyana. The
broadly defined project would also have indirect effects on poverty by
permitting more adequate financing of poverty-oriented, education and
nutrition programs which otherwise would have difficulty obtaining
counterpart financing.
3.26        Risks. Implementation of the proposed project comprises few
risks in that it has a simple design. Perhaps the major risk is that the
proposed limited investment program may prove insufficient to stabilize
production in the short run if a major break-down or failure of factory



- 28 -
machinery and equipment, agricultural field equipment or field infrastructure
occurs during the next two years. To minimize this risk, IDA would allow
acceleration of disbursements under the proposed credit. The major long-
term risks facing the future of GUYSUCO, which could not only adversely
affect the probability of improving the long-term efficient sustainability of the
sugar industry, but could seriously undermine the probability of the
industry's survival are: (a) a slowdown in implementing GUYSUCO's
ownership restructuring and privatization and hence in carrying out the
overall rehabilitation and rationalization investment program; and
(b) a decline in world sugar price levels and a reduction of quotas and prices
from the preferential sugar markets in the EEC and the USA. Related to
both risks is the risk that Government fiscal revenues and foreign exchange
earnings may drop substantially below past levels. Under the project, these
long-term risks would be reduced by: (a) creating an appropriate enabling
environment for investment in the sugar industry, aimed at promoting the
mobilization of adequate private sector resources; (b) the low dependency of
GUYSUCO revenues on world sugar market; (c) the unlikely reduction in the
volume of EEC and USA preferential quotas to Guyana (the Sugar
Agreement does not run out until 1996; Guyana may even be allocated a
higher EEC quota to cover the Portuguese market); and (d) unlikely negative
effects on GUYSUCO's profitability of even a drastic reduction of
preferential quota prices, provided the industry has been able to undertake the
large scale rehabilitation and rationalization investment program it requires.
World sugar prices, in the absence of preferential markets, would be
expected to settle at a level of US$0.15-0.20/lb; the effect of such a price
level on GUYSUCO's profitability would be well within the bounds of
acceptable commercial and financial risks.



- 29 -
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1         During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Borrower that:
(a)   the Government and GUYSUCO would agree with IDA by
December 31 of each year starting on December 31, 1993, on
the annual capital budget and the specific list of equipment to
be financed by IDA during the following year and that
GUYSUCO would be allowed to retain enough funds and
foreign exchange to provide the required counterpart funds for
the investment program under the project and their normal
capital and operating costs (para. 3.6);
(b)  the Government would: (i) contract the financial advisors,
whose selection would be satisfactory to IDA, by
December 31, 1993, under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA; (ii) provide all the support required to ensure that the
consultants complete the first phase of their work, including a
regulatory framework by July 31, 1994 and the second phase
by October 31, 1994; (iii) submit to IDA the proposed
regulatory framework, including the elimination of the sugar
import restrictions, by July 31, 1994, and issue a regulatory
framework or submit proposals to Parliament, satisfactory to
IDA, by September 15, 1994; and (iv) take all action necessary
or advisable by March 31, 1995 to privatize GUYSUCO
(para. 3.7);
(c)  it would enter into a new management contract, or extend the
actual one, by October 31, 1993, to have GUYSUCO managed
by a professionally qualified team, satisfactory to IDA, for the
duration of the project or until the conclusion of the
privatization process (para. 3.8);
(d)   GUYSUCO would follow the agreed procurement procedures
(para. 3.13);



- 30 -
(e)   the Ministry of Finance would coordinate the submission, no
later than six months after the close of its fiscal year, starting
with the audit report for the year ending December 31, 1993,
of an audit report on all project accounts (para. 3.15);
(f)   (i) the Borrower's Privatization Unit in a form, composition
and with responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, would be
established by November 30, 1993; (ii) the Privatization Board
through the Privatization Unit would submit to IDA quarterly
progress reports of the financial advisors' work and of the
privatization process, starting January 31, 1994 for the quarter
ending December 31, 1993; (iii) GUYSUCO would submit
quarterly progress reports on project implementation and the
overall status of its operations, starting November 15, 1993 for
the quarter ending September 30, 1993; and (iv) a mid-term
review of the project would take place by September 15, 1994
to inter alia, agree on a capital share of GUYSUCO,
satisfactory to IDA, to be offered for sale for the privatization
of GUYSUCO (para. 3.16); and
(g)   concerning the environmental impact: (i) terms of reference
for the EA, satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared by
December 31, 1993 and the EA, including the review of
possible contingent liabilities of GUYSUCO for environmental
issues, would be carried out by May 31, 1994 in a manner
satisfactory to IDA; (ii) GUYSUCO's proposed 'Policy and
Programme in respect of the Health Services in the Sugar
Industry" would be completed and submitted to IDA by
October 1993 and subsequently implemented; and
(iii) GUYSUCO would implement the appropriate mitigatory
measures that may be agreed in the EA (para. 3.24).
4.2         As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower would sign with
GUYSUCO a subsidiary loan agreement, reflecting, inter alia, the terms and
conditions for on-lending IDA funds to GUYSUCO, all satisfactory to IDA,
and which would also provide for GUYSUCO to submit to IDA:
(i) necessary data and information on the project and its operating results and
financial position through quarterly progress reports, submitted 60 days after
the completion of the quarter beginning February 28, 1994 for the quarter
ending December 31, 1993; and (ii) no later than six months after the close
of its fiscal year, starting with the audit report for the year ending December
31, 1993, GUYSUCO's annual audited financial statements (paras. 3.12 and
3.15).



- 31 -
4.3          Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
an IDA credit to the Republic of Guyana for SDR 10.9 million (US$15.0
million equivalent). The terms would be standard, with 40 years maturity.
C:\wpSl\Guyana\Maintext.sar
Augut 27, 1993



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Detailed Features of the Project
1.          This annex has three parts: the first part provides a brief
description of the overall field and factory structure of the sugar industry to
provide the setting for the proposed project; the second part summarizes the
overall status of GUYSUCO's present physical capital, which provide the
basis for the capital investment component of the project, including its 1993
capital budget; and the third part summarizes the administration of the
financial advisory service under the technical assistance component of the
project.
A. THE SUGAR INDUSTRY'S OVERALL OPERATIONAL
STRUCTURE
2.          The sugar industry currently involves eight sugar estates and
factories--four in Berbice and four in Demerara. The gross area of the
estates total about 122,000 acres. In addition to the estate land, about 2,180
private cane growers hold some 11,700 acres of cane, either individually or
as cooperative groups. The heavy soils, topography and lack of a convenient
source of road building materials do not allow conventional road transport,
and a water-borne cane transport system has been developed. The structure
of cane cultivation by estate in 1991 and 1992 is shown in Table 1 of this
Annex. Below is the projected structure of production for 1993.



- 33 -
Projected Cane Area and Sugar Production 1993
Maximum Area         Area         Cane      Sugar
for Cultivation   Harvested    Production  Production
Estate            (Acres)        (Acres)       (rons)    (Tons)
Berbice
Skeldon            11,867         10,482        351,102     26,823
Albion             19,907         18,272       601,374     49,288
Rose Hall         15,731          14,464       438,228     35,259
Blairmnont         13.488         11502       421.045     32.485
Subtotal          60.993          54.719      1.811.479    143.855
Demerara
Enmore             12,992          9,408       278,350     17,555
LBIlDiamnond      23,013          12,571       365,240     25,870
Wales              8,830          7,121        213,630     15,942
Uitvlugt          16.171          9.82         272.832     21L232
Subtotal          61.006          38L921      L130.032      80.599
Estate
Total            121,999         93,640      2,941,801    224,454
Farmer Contribution               9.028       241.271     18.128
Industry Total                  102,668      3,183,092    242,582
Cane Yield (tc/a)   31.42
Sugar Yield (ts/a)    2.40
Cane/Sugar Ratio (tc/ts) 13.11
Source: Annex 1, Table 1
Physical Environment and Layout
3.             Climate. The prevailing climate presents a number of
problems to cane cultivation in Guyana. Mean annual precipitation increases
westward from 66.11 in at Skeldon to 103.12 in at Uitvlugt. Rainfall peaks
occur in June and December so that the harvesting periods are concentrated
in the drier months, February - April (the "Spring" Crop) and August -
November (the "Autumn" Crop). However, the occurrence of dry weather is
unreliable and considerable precipitation can take place during the harvests.
The unreliability of the rainfall pattern causes the commencement and



- 34 -
termination of harvest periods to vary from year to year; it also can cause
severe dislocation of both harvesting and husbandry practices, particularly
mechanical tillage. At other times, this can lead to serious drought
conditions which cause significant irrigation demands in some years.
Maximum and minimum daily temperatures show little variation and average
around 85 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, respectively. Temperatures low
enough to influence cane ripening do not occur. Insolation averages some
2,600 hours sunshine per annum with a mean monthly variation between 183
hours in June to 268 hours in October.
4.          Soils. The differing soil types occupying the sugar estates are
generally found as narrow strips of land running parallel to the shore line and
extending for long distances of between 10 and 40 miles. The frontlands,
only a few miles wide in Demerara but some 10 miles wide in Berbice,
comprise alluvial clays of marine origin. The backlands are mostly thick
acid peat (pegasse) deposits, encountered within six miles of the coast
between the Essequibo and Demerara rivers, but generally some 7-15 miles
inland between the Demerara and Berbice rivers and still further inland some
18 miles between the Berbice and Corentyne rivers. Between the frontlands
and the backlands, there exist alluvial silty clays and clays of mixed and
riverain origin. Historically, the highest sugarcane yields have been obtained
from the Berbice frontland soils.
5.          Field Layouts. The cane lands in Guyana are laid out in three
designs (camber, ridge and furrow and broad beds). Cambered beds are the
traditional in-field layouts in sugarcane in Guyana, which help achieve the
required standard of drainage. They, however, inhibit the use of in-field
machinery, with majority of cultural operations carried out manually. In the
mid-1970s, a layout, described as "traditional" ridge and furrow, was devised
to permit some mechanization of planting and inter-row tillage while
continuing to permit manual cane cutting and loading. This layout comprises
flat beds of approximately 75 ft wide, running from cross canal to cross
canal of some 400 ft. This form of ridge and furrow was extensively
developed on several estates--3,000 acres of new land at Blairmont and 2,000
acres of new land at Skeldon. Significant areas of cambered bed lands at
Albion, Rose Hall, LBI and Wales were converted to this layout. The areas
in cane under the above layouts are provided below.



- 35 -
Field Layout
Camber Beds            73,470   Traditional design for manual systems.
Ridge and Furrow        11,472   Conversion which facilitates mechanized land
preparation and cultivation, and permits
manual (but not mechanized harvesting and
loading).
Broad Bed                8,942   Modified design of ridge and furrow which
facilitates mechanized (but not manual)
harvesting and loading, as well as mechanized
TOTAL                93,884   cultivation.
6.          Estate Layout. The layout of the sugar estates has been
influenced predominantly by the dual requirements for both a drainage and a
transport/irrigation system. Guyana is the only country in the world which
grows sugarcane below sea level. The water table is high and drainage can
be restricted, especially when high sea tides are coincident with high rainfall.
On such occasions, it is necessary to keep both the sea and river water out of
the frontlands and to prevent the accumulated rainfall in the backlands from
flooding the cultivated areas. Some 30 to 40 miles of sea wall are protecting
the present extent of the industry. The cultivated lands, which are also
protected by a conservancy dam, are divided up into regular uniformly sized
fields. These have been provided with an intensive reticulation of drainage
and navigation/irrigation canals. Each estate has, on average, about 400
miles of navigation/irrigation canals and about 80 miles of drainage canals.
7.          Water Resources. The estates obtain their water supplies
from four different sources. The Berbice estates (Skeldon, Albion and Rose
Hall) receive their water supplies from the Canje Creek, while Blairmont
receives its water from the Mahaica/Mahaicony/Abari (MMA) Conservancy.
The East Demerara estates (Enmore, LBI/Diamond) are supplied with water
from the East Demerara Water Conservancy, while Wales and Uitvlugt
receive their water from the West Demerara Water Conservancy
(Boeraserie). The Canje Creek is linked to the Berbice River by the Torani
Canal, which was constructed in 1958 and was meant to supplement the dry



- 36 -
weather flows in the Canje Creek. The Torani Canal has never been able to
supply the 1,000 cusecs for which it was designed and it has subsequently
been shown that the levels in the two rivers would not permit continuous
gravity operation. There are no water shortages in Demerara, while present
water resources are adequate in Berbice to irrigate the area under production
but would not permit anything more than a nominal expansion. Large-scale
expansion of agriculture in Berbice cannot be contemplated unless expensive
storage facilities are provided on the Canje Creek, or a pumping station is
constructed at the head of the Torani Canal.
Field Infrastructure
8.          The scope of field infrastructure covers navigation/irrigation
system and layout, drainage system and layout, dams/roads network, field
structures (intake kokers, navigation sluices, check sluices, drainage sluices,
aqueducts, culverts, drainage boxes, peal-off and bridges) and other
miscellaneous items (field buildings, airstrips, cultivation fences, river
denfences, waterpath and pumping stations).
Cane Harvesting and Transport
9.          The layout of sugarcane fields in Guyana has required a
manual system of cutting and loading cane and its transportation to the
factory on water. While the manual cane harvesting operation has the
advantage of being relatively independent of soil moisture conditions, it does
require large numbers of cane cutters. At present, manual cane cutting
operations are mainly impeded by problems of transporting cutters to and
from fields and by difficulties in burning cane under conditions of heavy
rainfall. These difficulties led to much experimental work on mechanizing
the cane harvesting system. However, owing to the high cost of mechanized
harvesting, depressed cane yields and the very high costs of increasing
factory capacity, it is evident that mechanization should only be carried out
where labor shortages make it absolutely necessary.
10.         On the existing Guyana sugar estates, cane is transported in
small barges, known as punts, which are towed in trains of 20-25 units by a
45 hp tractor. These punts are pulled into the cross canals by draught
animals for manual loading by the cane cutters. The principal difficulty with
the punt transport system is haulage in wet weather. The dams on which the
haulage tractors travel are normally bounded by water on both sides, with the
dam top only 1-1/2 to 2 feet above the water level. As a result, the
unsurfaced dams rapidly become waterlogged in wet weather, giving severe



- 37 -
difficulties for the transport tractors. On some estates, this problem is
overcome by the use of crawler tractors for cane transport, but this practice
can cause increased rates of damage to the punts in addition to very severe
damage to the dam surface. Tugs serve as backup substitutes for tractor
haulage in wet conditions when canal conditions are suitable.
Central Services
11.         GUYSUCO's central service activities include: (a) Electrical
and Instrumentation Shop (LBI), whose electrical motor rewinding facilities
are inadequate; (b) Central Laboratory (Head Office). This unit is not
ideally placed, being located in the same type of building as the GUYSUCO
clerical and administrative staff and away from the main center of the
laboratory's activity, namely the analysis of sugar and molasses loaded for
export; (c) Demerara Sugar Terminal, which has sufficient capacity to handle
an annual production in excess of 300,000 tons of sugar. Under the current
reduced production regime, only one of two main bulk sugar warehouses is
maintained in operation, and the other one has been used to supply essential
spares for the other.
B. STATUS OF GUYSUCO'S PRESENT PHYSICAL CAPITAL AND
BUDGETARY REQUIREMENTS
Field Equipment
12.         The decline in cane and sugar yields has resulted partly from
the failure to replant sufficient cane lands each year, increasing the
percentage of older ratoons. The inability to replant has been caused, to a
large extent, by restricted replacement of old agricultural machinery and
equipment. The ages of the heavy crawlers and draglines are of particular
significance as these units are vital to the replanting operation on the
cambered beds, which still make up 80% of the cane area. The normally
accepted maximum economic age for agricultural equipment is 8-10 years.
Sixty-six percent of existing equipment has exceeded its normal economic life
and serviceability is correspondingly low at 50-60%.
13.         The infrastructure throughout GUYSUCO has suffered in
common with the cane cultivation from lack of labor, machine inputs and the
foreign exchange to ensure spare parts, and replacement equipment were
purchased to maintain it in good condition. Lack of sufficient maintenance
equipment and material has resulted in a situation where most agricultural
activities are severely disrupted due to deteriorating navigation/drainage



- 38 -
system and impassable road conditions. Urgent repairs and replacements are
required for many structures, especially bridges and peal-off. The pumping
stations where much of the plant is now very old and inefficient. Some
pumps are over 60 years old and many of the diesel engines powering the
pumps are over 20 years old and in a very poor condition requiring frequent
costly maintenance.
14.         The extent of deterioration varies from estate to estate.
Skeldon, Albion and Rose Hall would need to make significant expenditures
on their water supply pump stations. With regard to drainage and side lines,
Albion, Enmore and LBI/Diamond are worse than average, while for roads
and dams, Albion, Rose Hall, Blairmont and LBIVDiamond are in worse
condition than average.
Factory Equipment
15.         All factories either lack the necessary equipment or have
existing equipment in poor condition to operate efficiently. Many prime
movers are in poor condition. Various cane knives and mill turbines are in
poor condition, with numerous carbon ring land leaks and unconventional
nozzle plate modifications. These types of problems, together with the use of
low efficiency single stage turbines on many turbo-alternator sets, results in
an unbalanced factory steam system and the use of auxiliary fuel to
supplement factory turbo-alternator capacity.
16.         All factory laboratories have inadequate equipment to conduct
the proper amount of analysis. Process control equipment, such as juice
scales, imbibition water scales and molasses measuring equipment are poorly
maintained or totally absent. Factory control is made very difficult under
these circumstances.
17.         A further common feature throughout all factories is the
dilapidation of low grade massecuite crystallization equipment. Despite the
modernization of some of the low grade sugar curing stations, notably
Skeldon, Rose Hall, Enmore and Uitvlugt, low grade crystallizers are all but
ineffective, resulting in increased sugar losses.
18.         In addition to the above common features, processing
bottleneck exists due to outdated technologies and designs. Evaporator
operation, clarification plant, batch machine curing of low grade massecuites
and manual de-ashing designs of boiler furnaces are all examples of the type



- 39 -
of plant that require rationalization if productivity is to be increased and
operating costs reduced.
19.         The 1993 capital budget (Table 2 of this Annex) includes
funding to replace some of the more critically inefficient or wom out
equipment. IDA financing in 1993 would be concentrated to finance factory
equipment as follows:
(a)   Battery of three (3) Fully Automatic High Grade Centrifugals
for Blairmont Factory.
The existing High Grade Centrifugals at Blairmont were
installed in 1967. These machines after 25 years of operation
are becoming unreliable and difficult to maintain. Renewal of
this mainstream plant is required to safeguard ongoing
operations at Blairmont;
(b)   Rehabilitation and transfer of the Skeldon 1 mw Allen Turbo-
Altemator Set to Wales Factory.
The only steam generators at Wales Factory are two Fraser
and Chalmers Turbo-Alternators manufactured in 1948 and
1957. These sets have become most unreliable and due to
their age are now obsolete. To safeguard short-term
operations at Wales, replacement of these units has now
become urgent. However, due to the uncertain future of this
factory and limited space within its powerhouse, a short-term
solution is to transfer a relatively new 1 MW Allen Turbo-
Altemator from the Skeldon Factory. This altemative is now
proposed.
(c)   2.5 MW Turbo-Alternator Set for Skeldon Factory.
Power generation at Skeldon comprises a relatively new Allen
1 MW Turbo-Alternator and a 25 year old 960 KW set driven
by a Weir Turbine. This turbine is now obsolete and due to
its age has become inefficient. Skeldon Factory is now very
marginal with respect to steam power generation.
(d)   It is proposed to install a 2.5 MW multi-stage Turbo-
Altemator at Skeldon to replace the 1 MW Allen Set the latter
to be rehabilitated and installed at the Wales Factory.



- 40 -
For 1994, it is expected that IDA would finance additional Turbo-Alternator
sets for Albion, Blairmont and Enmore, as well as the replacement of
obsolete mill and knife turbines and the purchase of a diesel alternator, both
for Albion (Table 3).
Capital and Operating Budget for 1993
20.         GUYSUCO's 1993 capital budget, involves a total of
US$19.1 million (Table 2 of this Annex). The capital expenditure by sugar
estate/mills, totalling about US$15.8 million, is summarized below:
GUYSUCO's Capital Budget for 1993
(US$'000)
Estate/    Agriculture   Factory   Administration    Total
Factory
Skeldon         0.7         0.8         0.2           1.7
Albion          1.4         0.7         0.3          2.4
Rose Hall       0.9         1.7         0.2           2.8
Blairmont       0.9         1.6         0.1          2.7
Enmore          0.6         0.7          -            1.4
LBI             0.7         0.6         0.1           1.5
Wales           0.7         0.5         0.2           1.4
Uitvlugt        0.8         0.9         0.2           1.9
TOTAL          6.7        7.4          1.3         15.8
The proposed project would cover above US$2.0 million of the above factory
capital requirements in 1993 (Table 3, of this Annex). The proposed
operating budget for 1993 is shown in Table 4 of the Annex.



- 41 -
C. FINANCIAL ADVISORY CONSULTANIS
21.         Recruitment. The recruitment of the finandal advisory
consultants was launched under an IDA-administered Japanese Grant,
including the preparation of the terms of reference and the letr of invitation
to engage the financial advisors.
22.         Terms of Reference. The main twhst of this technical
assistance would be the identification of potential investors to implement the
long-term rehabilitation plan of GUYSUCO. Annex 3 provides in greater
detail the scope of work of the financial advisors.
23.         Administration. The work of the financal advisor will be
supervised by a Privatization Board, chaired by the Minisr of Finance, and
a Privatization Unit to be established under the mandate of the Government's
'Privatization Policy Framework Paper' of June 1993, recently approved by
Parliament. The Unit, under the guidance of the Board, would review the
findings and recommendations of the financial advisors, formulate proposals
for the restructuring of GUYSUCO and be responsible for implementing
them thereafter. The Privatization Board through the Unit would also keep
IDA informed of the progress of its work through the submission of a
quarterly progress report.



GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION                                                            sCHMtXE 21
BUDGET 1993
SUGA PRODUCTiON
GUYSUCO ESTATES CANE                                         FARMERS CANE                                       INDUSTRY TOTAL
ESTATES        Hue        Tons      TOns                            IHiw.t  Tons    TOnM                               Hwavi      TOMn      Tore
_________   ~Acres   .s.,.    care        7      TShA~ ITC/TS   Acrs   Sug        Cwns    ICA   TISA   TfjJ         Aaus      S,,    Cans    J7CI   TS    1C/T
~S1kWdn         4,213.1   10.627    134.810   32.00   2-52   1269      85.0    244      3.0W6   35.90   2684   12.68    4,299.1   10.671    137.905   32.08   2.53   12.as
AbIon            6,996.8   18.249    219,900   31.43   2.61   12-05    495.1    150     9,100   16.36   1.51   12.13     7,491.9  18.98     M9,00O   30.57   2.54   12-05
Ross H'd        8,151.7   14,350    172.247   28.00   2.33   12-00    647.0  1,510    18J,122   28.01   233   12.00      6,7U&7   15.860    190,309   28.00   233   12.00
BiaarKWnt       46544.11  1395      178.020   36.75   2. 86   12.78            -      ____                              4.4.   1395  17&2    38.75   2.a86   1278
BERBICE        2Z2205.7 157,178    704,977   311.75   2-57   12.33   1,228.1  2Z504    30,317   24.69   2.04   12.11     23,433.8   59.682    73294   31.38   2.55   12.32
Ernmore         3,893.6    7,055    112.920   29.00   1.81   16.0     102.0    105.    1.785   17.50   1.03   17.00     3,995.8   7,160    114,705   28.71   1.79   io0n
LERL            5,000. 2   10,300    147,325   29.00   2.03   14.30    9092   1,95     27.295   30.02   2.14   14.00    5,989.4  12Z250    174.820   29.15   2.05   14.25
vw"le           3,411.3    7.837    102Z339   30.00   2.24  '13.40   1,085.0  1,907    2.8,25   25.00   1.87   13.40    4,476.3    9,824    128,984   28.811  2.15   13.40
Uimuo           3,9.    8576    110,19    29.00   2VI   12-85                                            -                                   10,19 j   2000   2.28   12.85
DELERARA        18,185.2   33,560    47Z.781   29.21   2 07   14.08  2,076.2  4,042_j55,705   26.83   1.95   13.76    18,261.4  37,610    528,486   28.94   2.06   14.05
INDOUSTRY      38.390.9   90,744   1,177,758   30.68   236   1298   3,304.3  6,546    86,022   26.03   1.98   13.14    41,695.2   07,29    1,283,780   30.31   2.33   12.99
2-                      -                   a      -       -       a                -9-3
Skskion     8,268.4  1a,196    218,292   34.51   2.56   13.35    621.9  1,310    17,410   27.99   2.11   13.29      6,8903   17,506    233,702   33.92   2.54   13.35       .
Albon          11,774.9   31,039    381,474   33.83   2.75   12.29    705.3  1,163    14,435   20.47   1.65   12.41    1 1,960.2  32,202    395,909   33.05   2.a0   1229 
Bose HeA        8,311.9  20,900    265,961   32.00   2.52   12.72    898.0  2,287    26,736   32.00   2.52   12.68      9,209.9  23,170    294,717   32.00   2.52   1272
Blkuimiot       J.68.    1.5        24.2    36.50   2 78   13.11                     _____                                    3   18!,53  I  4,2    36-50   2.78   13.11
BERBiCE        32,513.5  86.677   1,106,772   34.04   287    12.77  Z,225.2  4,740    60,581   27.22   2-13   12.78    34,738.7   91,417   1,167,353   33.6   2.63   12.77
Ernx"    ~  5,51 4.4   10,500    185,430   30.00   1.90   15.76    195.5    215     3,8f70   19.80   1.10   18.00   5,709.9  10,715    1a9,300   29.65   1.88   15.80
LELL            7,491.1   15.570    217,915   29.09   2-06   14.00   1,549.5  3,355    46,955   30.30   2-17   14.00    9,040.6  18.925    284.870   29.30   2.09   14.00
vweIs           3,709.7   8,305    111,291   30.00   2.24   13.40   1,75-3.7  3,272    43,843   25.00   1.87   13.40    5,463.4   11,577    155,134   28.40   2.12   13.40
U0L                                             0                                                                        .2.    2.5          6-S 2.1. 6.020.5  8 2,56    162,835   27.0    210   12.85  _____  __  __~~23  71 2.10   1285
DEMERAPA       22,735.7    47,031    857,271   28.91    2 07   13.98   3,498.7  8,842    94,668   27.06   1.96   13.84    26,234.4  53,873    751,939   28.68  2.O5   13.96
IN4XJSTRY      55,.249.2  1133,708   1,784,043   31.93 J2.42   13.19   5,723.9  11,582   155,249   27.12   202   13.40    60,973.1  145,290   1,919,292   31.48   238   13.21
YEAR - i 9 a 
Skwldon        10,481.5   26.823    351,102   33.50   256   13.09    107.9  1,554    20,506   28.97   2.20   13.19    11,189.4  28,377    371,607   33.21   2.54   13.10
Abion           18,271.7  49,286    601,374   32.91   270   12.20  1,200.4  1,913    23,535   19.61   1.59   12.30    19,472.1   51,201    624.Wg   32.09   2.63   12.21
ROSe Hall      14,483.6   35,259    438,228   30.30   2 44   12.43   1,545.0  3,T777    46,858   30.33   2.44   12.41    16,008.6  39,036    4815,086   30.30   2.44   1243
Blffairot      11,50.   3485    42.4    3.60.  282   12.98                                                              11.502.4 -  j~   32.485    42.4    350    2.82   12.96
8ER8KCE        54,719.2  143,855   1,811,749   33.11   2.63   12.59   3,453.3  7,244    90,896   26.32   2.10   12.55    58,17-2.5  151,099   1,902,647   32.71   ZO60   12.59   O
nri
Ernmor          9,408.2   17,555    278,350   29.59   1.87   15.86    297.5    320      5,655   19.01   1.08   17.67     9,705.7  17,875    284,005   29.28   1.84   15.19-    ><
L81I.           12, 571.3   25.870    365,240   29.05   2 06   14.12  2,458.7  5,305    74,250   30.20   216   14.00    15,030.0   31,175    439,490   29.24   2.07   14.10    ,,
WeIss           7,121.0   15,942    213,630   30.00   2.24   13.40  2,816.7  5,258    70,488   25.00   1.87   13.40     9,939.7  21,201    284,096   28.58   2.13   13.40
ui  gt                    21 232    27.3    27.78   2-18   12.85                     ____20A   2123                                         272.832   27.78   2.16   1285S
DEkIERAFIk     3B,92.9   a0,599   1,130,052   29.03   2097   14.02 15,574.9 110,884    150,373   26.97   1.95   13.82    44,495.8   9 1,483   1,260,425   28.78   2.06   14.00
INDUSThY       9,4.   224,454   Z,941,801    14        4     13.11 19,028.2 118,126 [ 241,271 _26.72   2.01   13.31   10,8.322582_ 3,163,07    31.00   2.36 113.12



-43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
GUYSUCO CAPITAL BUDGET 1993
SUMMARY
Foreign     Foreign       Local      Total        Total
Exchange    Exchange    Currency      G$M      Equivalent
US$'000s       G&M          G&M                    II
Capital expenditure to be
financed from GuySuCo's
operating income                    10,624        1,328         930     2,259          18.1
Factory capital expenditure
to be financed through
suppliers' credits                   3,733         467           31      487           3.9
Factory capital expenditure
to be financed through
World Bank                           1,986         248           25      274            2.2
Rehabilitation of drainage and
irrigation pumps to be
financed through Caribbean
Development Bank                     1,981         248           12      260           2.1
18,324       2,291         998     3,280          26.3
Agriculture and Field Structure          5,105         639         501      1,140          9.1
Factory                                 12,272        1,534         188     1,712         13.7
Administration                            948          118         309       428           3.4
18,325       2,291         998     3,280          26.2
=====    ==== =-==-,                         .



SUMMARY OF CAPITAL BUDGET, 1993             Table 2
44                               T
Foreign   Foreign       Local      Total       Total
Exchange  Exchange  Cuirrency         G$M      equiv.
US$'000s        G$M        G$M                in US$M
________   ---------.____.                           _
Berbice Region
Agriculture                1,576        197        313        510         4.1
Factory                    4,093        512         97        609         4.9
Administration                  0          0       107        107         0.9
5,669        709        517     1,226          9.8
Demerara Region
_______________
Agriculture                1,548        194        176        369          3.0
Factory                    2,459        307         35        343         2.7
Administration                  0          0        67         67         0.5
4,008        501        278        779         6.2
Central Services
________________
Administration               948        118         135       254          2.0
GLUYSUCO
Agriculture                3,124        391        489        879          7.0
Factory                    6,553        819        132        951         7.6
Administration               948        118        309        428          3.4
10,624      1,328        930      2,259        18.1
Source: GUYSUCO
16-Jan-93



GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION            45                             X  1
--------------~~~~~~~~  45                                       TaNNeX 2
CAPITAL BUDGET 1993                                              Table 2
___________________
BERBICE REGION
______________
Foreign   Foreign     Local     Total      Total
Exchange  Exchange  Currency      G$M    equiv.
US$'000s      G$M       G$M              in US$M
Skeldon Estate
______________
Agriculture                217        27        57        84        0.7
Factory                    763        95         8       103        0.8
Administration               0         0        30        30        0.2
980      122         95      217         1.7
Albion Est-te
_____________
Agriculture                593        74       105       180        1.4
Factory                    598       75         19        94        0.7
Administration               0         0        31        31        0.3
1,191      149        155      304         2.4
Rose Hall Estate
________________
Agriculture                331        41        73       114        0.9
Factory                  1,241       155        55       210        1.7
Administration               0         0        25        25        0.2
1,572      197        152      349         2.8
Blairmont Estate
________________
Agriculture                345        43        74       118        0.9
Factory                  1,491       186        16       202        1.6
Administration               0         0        16        16        0.1
1,836      229        106      336         2.7
Regional Management
Agriculture                 89        11         4        15        bv1
Factory                      0         0         0         0        0.0
Administration               0         0         5         5        0.0
89       11          9        20        0.2
BERBICE REGION
Agriculture              1,576       197       313       510        4.1
Factory                  4,093       512        97       609        4.9
Administration               0         0       107       107        0.9
5,669      709        517    1,226         9.8
16-Jan-93
_ _ _.   v



GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION            - 46 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 2
CAPITAL BUDGET 1993
_ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
DEMERARA REGION
_______________
Foreign   Foreign     Local      Total      Total
Exchange  Exchange  Currsncy        G$M     equiv.
US$'O00s       G$M       G$M               in US5M
Enmore Estate
_____________
Agriculture                 337        42        37         79        0.6
Factory                    672         84         4         88        0.7
Administration                0         0         3          3        0.0
1,009       126        45        171        1.4
LBI Estate-
__________
Agriculture                 387        48        43         92        0.7
Factory                     545        68         8         76        0.6
Administration                0         0        17        .17        0.1
931       117        68        185        1.5
Wales Estate
Agriculture                 337        42        44         86        0.7
Factory                    459         57         5         62        0.5
Administration                0         0        24         24        0.2
796        99        73        172        1.4
Uitvlugt Estate
_______________
Agriculture                 461        58        45        102        0.8
Factory                     784       .98        18        116        0.9
Administration                0         0        23         23        0.2
1,245       156        86        241        1.9
Regional Management
___________________
Agriculture                  27         3          6        10        0.1
Factory                       0         0         0          0        0.0
Administration                0         0         0          0        0.0
27         3         6         10        0.1
DEMERARA REGION
_______________
Agriculture               1,548       194       176        369        3.0
Factory                  2,459        307        35        343        2.7
Administration                0         0        67         67        0.5
4,008       501       278        779        6.2
16-Jan-93



ANNEX 1
Table 3
-.47-                                               a
GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION LTD
1993 FACTORY PROJECT RANKING                       January 18. 1993
Rxchange Rate  GS   125         *          US $1.00
t.n.n, 2 .......= ........ l        .... *ISSSSSUUUSax ...  *SUCSSSSU.3t3. Sa ...........
Capital :          :  U.S.                           :U.S.DOLLAR
Description                 : budgt  :Quantity   Dollars    Local         Total   [CUMULATIVE
:Idont N0              US,000    06,000    C6,000  I  TOTAL
...............  .....                                    .......
1 :Punt dumper, feed table, cross carrier, :   sC    :                1,603530    11,471   140,883    1,127.07
2  2 HU Turbo alternator met                      RH         1        1,050.00    11,563   142,813    2,269.57
3  Steam receiver boil-r manifold                 AN       I             48.30        302      6,339    2,320.28
4 :Powerhouse steam receiver                      AIN        1           36.75        230      4,823    2,358.87
5 :3 sets Boiler water management controls        AN         3          267.75      1,673    35,142    2,640.01
6 :3 met. Boiler water sanagement controls         sC?       3          267.75      1,673    35,142    2,921.14
7  2 mets Boiler water management controls         CNP       2          212.00      1,325    27,825    3,143.74
8 :Boiler low level trips                         RH         3            3.00         11        394    3,146.89
9 :Low level trips for boilers 2 a 3               SYR       2            1.70          11       223    3,148.68
10  Pressure reducing/desuperheating station:   AN            1           17.00        106      2,231    3,166.53
11  Alternator synchronising panel             :   AN         1            4.00         25        525    3,170.73
12  750 KW High speed Cat diesel alternator         t EHP     1          234.00      1,463    30,713    3,416.43
:st (electrification of drainage pumps) :
13 :Low grade Broadbent continuous fugala          Cv         2          150.00      2,938    21,688    3,589.93
14  High Grade Centrifugal$ (Battery of             SWR       3          520.00      8,250    71,250    4,151.93
Three)
15 :Turbine driven boiler feed pump                AN                1    S4.40        340      7,140    4,217.05
16 :Boiler feed pump (Electric)                  L.B.I.       1           46.00        2868     6,038    4,26S.35
17 :Electrical driven boiler foed pump              SWR       1           32.30        202      4,239    4,299.26
18  Boiler feedwater pump (Electric)               IC6u       1           47.60        298      6,248    4,349.24
19  Turbo driven boiler feed pump                    V         1          46.60        t91      6,116    4,398.17
20  75 HP Woutid rotor motor for bagasse carr:    N            1           5.00          31       656    4,403.42
21 :Rebuild No 1 Chimney                          L.B.t.       1         112.00      5,700    19,700    4,561.02
22 'Screened Juice pumps                            AN        2           21.25         133     2,789    4,583.34
23  NH.G.  assecuite pumps                          AN        2           28.00         175     3,67S    4,612.74
24  General mervice water pumps                     AN         2           1.30          96     2,008    4,628.80
25 :Nill sump pump                                   H         1            7.65         48     1,004    4,636.83
26 :General service water pump                      RN         2           13.60         8S     1,785    4,651.11
27 :Screened Juice pumps                          L.3.I.       2           38.00        238     4,988    4,691.01
28  Clear Juice pumps                             L.B.3.       2          40.00         250     5,250    4,733.01
29 :Surplus condensate pump                       L.I.I.       I           11.00         69     1,444    4,744.56
30 :nud pump                                      L.B.I.       2           18.00        113     2,363    4,763.46
31 :Hot water pump                                L      b     2             .00         S0     1,050    4,771.86
32  Raw water pump                                L.b.I.       2           21.50        134     2,822    4,794.44
33 :naosecuit* pump & drive                       L.B.I.       1           34.20        214     4,481    4,830.35
34  Vacuum pump & drive tCL403)                   L.B.I. l     3           55.40        346     7,271    4,888.52
35 :L"'; grade mollasss pu m                      Lp       :   I 1         14.00         U      1,838    4,903.22
36 ''iltrate pumps                                L..I.        2           14.40         s0     1,890    4,918.34
37 :H.G. molasses punp                              cv         1           11.00         61     1,444    4,129.89
38 :Injection water pump                            CV         I           28.00        17S     3,675    4,959.29
39  Magma pump                                      Cv         I           33.60        210     4,410    4,994.57
40 :Juice mupply pumps (clarified Juice)           ICIu        2           40.00        250     S,250    S,036.57
41  namsecuite pump                                IC3u        1           34.20        214     4,489    5,072.48
42 :Mud pumps (weaco)                              ICu         2           18.00        113     2,363    5,091.38



ANNEX 1
-48-                                               Table 3
43  Filtratp pumipoi iwemco)                        ICau        2           14.40         go      1,890    5,106.50
44 :Mill bed pimpn                                   SWUR       4           31.28        196      4,106 :  5,139.34
45 :C1n^irfiol JtC Aic umln                          swR        2           14.45         90      1,997      5,154.51
46 :Syrup pumps                                      sla        2          _t.1.58        47        995      5,162.48
47 :InJection water pumps                            SWR        2            8.50         53      1,116    5,171.40
48 :Condensate pumps                                 SWit       2            8.50         53      1,116    5,180.33
49  General servico water pumps                      SWRI       2           14.45         90      1,897    5,195.50
50 :L.C. Mnnqoc uite pumps                           sWa        1           23.80        149      3,124    5,220.49
Sl :Molasses shipping pump                           CV         1           18.00        113      2,363    5,239.39
52 :Potabla  woiter pump                             cv         1           15.00         94      1,969    5,255.14
53 :Blanco Directo sugar filtration system          ICBu        1          250.00      3,563    34,813    5,533.64
54 :Broadbent white sugar centrifugal               ICBu        1          180.00      2,125    24,625    5,730.64
55  4500 RPM Skato Skalo machines                    AN         5            8.30         52      1,089    5,739.35
5 s   4snO RIl'! Skatr) Skit](, mniclii,e         L.B.I.        2            3.60         23        473    5,743.13
57  4500 RP'l Skato SkRlo machines                   SWR        6           10.00         63      1,313    S,753.63
58  Automatic baggintg scales                        S'lR       2            9.45        S5       1,240    5,763.56
59 :Stitchinq marhii,e & conveyor                    swit       2           15.75         98      2,067    5,780.09
60  Reverniblt   st,.ckitng co,iveyor                SUlt       2           20.00        125      2,625    5,801.09
61  Automatic bagging scale                          Rcr        2            9.45         59      1,240    5,811.02
62 :Stitching macihine & conveyor                    8cr        2           15.75         98      2,067    5,827.55
63  Reversible stacking conveyor                     scr        2           20.00        125      2,625    5,848.55
64  AuLomatic bagging scales                       L.B.I.    . 2             9.45         59      1,240    5,858.48
65  Stitchirig machine & conveyor                  L.B.I.       2           15.75         98      2,067    5,875.01
6G  Reversible stacking conveyor                   L.B.I.       2           20.00        125      2,625    5,896.01
67  Automatic bagging scale                          RH         1            4.73         30        620    5,900.97
G8  SLichiliq machln,l & coniveyor                   RH         1            7.88         49      1,034    5,909.24
69  Reversible stacking conveyor                     RH         1           10.00         63      1,313    5,919.74
70 :Automatic bagging scales                        ICEu       2             9.45         S9      1,240    5,929.67
71 :Stitching machine & conveyor                    ICiu        2           15.75         98      2.067    5,946.20
72 :Revernihle. stncking conveyor                   IC3U       2            20.00        125      2,625    5,967.20
73 :Ceneral sevice air compressor 300cps             AN         l           37.02        231      4,859    6,006.07
74  300 PSI Air compressor                           RCr        I           13.00         81      1,706    6,019.72
Hope Pumo station                           :
75 :Starter for Hope drainage pump                   EHP     I              14.80         93      1,943    6,035.26
:Foulis pump station
76  Electric driven priming pump                    IEH         l            4.80         30        630    6,040.30
IStrathsoev yump station                     :
77  Electric driven priming pump                     EHP     1               4.80         30        630    6,045.34
:Annandale Pump station
78  Diesel Iriven air start compessor                EMP     1               9.00         56      1,181    6,054.79
'C ood11pe Dump satat io
79 :Diesel driven air start compessor                EHN        1            9.00         56      1,181    6,064.24
IL.R. pump station
80 :Rotor resistance for 250HP motor               L.8.1.                   15.00         94      1,969    6,079.99
81  vacuum priming pump                            L.9.1.                    5.00         31        656    6,085.24
:Montrose pump station
82 :Diesel air start compressor                    L..I.        1            9.00         56      1,181    6,094.69
83 :Vacuum ptriming pump                           L.9.1.       1            5.00         31        656    6,099.94
OC1le p my statinn
84  Vacuum priming pump                            L.9.1.       1            5.00         31        656    6,105.19
85 :Modifications to bagasse distribution
:system                                         IC8u      1             10.00      7,063      8,313    6,171.69
86 :ACB for Elliot IOOOKVA T/A *-t               I H?           I           38.00        238      4,988    6,211.59
87 1600 asmp ACB's for the power house mAin
Ipanel                                           tHP        3            S.00          56      1,181    6,221.04
Rl :A00 nml, Air * I-iuil  b reaker Ip/hn.,n*)      IClu        I            3.20         20        42n    6,224.40



ANNEX 1
49                                                  Table 3
89  Revetment for water intake                      AN         1                      15,000    15,000    6,344.40
90  Repairs to revetment                            RH                                12,000    12,000    6,440.40
91 :Repairs to factory cold water inlet duct:    cr            1                      1,550      1,550    6,452.80
92 :T.I.G. Welding set for welding atainl-ass  C.C.C.          1      :     4;76          17        362    6,455.70
93  Portable balancing machin- (Shi-nk)            .c.c.       I             4.14         26        544    6,460.05
94  2 tonne Light truck                           i.C.C.       1           24.61         154      3,230    6,485.89
95 :High speed power metal saw                    i.C.C.       1            10.00         63      1,313    6,496.39
96 :Pneumatic hand grinders                       C C.C.       4             3.10         19        407    6,499.64
97 :Knife grinding machine                         i.C.C.      I            10.00         63      1,313    6,510.14
98 :Extentini to building for rehabilitating:
carrier chain                                 C .C.c C     I                      5,000      5,000    6,550.14
99 :Horizontal boring machine (second hand)  I.C.C.            1            51.00        319      6,694    6,603.69
100  Service vehicle for iCC fabrication Eng.  t.C.C.                         8.00         50      1,0SO    6,612.09
101 :100 toune llyydraulic press                   E.C.C.       I            11.00         69      1,444    6,615.24
102  Welding plants                                PROJECT      4            15.00         94      1,969    6,630.99
103  Lifting Tackle                                PROJECT      1             4.00         25        525    6,635.19
104  iHydraulic Jacks                              PROJECT      2             2.50         16        326    6,637.82
tOS  tMagietic base dIrill., PROJECT                            2             3.50         22        459    6,641.49
106  Angle grinders                                PROJECT      4             3.00         19        394    6,644.64
107  Dumpy level                                   PROJECT      1             1.50          9        197    6,646.22
108 :Concrete mixers                               PROJECT      2            15.00         94      1,969    6,661.97
109  Dumper                                        PROJECT      I            12.00         75      1,575    6,674.57
110  Oxy-acetalene cutting equipment               PROJECT      1             1.50          9        197    6,676.14
111  Air compressor                                PROJECT      1           20.00         125     2,625    6,697.14
112  Vibrators                                     PROJECT      2             2.00         13        263    6,699.24
113  Pumps                                         PROJECT      2            10.00         63      1,313    6,709.74
114  Woodward governor test rig                    DIESEL       I            36.00        225      4,725    6,747.54
115 :High pressure hot water cleaners              DIESEL       2             5.00         31        656    6,752.79
116  Alfa Laval oil centrifuge                     DIESEL        1           10.00         63      1,313    6,763.29
117  rPortable balancilig machine (Shienk)         DIESEL       I             2.50         16        328    6,765.92
118  Crystalliser drives                             RH         5            27.00        169      3,544    6,794.27
119  Low grade crystaliser drives                    SWR        1            20.40        128      2,678    6,815.69
120  worm & Wheel drives for crystallisera           cv         3            17.50        109      2,297    6,834.06
121  lSS HP Resistance starters                      AN         2            11.80         74      1,549    6,846.45
122  Replacement boiler ID fan motors                 CHP       2            88.80        55S    11,655    6,939.69
123  Powerhouse roof replacement                      BCF        1           47.25        295      6,202    6,989.30
124  40HP motors for cane carrier drives             ICBu       2            15.00         94      1,969    7,005.05
125  Size 914 H&F eddy current couplings            ICu         2            31.60        198     4,148    7,038.23
12G  Cnthodic piotection system for steel
piles, piemilling, boilers, wharf.              cv         3           27.00         169     3,544    7,066.58
127  Engine for tug friendship                       cv          I           12.00         75      1,575    7,079.18
128  Replacement boiler ID & FD damper
:controls                                        EHP        2           22.60        141      2,966    7,102.91
129  Sootblower valves                               6BC         12          60.00        375      7,875    7,165.91
130  Farval Crease lubrication pump                   BCF        I            3.00         19        394    7,169.06
131  Digital clip on ammeter                     :ELECT/INS:   4              1.90         12        249    7,171.06
132  Digital megger                               :XLECTlINS:   4            18.00        113      2,363    7,189.96
133  Light meter                                  :ELECT/INS:   I              .60          4         79    7,190.59
134  Dual DC voltage stabiliser                  :ELECT/INS:   1              2.10         13        276    7,192.79
135  Anologue AVO motor                          CELECT/INS:   3              4.00         25        525    7,196.99
136  Industrial semi conductor tester            :ELECT/INS:   I              3.00         19        394    7,200.14
137 :Digital multi tester                        :tLECT/INs:   3              8.00         50      1,050    7,208.54
138  Precision slide wire potentiometer          :ELECT/INS:   1              3.00         19        394    7,211.69
139  Vacuum tester                               IELECT/INS:   I  1            .80          5        105    7,212.53
140 :Low resistance ductor                        :ELECT/INS:   1             2.00         13        263    7,214.63
141  Sorte toqt-r                                 EI.ECT/INS:   I            16.00        100      2,100    7,231.43



so                                               ANNEX  1
Table 3
142 :Core tester                                 :ELECT/INS:   I            16.00         100     2,100    7,248.23
143  H.T. Live line tester                       :ELECT/INS:   2             4.00          25       525    7,252.43
144  High voltage *egger                         :CLZCT/INS:   1             3.00          19        394    7,255.58
145  Earth loop resistance megger                :ELZCT/INS    2            _2.00          13        263    7,257.68
146 :L100 Pick up vehicles                       :ELECT/INS:   2            28.00         175     3,675    7,287.08
147 :Electric motor stripjing tank               :ZLECT/INS:   1            12.00          75     1,575    7,299.68
148  Platform scals for weighing copper wir.s:zLECT/INS    1                 4.50         28        591    7,304.41
149 :Steam traps                                     AN         20          27.00         169     3,544    7,332.76
150  Power house fuel pumps                          AN         2           10.71          67     1,406    7,344.01
151  Rehuilding molasses tank                    :ICDu          1           30.00      3,188      6,938    7,399.51
152 :Boiler steam manifold                          ICBu        I           24.00         150     3,150    7,424.71
153  Power house steam receiver                     ICBu        I           19.00         119     2,494    7,444.66
154 :ISKVA transformer for security lighting    ICBu            1            3.00          19        394    7,447.81
155  Emergancy lightinig nystr,                    L.B.I.       I           20.00         125     2,625    7,468.81
156 :Emergancy Lighting unit                         CV         1           20.00         125     2,625    7,489.81
157 :Water flow meter (Magflow)                      cv         1            6.00          38        788    7,496.11
158 :Molasses shipping tank                          cv         I           40.00         250     5,250    7,538.11
159  Portable welding plant (engine driven)          RH         I            7.00          44       919    7,545.46
160 :Repairs/Rebuild housing (pump stations)         RH                               25,000    25,000    7,745.46
161  Dead weight pressure gauge tester               RH         1            7.00          44        919    7,752.81
162 :Vncuum gauge tester                             RH         1            5.00          31        656    7,758.06
1G3 :Sugar hag cho,ck scale                      :   RH         1            8.00          50      1,050    7,766.46
164 :Fuel meters                                     RH         *S           4.80          30        630    7,771.50
165 ,Laboratory water still                          RH         I            2.00          13        263    7,773.60
166  Slurry mill                                     RH         1            3.00          19        394    7,776.75
167 :Miller welding plants                           EHP        2            6.60          41        866    7,783.68
168  Vacuum tester                                 L.B.I.       1             3.00         19        394    7,786.83
169  Dead weight tenter                            L.B.I.       1            2.60          16        341    7,789.56
170  Gas Detector                                    cv         1             1.00          6        131    7,790.61
171  Vacuum gnuge tester                             CV         I            3.00          19        394    7,793.76
172  Dead weight, pressure gauge tester               V          1           2.60          16        341    7,796.49
173  Office Furniture & equipment                :HiOrFICE                                150        150    7,797.69
174 ,Desktop computers c/w with printers         :HIOFFIC:   2               3.00         150        525    7,801.89
175 'Airror,ditio,ern                            :HIOvrIC:   3               1.50         150        338    7.804.59
176 'Office furiniture                            RECIONAL                                500        500    7,808.59
177  Desk top computer & printer                 :RECIONAL      2            3.00          19        394    7,811.74
178  Referen,ce text books                       :RECIONAL      2            2.00          13        263    7,813.84
179  Drawing board                               :RECIONAL      2              .50          3         66    7,814.36
180 :Boiler chemical dosing system                   SWR        I             5.00         31        656    7,819.61
181 :Wet disintigrator                               SWR        1           15.30          96      2,008    7,835.68
192  Moisture teller                                 SWR        1             4.46         28        585    7,840.36
183 :Wet disintigrator                               AN         1            15.30         96      2,008    7,856.42
181  Moisture teller                                 AN         I            4.46          28        585    7,861.11
185  Wet disintigrator                               RH         1            15.30         96      2,008    7,877.17
186  tMoisture teller                                RH         1            4.46          28        585    7,881.85
187  75 HP' Wutiid rotor motor for bagasse           RH         I            5.00          31        656    7,887.10
:carrier                                                                                                7,887.10
118  Wet disintigrator                           :    C?        1            15.30         96     2,008    7,903.17
189 :MoIstil,,*  tellrr                          :   BC         1             4.46         28        585    7,907.85
190 'uet disittigrator                               cv          1           15.30         96      2,008    7,923.92
191  Over head hoist for H.C. fugal                  cv          1           14.00         88      1,838    7,938.62
192  Wet disintigrator                              ICBu        1            15.30         96      2,008    7,954.68
193 :Mnisture teller                                ICBu        1            4.46          28        585    7,959.37
SUB TOTAL:                           6,884   135,496   995,971    7,967.77
...........S.....22  2..lSS



ANNEX I
Table 3
: SUPPLIERS CREDIT
194  2 sets Superheater tubes (boilers 1    2):  AN         2           79.80        499    10,474 2      83.79
195 21 set Superhester tubes for boiler S          Rif        1     2      :00        306     6,431       135.24
196  Retube No4 boiler                         :  RH                '    70.00        438     9,188       208.74
197 :Replacement main bank tube. boilers         L.I.I.       1         163.00      1,019    21,394       379.89
3 & 4                                                           2
198 2Retube No 3 Boiler                             C?        1     :   122.00        763    16,013       507.99
199  Generating bank & superheater tubes          ICBu        2         359.00      2,244    47,119       884.94
:Nn I . 3 bollern
200 2One net gRererntting bank tubes for           Sn         1     2  207.40       1,296    27,221    1,102.71
2hoilern I & 2    / 1/2 net each)
201 :Main bank tubes boiler Nol 1-set              cv         1         16.00       1,163    24,413    1,298.01
202  DMain batik tube.n boiler No2 I-set           cv          1       135.00        844    17,719 '  1,439.76
203  Upgrade No S boiler                          lCBu        1         820.00      8,125   110,625    2,324.76
204  400 Kw stanby diesel generator set          r.C.C.      .1         180.00      1,125    23,625    2,513.76
205 :Hydraulic press for assembly of carrier
chairl                                      E.C.C.      1           51.00       319      6,694    2,567.31
206  Ovle replacement Cat engine for mobile Cn2 DIESEL        1          65.00        406     8,531 ' 2,635.56
207  Punt dumper, feed table, cross carrier,    ICBu          1       1,246.00    12,788   168,538    3,983.86
& repositioned knife foundation.
sstts. 5s.--a-t--. nasssa.   .:  . .a..at....
SUB TOTAL:                      3,733.20    31,333   497,983    3,983.86 2
:DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION PUMP5         - CDB2
208  Cat 250HP Diesel & C/box Sandaka   - CDBD   SWR          1          61.50        384     8,072        64.58 '
209 ,Electrification of water pump        - CDB2   AN         1         319.90      1,999    41,987       400.47 ,
210 2250 HP Cat engines                   - CDBD   RH         3         153.00        9S6    20,081       561.12 '
211  ElectrIc motors fov Bath pumps       - CDB2   sC2 2                154.60        966    20,291       723.45
Strathspev nump station                   :
212 22 Sets of motors & starters 250HP  - CDB2   EHP          2         395.70      2,473    51,936    1,138.94
:& Upgrade power transmission line
:   i t.E3fP t   stAtioul
' 213  Drainage pump c/w motor & starter  - CDR:  EHP          2          176.60      1,104    23,179    1,324.37
100 tonnes/min
2 Montrose DumD station (Old * New)
214 :Replace prime movers                 - CDB2              4         194.40      1,215    25,515 2
215 :Replace pumps                        - CDB2  4                     525.00      3,281    68,906 '
SUB TOTAL:                      1,980.70    12,379   259,967    2,079.74
- ssaasas.ssa.aa.s..s.......
21993 WORLD BANK FUNDING                   2         2          2                                2           2
216 :High Grade Centrifugals (Battery of 3)       sBC         3         520.00      6,347    73,284    2,911.04
217 22.5 NW Turbo alternator set                    Swi       1        1,400.00    13,750   188,750
218  Transfer SWR I Mw Allen T/A to CV             cv         1           50.00     5,313    11,563 :
*     . I                                                               saasa.asa.....saa.                 a.a
SUB TOTAL2 1,985.50    25,409   273,597    2,188.78
~~~~.... xn... a..S. ... *..X.- -- :;
:    :f * 5 3 5 55 3 5 * 5 * :33:3:3:55
.                                             .         *          .                                . 
.~~                                  ~    ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~ .  *                  ,
:     :                                          :          :         :                                :            :
:    :                                        :         :                            



5   ANNEX 1
-S52 -                                                   Table 3
:1994 WORLD BANK FUNDING
219 '2.5 KW Turbo alternator set                  dA          1      5 1, V0.00    13,750   188,750
220 '2.5 MW Turbo alternator set                : ci   :   I           1,400.00    13,750   188,750
221  2.5 1W Turbo alternator not                :  KF   :   1         1,400.00    13,750   188,750
222 'Replace obsolete mill & knife turbin--         AN    :   4      :   674.10      9,213    93,476 :
223 :750 Kw High speed Cat diesel alternator       AN    :   1       :  234.00       1,463    30,713
.............................. ...........
SUB TOTAL:                       5,108.10    51,926   690,438    5,523.51
*     .. *                                                  *                                            .*. n
*     .                                           .         *          .                                .
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............a.........  ..*...!... x.................-,-s
CRAND TOTAL:                         17,711   244,163 2,457,988   19,663.91
|  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'asztsssmurstsz.:a:..ns:.z=::.,*.ssa=thr.r-
SAH/Issue 3/January 18, 1993
Source: GUYSUCO
Note: Small discrepancy with Table 2 of this Annex



-53                   ANNEX I
Table 4
GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION
________________________
OPERATING BUDGET 1993
_____________________
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT
_____________________
Latest                                                        US$ per
Estimate                                          Equivalent    ton of
1992                         Schedule    G$M      US$'000s    sugar
REVENUE
16,522  Sugar Sales               4       15,229    121,836       502
371  Molasses Sales            5          435      3,483        14
16,893                                    15,665    125,319       517
EXPENSES
9,622  Estates operating costs    6       9,566     76,531       315
1,600  Central costs             7        1,973     15,787        65
198  Interest                             100        800         3
11,420                                    11,640     93,118       384
EXPENDITURE BY TYPE
___________________
Employment costs                   5,107     40,854       168
Cane purchases                       785      6,279        26
Materials                          4,011     32,085       132
Services                           1,358     10,866        45
Depreciation                         449      3,591        15
Sundry revenue                       (170)    (1,356)      (6)
11,540    92,318       381
Interest                             100        800         3
11,640    93,118       384
5,473  PROFIT BEFORE LEVY & TAXATION      4,025     32,201       133
======  _____ ____ ____ _____ ____ __-=      ====-=====-==
32.4% Profit as % of turnover             25.7%
100.8% Return on Capital Employed          57.2%



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION
________________________
OPERATING BUDGET 1993
_____________________
ESTATES OPERATING COSTS
_______________________
Cost per
ton of
Equivalent Production   sugar
Schedule   G$M    US$'000s   tonnage        US$
Skeldon                      8       1,032     8,257     28,377        291
Albion                       9       1,671    13,368     51,201        261
Rose Hall                   10       1,382    11,055     39,036        283
Blairmont                   11       1,103     8,826     32,485        272
Total Berbice Estates               5,188    41,505    151,100         275
-Berbice Regional costs                 34        272                     2
Total Berbice Region                5,222    41,778    151,100         276
Enmore                      12        875      7,003     17,875        392
LBI                         13      1,487    11,894      31,175        382
Wales                       14       1;004     8,034     21,201        379
Uitvlugt                    15         934     7,468     21,232        352
Total Demerara Estates              4,300    34,399      91,483        376
Demerara Regional costs                44        354                     4
Total Demerara Region               4,344    34,753      91,483        380
TOTAL ESTATES OPERATING COSTS       9,566    76,531    242,584         315
ANALYSIS BY DEPARTMENT
Agriculture                         6,668    53,347                    220
Factory                             1,951    15,611                     64
Administration                        938      7,507                    31
Diversified Crops                        8        66                     0
9,566    76,531                   315
ANALYSIS BY TYPE
Employment costs                    4,167    33,333                    137
Cane purchases                         785     6,279                    26
Materials                           3,647    29,175                    120
Outside services                       595     4,756                    20
Intra GuySuCo charges (net)            83        663                     3
Depreciation                           314     2,511                    10
Sundry revenue                         (23)     (186)                   (1)
9,566    76,531                   315



-   -                      ANNEX 1
GUYANA SUGAR CORPORATION.                                  Table 4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -
OPERATING BUDGET 1993
_____________________
CENTRAL COSTS
Latest                                                      Cost per
Estimate                                             Equiv.   ton sugar
1992                                     G$M    US$'OOOs      US$
ANALYSIS BY ACTIVITY
____________________
959  Marketing, Administration             646      5,170       21
& Services
467  Fiqance                               384      3,076        13
70  Personnel & Industrial                780      6,237        26
Relations
258  Technical                             195      1,559         6
45  Demerara Sugar Terminals               68       545          2
1,798                                      2,073     16,587        68
ANALYSIS BY TYPE
Employment costs                      940      7,521        31
Materials                             364      2,909        12
Outside services                      740      5,919        24
Intra GuySuCo charges (net)           (59)      (472)       (2)
Depreciation                          135      1,080         4
Revenue                              (146)    (1,170)       (5)
1,973    15,787         65
Interest                              100       800          3
2,073     16,587        68



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement Table
(US$ '000)
Project Element          ICB      LCB   Other &   NBF   Total
1. Vehicles, Machinery,    19.0   -        11.1    3.4   33.5
Equipment and Spare   (10.5)             (3.5)    (.0)  (14.0)
Parts
(includes 40% of
administration costs)
2. Consultancies          -       -          1.0    -       1.0
(1.0)          (1.0)
3. Civil Works            -       -          -      3.0    3.0
(.0)   (.0)
4. Administration         -       -          -      3.0    3.0
(.0)    (.0)
TOTAL                    19.0     -         12.1    9.4   40.5
(10.5)   (-)       (4.5)   (-)   (15.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
credit.
i  Limited international bidding and international shopping
(US$11.1 million).
Source: Mission



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Disbursement Table
Amount of the         % of Expenditures
Category      Credit Allocated      to be
(US$'000)            Financed
(1) Vehicles, Machinery,     13.0   100. % of foreign expenditures
Equipment and Spare
Parts
(2) Consultancy Services      1.0   100. % of foreign expenditures
(3) Unallocated               1.0
TOTAL                     15.0



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Projected
Cumulative
IDA                                             Disbursements
Fiscal Year              Quarter Ending            (US$'000)
1994                     December 31, 1993            1.5
March 31, 1994              4.0
June 30, 1994               6.0
1995                     September 30, 1994           7.0
December 31, 1994           9.0
March 31, 1995             10.0
June 30, 1995               12.0
1996                     September 30, 1995          14.0
December 31, 1995          15.0
Source: Mission



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Structure, Operations and Profitability of GUYSUCO
1.          This annex evaluates the impact of the project on the sugar
industry's overall operations, including the financial rate of return on project
investments. Background information on GUYSUCO, including its past
performance is presented first.
A. THE COMPANY
Corporate Form and Ownership
2.          GUYSUCO, which (following the nationalization of the sugar
industry in 1976) was incorporated as a limited liability company, has an
authorized capital of G$ 500.0 million, involving 500 million ordinary shares
at G$ 1 of which 498.5 million shares have been issued, all being held by the
Govemment.
Management and Staffimg
3.          GUYSUCO's decision-making body is the seven-member
Board of Directors, which decides upon all matters of policy and reviews
annual financial plans and budgets. It comprises a Chairman, who is
appointed by the President of Guyana, three Government and two
GUYSUCO nominees from the private sector and the Chief Executive of
GUYSUCO as an ex-officio member. The Chief Executive, who manages
the day-to-day operations of GUYSUCO, is supported by eight directors
(Personnel, Industrial Relations, Marketing and Administration, Finance,
Technical (one each for factories and agriculture) and Regional (one each for
Berbice and Demerara). Each estate has an Administrative Manager which
reports to the Regional Director.
4.          The Regional Directors are responsible for the production and
profitability of four estates. Estate Administrative Managers are, in turn,
responsible to the Regional Directors for the production and financial targets
of individual estates. Technical support for operations is provided through
specialist staff based in the regions, who are responsible to the Regional



- 60-
ANNEX 2
Directors but receive technical guidance from their respective Technical
Directorates.
5.          GUYSUCO's current organizational structure was modified in
1991. Its total employees and workers of 27,588 include 9,757 cane
harvesters, 11,196 other field workers and 1,828 factory workers (Table 1).
About 80% of this number are considered permanent workers (i.e., those
who work 75% of the time available to them).
6.          Management Team. The current Chief Executive forms part
of a management team of 25 experts provided by Booker/Tate under an
existing contract of which 7 are scheduled to depart during 1993 (Table 2).
The management team also fills four directorate positions (Finance Director,
Technical Director for Factories Technical Director for Agriculture and
Regional Director for Berbice).
Management Systems
7.          Estate management and financial accounts are decentralized.
Each estate and factory maintains its accounting records and submits to the
Head Office a monthly performance report. Each estate and factory
maintains its accounting records and submits to the Head Office a monthly
performance report. Based on these monthly data, the Head Office generates
consolidated monthly financial statements, focusing on variances between
actual and budgeted expenditures.
8.          Accounts and Audits. GUYSUCO's accounts have been
audited by Thomas, Stoll, Dias & Co., a member firm of DRT International
(Deloitte Ross Tohmatsu). Audit reports for 1984-1991 have been
unqualified.
B. PAST OPERATIONS AND PERFORMANCE
Cane Area and Yields
9.          GUYSUCO's agricultural operation is based on a five-crop
cycle (plant crop and four ratoons) over a 60-month period. Cane yields and
quality have declined gradually over the last 30 years for reasons which are a
combination of technological, financial and environmental and human
resource factors (Table 3). Over the ten-year period 1980-1989, the average
cane yield (tons cane/acre) amounted to 29.22 tons, as compared to 31.28
and 34.93 tons over 1970-1979 and 1960-1969, respectively. In the ten-year
---    ----      -----  ----------_-



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
period prior to 1965, the pol % cane averaged 11.14%, but had fallen to
8.80% in 1989. It has since risen slowly to 9.90% in 1992 (Table 4). On
the other hand, the tons cane/tons sugar (tc/ts) ratio has shown a sharp rise
since 1968, averaging 10.8 over the ten-year period prior to 1965 and rising
to 15.4 in 1989. With the increase in efficiency, the ratio has declined again
to 12.62 in 1992 (Table 4). The deterioration of cane quality could be
attributed to excessive burning/grinding intervals, poor cutting standards, the
need for new cane varieties and the reduced drainage capability of some
estates. Main indicators of GUYSUCO's performance in cane and sugar
production are provided below. Further details are presented in Table 5.
Key Perfonmance Indicators in Cane and Sugar Production 1987-1993
| 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Cane Harvested     95      77     79      84      86     92     94
('000 acres)                                                        l
Cane Milled      2,832   2,276   2,365   1,885   2,124   2,863  2,942
('000  ts)            I_                     I                      I
Cane Yield        29.2   28.9   29.6   22.1   24.6   31.1  31.42
(tc/acre
harvested)                                                          l
Sugar Production  221    167    165    130    160    243    242
('000 ts)                     III
Of which:          n.a    n.a    n.a       8      11      16    18
farmers
contribution
Sugar Yield (ts   2.1    1.9    1.9    1.4    1.7    2.5    2.4
sugar/acre)                                          I
Cane/Sugar Ratio   14.0   14.8   15.4   15.5   14.3   12.6  13.11
(TCTrs)               I       I      I
10.          A combination of favorable weather conditions and improved
management have improved the performance of GUYSUCO in 1991 and
1992, with sugar production increasing from 130,000 tons in 1990 to
160,000 tons in 1991, and to 243,000 tons in 1992. It is expected that the
yields experienced in the 1970s can be realized, with the cane yield
increasing from 24.6 in 1991 to 31.1 in 1992 and an expected 31.4 in 1993;
and sugar yield from 1.7 in 1991 to 2.4 in 1992 and 1993. The structure of



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
cane cultivation and sugar production by estate in 1991 and 1992 is shown in
Table 6 of this Annex. That for 1993 is in Annex 1.
Labor Costs and Incentive Payments
11.           In addition to the basic wages, GUYSUCO provides sugar
production incentives, allowing workers to earn additional pay based on
individual estate weekly production targets. Another major incentive is a
profit sharing scheme, based on profit before income and corporation taxes.
Basic minimum wages have been adjusted by 75% in 1990, by another 110%
in 1991, and by 32% during 1992. The workweek was also reduced to 40
hours in July 1992. A summary of basic wages is provided below.
Wages 1990-1991 (G$)
.____ ____ __ _  1990            199                   1m 2
Planting (per acre)  $136.59 -    $239.03-$398.41 (lst March)    $433.05
$227.66     $322.69 - $537.85 (Ist October)  - $721.80
Cane Cutting and      $55.07      $96.37 (1st March)             $174.59
Loading (per ton)                 $130.10 (Ist October)
Factory workers        $9.38 -    $16.41 - $28.70 (lst March)     $29.73
$16.40     $22.15 - $38.74 (1st October)   - $51.99
Source: GUYSUCO
Labor Costs and Incentive Payments
Comparison of Basic Wages (Minimum) -1990 -1992
Wages           Percent Increase
1990
1st January                 $44                  10%
1st July                    $50                  15%
1st October                 $75                  50%
1991
1st March          1      $131.25                75%
1st October        |      $177.20        _      _35X_l
~~~~~~~1992__ _ _ _ _ _ _                          _ _
1st March                  $216.18               22%
19th July                 $237.80                10%*
*      Adjustment following implementation of 40 hours workweek.
Source: GUYSUCO



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Sugar Market and Prices
12.            The market for Guyana's sugar production falls into two
categories: the first is the established market of the EEC and US quotas and
the domestic market; and the second is the provisional market, i.e., the
Caricom Community Trade Area and the world market (see Appendix 1 of
this Annex for additional details). With the steady decline in sugar
production during 1986 to 1990 from 245,000 tons to 130,000 tons,
GUYSUCO failed to meet not only the export quota Guyana enjoys from the
EEC but also the domestic demand for sugar and any opportunities under its
US quota and its provisional markets (e.g. Caricom, Canada). A comparison
of sugar shipments and prices for 1984-1992 are provided below. Expected
shipments and prices for 1993.are shown in Table 7 of this Annex.
Sugar Shipments
Avg  1984-88       1989           1990            1991           1992
M   d %  LT    %      LT       %      LT              LT     -      LT
EEC         70  156,158    93   154,022  99.88  129,767  99.84  159,745   80  193,995
USA          6   12,798     4     6,957     0        0      0       0    12   28,217
World        8   18,472     0        0      0        0      0        0    3    7,824
Cancom       1    1,525     0        0      0        0      0       0     1    1,747
Local       15   34,810     3     3,821   0.12     153   0.16      260    4   10,591
TOTAL |T 100  223,763 1  100 | 164,800    100  129,920 |  100 | 160,005  100 T 242,374



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Sugar Prices (GS/t)
EEC                  USA               CARICOM                 Local          WorW
Year                                                                                         Canada
Price     Index      Price     Index      Price     Index      Price      Index     Prke |
1984       1,268       100      1,726        100     1,086    100           731        100       -
1985       1,419       112      1,580         92      756      70          1,419       194       -
1986      2,009        158      1,632         95      779      72          1,580       216       -
1987      6,179        487      2,355        136    2,355    217           1,527       209       -
1988      5,296        418          -          -    2,562    236           1,586       217       -
1989      14,280      1,128    15,445         93         -       -         9,668      1250       -
1990     25,197      1,987          -                                      9,470      1295       -
1991     72,491      5,717          -                                     26,550      3632
1992      78,726     6,209     54,471      3,156    37,835   3,484        10,591      1449   24,304
13.              Profitability.  Due to low  levels of production, profitability had
been disappointing, with unit cost of production reaching a peak of
US$465/ton in 1991 from a low of US$277/ton in 1987, as shown below.
The substantial increase in production cost in G$ also stemmed from the
major changes in exchange parities.
Unit Cost of Production
Production                               Rate of Exchange
('000 Tons)          G$/T              Index            GS:USS           USS/Ton
1984              242              1,565              100                3.86             405
1985              243              1,693              108                4.25             398
1986              245              1,684              108                4.27             397
1987              221              2,710              173                9.77             277
1988              168              3,331              213               10.00             333
1989              165              6,360              406               27.25             233
1990              130             15,678            1,002               39.00             402
1991              160            48,806             3,118              105.00             465
1992              243            44,500             2,843              127.50             349



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
14.         To improve the profitability of GUYSUCO, the Government,
in addition to the waiver of the sugar levy from 1984 to 1986, had taken a
series of actions over the past five years, including the: (i) injection of
G$ 225.0 million (US$52.7 million) cash equity in 1986; (ii) closing down of
two factories in 1986 and 1987, which reduced the number of sugar mills
from 10 to 8; (iii) increase of the foreign exchange retention rate from 10%
to 15% in 1984 and to 17.5% in 1990; and (iv) increase in wage rates by
75% in 1990. These measures, however, did not produce the desired
improvement in the efficiency of GUYSUCO, so that the Government, under
a memorandum of understanding signed on October 1, 1990, engaged
Booker/Tate to handle the day-to-day operations of the sugar industry.
15.         The company benefitted, to some extent, from the above
measures taken by the Government, and started to realize profit in 1986,
reducing accumulated losses from G$ 485.0 million (US$114.1 million) in
1985 to G$ 374.3 million (US$9.6 million) in 1990 (Table 9). The shortage
of foreign exchange, however, continued to hamper the operations of
GUYSUCO, generating a negative cash flow of G$ 205.0 million (US$14.8
million) between 1987 and 1990 (Table 9).
16.         Financial Structure. The progressive devaluation of the
Guyana dollar against the US dollar accounted for the considerable rise in
GUYSUCO's total assets in Guyana dollars from G$ 369 million in 1985 to
G$ 8,547 million in 1991 (Table 9). Inventories and fixed assets dominated
the balance sheet, accounting for 46% and 29% of total assets, respectively,
in 1991. Liabilities rose from G$ 510 in 1985 to G$ 7,030 million in 1991.
Current liabilities included an amount due to the Government for sugar
levies, which increased from G$ 202 million in 1988 to G$ 3,100 million in
1991, representing 44% of total liabilities at year-end 1991. Long-term debt
included a two percent Government debenture, amounting to G$ 144 million,
as well as a US$6.0 million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) for fixed assets to rehabilitate the sugar factories and another US$1.1
million for working capital. Long-term loans, however, needed to be
adjusted for loans from two British commercial banks, totalling US$2.6
million equivalent (Tenant Guarantee Limited and Lloyds Bank Limited), full
payment of which had previously been made by GUYSUCO. Equity, which
had been negative in 1985, benefitted from the 1986 fresh capital injection,
and amounted to G$ 1,517 in 1991, with debt to equity ratio and current
ratio (current assets/current liabilities), amounting to 4.6:1 and 1.0:1,
respectively, in 1991, a substantial improvement from the 1985 situation.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
C. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND JUSTIFICATION FOR
GUYSUCO
Recent Performance
17.         The overall performance of GUYSUCO improved considerably
during the last two years (1991 and 1992), as shown in the key financial
indicators in Table 10. Sugar production increased by 23% in 1991 over
1990 (from 130,000 tons to 160,000 tons) and by 52% in 1992 over 1991 to
243,000 tons (the highest since 1986). The high level of sales to the EEC
and the US, combined with favorable climatic conditions improved
management, resulted in an operating profit (before levy and tax) of about
G$ 5.0 billion in 1992 versus G$ 1.0 billion in 1990 and G$ 4.8 billion in
1991. On the basis of an agreed formula, the 1992 levy was estimated at
G$ 8.1 billion versus G$ 1.7 billion in 1990 and G$ 6.3 billion in 1991.
GUYSUCO received rebate of G$ 1.0 billion in 1990 and G$ 2.1 billion in
1991, representing about 59% and 33% respectively, of the total sugar levy
due, and expects a G$ 5.1 billion rebate on the levy due in 1992.
18.         Given the above extraordinary performance of GUYSUCO in
1992, return on assets (after levy and tax) increased from 1.5% and 0.5% in
1990 and 1991 to 18.5% in 1992, while return on equity amounted to 39% in
1992 versus 13% in 1990 and 3% in 1991.
Projected Performance under the Project (1993-1994)
19.         To help maintain the current level of its operating efficiency
and improve its financial liability, GUYSUCO would need to address, in the
short-term, critical spare and replacement requirements and pursue a long-
term strategy. Given that limited resources are available for GUYSUCO to
address these critical needs and carry out a modernization program, the
project would support a two-year investment program (involving US$40.0
million for 1993 and 1994) while developing a restructuring and privatization
strategy for the sugar industry.
20.         Under the proposed project, GUYSUCO's operating profit
before levy and tax is expected to amount to G$ 3.6 billion (US$28.9
million) and G$ 2.4 billion (US$18.8 million in 1993 and 1994, respectively
(Tables 11 and 12). Based on the above sugar levy formula and on previous
years' rebates, the sugar levy is estimated at G$ 6.6 billion (US$26.5
million) in 1993 and G$ 6.3 billion (US$25 million) in 1994, with rebates



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
projected at G$ 3.3 billion and G$ 3.1 billion in 1993 and 1994, respectively
(Table 13). The projections show a net income (after levy and tax) of
G$ 87.7 million (US$0.7 million) in 1993 and a net loss of G$ 975 million
(US$7.8 million) in 1994. GUYSUCO's financial liquidity is expected to be
very tight, with current ration amounting to 0.4:1 and 0.1:1 in 1993 and
1994, respectively. To improve this situation, the Government would need
to allow GUYSUCO to retain sufficient internally generated funds during the
project implementation.
GUYSUCO beyond 1994
21.         Once the proposed IDAS project is completed, i.e., beyond
1994, there are two possible scenarios, depending on whether GUYSUCO as
a private firm or a public firm (if the privatization efforts fail) would have
the resources to undertake the investment program required for its
modernization. An analysis of GUYSUCO's financial performance with the
proposed project under two scenarios, i.e., with and without modernization is
provided below.
22.         The two scenarios have a number of common features:
(a) operating and capital costs were based on GUYSUCO's 1992 and 1993
cost estimates; (b) the price of sugar in constant terms has been discontinued
by 2.5% per year (calculated cumulatively) for a four-year period through
1997; (c) the favorable sugar quotas are satisfied before the local and
regional markets and no allowance is made for possible increase of
GUYANA's EEC quota in 1994 to cover the Portuguese market; (d) the
sugar levy would be 10% of EEC sugar exports; (e) the company would
retain all its foreign exchange sales proceeds; and (f) GUYSUCO's
contribution towards project's financing would come from cash generation.
23.         With Project/Without Modernization. Under the "With
project/without modernization" scenario (Table 11), the 1992 production
level of 240,000 tons would be maintained in 1993 and 1994. However,
starting in 1995, with negative cumulative cash generation allowing no
further expansion and modernization, GUYSUCO would operate under
increasingly difficult situation, which would affect agricultural yields, areas
under cane, and overall sugar recovery at the factories. The impact of these
factors on production is difficult to quantify but deterioration would tend to
accelerate because strategic and critical spares and replacements would fail to
materialize, decreasing production, which would lead directly to a reduction
in foreign exchange earnings. GUYSUCO would operate at a lower level of



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
200,000 tons starting in 1995, and would accumulate losses, resulting in the
erosion of its equity base starting in 1997.
24.         With Project and Modernization. Under this scenario
(Table 12), GUYSUCO would initiate a modernization program in 1995, that
would include a reduction in the number of factories from eight to five. To
help carry out this program, private investors would be identified by 1995.
It was assumed that they would provide a total of US$20.0 million in share
capital and US$15.0 million in loans. It was assumed that the private sector
would account for over 83% of GUYSUCO's paid-in share capital by 1998
from about 56% in 1995.
25.         GUYSUCO would operate at 250,000 tons of sugar by 1995
versus 240,000 tons in 1994. Operating costs would decline by about 31%
over the 1994 level of US$93.0 million to US$71.1 million as a result of the
reduction in the number of sugar mills. With high production and sales, the
company's profitability would be satisfactory, with net income of over 10%
of sales of average equity. Cash generation is forecast to be positive by
1998. The debt/equity ration would remain well below 1:0:1, and financial
liquidity would improve considerably, with current ration increasing from
0.8:1 in 1995 to 2.2:1 in 1999. Debt-service coverage would be very
satisfactory at 8:6:1 and 3.6:1 during the same period. The incremental
financial rate of return on the investment under the modernization program is
calculated at 39%. The IRR to equity investors at a 20% payout ratio is
estimated at 17%.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Markets, Quotas and Prices
1.          This annex provides further details on the markets for the
sugar industry in Guyana (see also para. 12 of Annex 2). It reviews
Guyana's recent performance in the various markets, and the potential
markets for the sugar industry.
2.          The market for Guyana's sugar production falls into two
tranches; the first is the established market of the EEC and US quotas, and
the domestic market; the second is the provisional tranche, i.e., the Caricom
Community Trade Area, where prices, grades and market share still need to
be tested; and the world market.
Established Markets
3.          Exports. The major factor in ensuring financial stability for
the industry has been the award of fixed price quota tonnages to Guyana
under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and later through the Lome
Agreement Sugar Protocol with the EEC. Guyana has also had quotas of
smaller volume from the US. Export performance, however, has declined
rapidly since 1985. With the fall in production, exports have dropped from
more than 300,000 tons annually in the 1960s to a net figure of 102,000 tons
(130,000 tons less 28,000 tons of imports) in 1990, failing to meet its
commitments to the EC (164,000 tons) and to realize any opportunities under
its US quota (16,000 tons), or the free world market. For the same reason,
the proportion of GUYSUCO's exports that has been sold on the free world
market has fallen from 50% of the total exports in the early 1970s to nil by
1987.



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Average Volume of Sales
metric tons '
1961-1970                 301,490                    25,200
1971-1980                 288,000                    33,800
1981-1990                 202,400                    36,500
' 1 metric ton =   0.9839 long ton; 1 long ton = 1.0163 metric tons
4.          The exceptionally low world market prices in the mid 1980s
caused the Guyana industry to make a policy decision not to pursue the world
market, and only use it as a residual market if production exceeded the
volume required by the quota and preference markets. In 1985, therefore,
the industry's production target was set at 250,000 tons per annum and the
assets to be used to produce this amount of sugar (particularly the land area
under cane) were trimmed accordingly. Despite this attempt to concentrate
resources on meeting the established profitable markets, the downward trend
in production levels was not reversed and has continued until 1990.
5.          It is assumed that the quota will be maintained at its present
level under the project, although there is the distinct possibility that Guyana
may be allocated a higher EEC quota in 1994 to cover the Portuguese
market. As result of pressures on the community to reduce subsidies, the
intervention price for EEC-produced sugar seems likely to fall and with it the
price for sugar entering the EC under the Lom6 Protocol. Under project,
therefore, the price in constant terms to be paid for sugar exported to the EC
has been budgeted to fall by 2.5% per year for the four years to 1997
(Table 1). The US quota has been changed to a tariff rate basis. The quotas
of all countries have decreased as sweeteners from US- produced maize have
displaced sales from the domestic cane and beet producers.
6.          Domestic Market. Consumption per output has been running
at almost 50 kg/year, which appears relatively high. There is, however, a
possibility that unrecorded exports are occurring with neighboring territories
when price opportunities occur. Any change of true consumption in the
future will arise solely on account of population numbers. As far as local
prices are concemed, it has been Govemment policy to allow a price which
reflects the average costs of production in GUYSUCO's factories.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Provisional Markets
7.          Caribbean Community Free Trade Area. Legislation is now
in place to introduce a common external tariff for the countries of the region
in the hope that internal trade between the members will flourish and that,
e.g., production of sugar for the region by members will be more
advantageous than importing from outside the area. With most of the non-
sugar producing countries being in the East of the region, Guyana should be
well placed, geographically and economically to produce and deliver a large
proportion of the sugar required. The market, however, need to be tested in
terms of price, volume and grade of sugar (white or raw) before investing in
permanent facilities, especially since the imposition of the tariff will lead to
higher prices for consumers in these countries.
8.          Canada is the only other market with which Guyana has a
preferential arrangement. The market is essentially tied to the free world
market with the duty of C$ 1.0 per ton of imports being waived. This duty
originates in a 1925 treaty. The saving is shared with the refiners who
receive 25 % of the total. As long as the prices received are linked to the
free world market, it is unrealistic to think of Canada being anything but a
residual market for the occasional surplus in production.
9.          World Market. The exceptionally low price on the free world
market for raw sugar in the mid 1980s (about US$0.05/lb) caused the Board
of GUYSUCO to retrench the acreage of land under cane and plan to limit
production to 250,000 tons per year. This volume would have provided
some 15-20,000 tons over the export quota and domestic market volumes as a
contingency against adverse weather or to meet occasional opportunities when
world prices were favorable.
10.         The world price has averaged about US$0.15/lb (US$330 per
ton) in constant terms over the last 40 years. The World Bank commodity
forecast of February 1992 predicts prices to increase from US$220 per ton
(US$0. 10tlb) in 1993 to US$315 per ton (US$0.14/lb) by the end of the
decade (all at constant 1991 prices). (See Annex 2, Table 8).



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
GUYSUCO's Staffing
No. in Employ
1.    MANAGEMENT
(a)   Head Office
(i)  Executives                                     87
(ii)  Junior Management                             100
(b)   Estate
(i)  Senior Staff                                  311
2.    JIIUOR STAFF
(a)   Head Office                                           239
(b)   Estate
(i)  Supervisors                                   228
(ii)  Foremen (Field & Factory)                     350
(iii)  Sugar Boilers                                  75
(iv)  Chargehands                                   352
(v)  Other Clerical Grades                        1,482
3.    NON-MANAGERIAL
(a)   Head Office                                           165
(b)   Estate
(i) Factory including Skilled,
Semi-skilled and Unskilled                   1,828
(ii) FIELD
a.    Field workshop-Tradesmen/
Semi-skilled workers                    939
b.    Cane harvesters                        9,757
c.    Other Field workers
including watchmen, drivers
and unskilled labourers               11,196
(iii)  Other Labourers - GUYSUCO Training Ctr.        18
- Central Workshop              191
4.    SECURITY GUARDS                                             249
27,588
SW=-. OUYSUCO



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Booker Tate Management Team
NAMES                           DESIGNATION
G. N. Hilary                    Chief Executive
N.G. Broomhead                  Director of Finance
S.A. Hayes                      Technical Director - Factories
D. Eastwood                     Technical Director - Agriculture
N. White                        Regional Director (Berbice)
J. Haywood                      Regional Agric. Mgr. (Dem.)
N. Dyde                         Regional Agric. Mgr. (B'ce)
*  G. McIntyre                     Regional Agric. Eng. (B'ce)
D. Brett                        Regional Technologist (B'ce)
B. Elflett                      Regional Engineer (B'ce)
D. Leitch                       Regional Engineer (Dem.)
*  A. Smith                        Snr. Management Accountant
B. Michelin                     Regional Agronomist
*  P. Burns                        Chief Pilot
*  A. Allan                        Stores Controller
I. Mackail                      Project Engineer
*  P. Lloyd                        Regional Agronomist (B'ce)
T. Lodge                        Management Accountant
K. Brito                        Finance Controller
*  J. McCarthy                     Head Office Project Manager
*  M. Scott                        Agric. Engineer (Dem.)
I. Christie                     Materials Manager
J. Ragnauth                     Manager, Factory Ops.
H. Lung Kit                     Regional Technologist (Dem.)
D. Bridgland                    Systems Manager
Total: 25
1992-12-03
Administration
* Scheduled to depart during 1993



ANNEX 2
Table 3
- 74 -
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
WuU$O - Nietort&el VeIgted Average T1.ldm
Taw *_Ia.re                     Tm  saa./Tem_  ear              Tme  mar/scre
190169  1370179  19,0169      1W60/69  1170171  1160/89        1160/il  1970/79  116I/U9
Obeid"            I.S      34.92    34.95         10.26    11.46    13.44          3.60     3.04      2.6
At_m              33.60    32.04    30.16         10.63    11.32    11.39          3.26     2.63      2.5
ft" Reu           33.43    31.96    26.06         11.04    11.84    13.21          3.11     2.69      2.2
DUItromt          36.21    33.93    32.31         11.21    12.67    13.$9          3.23     2.68     2.34
an.re             33.76    30.93    29.03         10.69    12.32    15.19          3.10     2.51     1.91
13t               32.93    30.04    27.21         11.06    12.41    14.95          2.97     2.42     1.62
3t....            33.41    30. 6    26.48         11.03    12.19    13.03          3.21     2.53     1.76
Vale.             34.69    30.01    27.89         10.90    10.91    13.41          3.20     2.75     1.61
L*guea            34.11    38.13    26.37         10.94    12.74    14.23          3.31     2.21     1.63
vinblgt           32.01    29.97    27.73         11.31    14.34    14.44          2.76     2.09     1.92
krege          34.93    31.26    29.22         10.97    12.23    14.22          3.19     2.56     2.07
tmemid Deta 1900 to 1961 may
Lemra Deat  1980 to 1984  ly



ANNEX 2
-75  -                                                  Table 4
GuA
SUGAR INDUSTRY QESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporarion (GUYSUCO)
Cans Quality (1960-1992)
Pal Z              Tons Cans/
Year                     Cane               Ton. Sugar
1960                   10.99                  10.91
1961                   11.20                  10.74
1962                   11.47                  10.34
1963                   11.31                  10.54
1964                   11.00                  11.40
1965                   11.19                  10.77
1966                   11.88                  11.26
1967                   10.98                  10.73
1968                   10.91                  10.82
1969                   10.73                  11.05
1970                   10.21                  11.68
1971                   10.53                  11.27
1972                   10.67                  11.19
1973                   10.17                  12.11
1974                   10.17                  11.95
1975                   10.39                  11.52
1976                   10.12                  11.99
1977                    9.78                  12.67
1978                    9.71                  12.84
1979                    9.59                  12.88
1980                    9.50                  13.15
1981                    9.28                  13.49
1982                    9.52                  13.18
1983                    9.31                  13.85
1984                    9.22                  14.13
1985                    9.74                  13.05
1986                    9.53                  13.34
1987                    9.28                  13.92
1988                    9.11                  14.66
1989                    8.80                  15.37
1990                    8.81                  15.49
1991                    9.34                 14.29
1992                    9.90                 12.62
--- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --   -_--- --- -    - -- --- --- --



ANNEX 2
- 76 -                                            Table 5
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO)
Factory Performance (1989-1993)
Actual
--------------------------- -Etimate   Budget
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
-------------------------------------------------------------------__------
First Crop
__________
Tons cane ('000)                    958      872       676    1,197    1,264
Pol 2 cane                         8.72     8.83      9.09    10.20     9.89
Fiber S cane                      18.33    19.93    19.25    19.42    18.51
Imbibition S Fiber               210.19   197.99   204.94   206.88   212.30
Mill extraction                   88.36    86.85    87.49    88.89    89.31
Boiling House Recovery            82.69    82.87    81.18    86.47    85.61
Overall Recovery                  73.06    71.97    71.02    76.87    76.47
Purity first expressed juice      77.36    78.04    78.01    80.59    79.80
Purity mixed juice                75.89    76.59    76.55    79.10    78.30
Purity final mole                 33.00    33.57    33.54    32.51    31.75
Boiling House Efficiency          97.07    97.07    95.08    98.25    97.47
Pol S sugar                       98.05    98.13    98.09    98.30    98.25
Tons pol recovered ('000)            61        55       44       94        96
Tons sugar ('000)                    62        56       45       95        97
TC/TS                             15.39    15.44    15.19    12.53    12.99
Tons molasses ('000)                 39        30       26       41        44
Second Crop
.__________
Tons cane ('000)                  1,582    1,133    1,621    1,730    1,919
Pol 2 cane                         8.85     8.79      9.39     9.59     9.77
Fiber S cane                      19.02    19.65    19.32    18.66    18.53
Imbibition S Fiber               208.64   212.37   184.88   211.91   211.68
Mill extraction                   87.72    87.30    87.65    88.54    89.29
Boiling House Recovery            82.26    82.34    84.77    85.15    85.25
Overall Recovery                  72.16    71.88    74.30    75.39    76.12
Purity first expressed juice      77.33    76.94    79.03    78.78    79.34
Purity mixed juice                75.89    75.44    77.57    77.28    77.82
Purity final mols                 33.27    32.77    32.96    31.69    31.75
Boiling House Efficiency          96.79    96.96    97.93    97.79    97.47
Pol S sugar                       98.10    98.13    98.22    98.25    98.25
Tons pol recovered                  101       72       113      125      143
Tons sugar                          103       73       115      127      145
TC/TS                             15.36    15.53    14.08    13.59    13.21
Tons molassoe                        64       45        61       78       68
Total for the Year
__________________
Tons cane                         2,541    2,005    2,298    2,927    3,183
Tons sugar                          165      129       160      223      243
TC/TS                             15.37    15.49    14.39    13.14    13.12
Tons molasses                       103       75        87     119      112
---------------------------------------------------------------------__  ----



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Cane Area and Sugar Production by Estate 1991
Area          Cane           Sugar
Gross Area    Harvested     Production     Production
Estt           (Acres)       (Acres)        (Tons!         (Tons)
Berbice
Skeldon       11,867        9,438        221,471         15,501
Albion        19,907        17,922       506,216         37,907
Rose Hall     15,731        14,438       238,888         23,948
Blairmont     13.488        10,964       318.575         23,565
Sub-total     60,993       52,672       1,385,150       100,921
Demerara
Enmore        12,992        8,068        179,223         10,403
LBI/Diamond  23,013        10,831        234,693          14,198
Wales          8,830        6,048        126,161          7,898
Uitvlugt      16,171         8.779       198.659          15,234
Sub-total     61,006       33,726        738,736         47,733
Estate Total   121.999        86.398      ,2123.88         148.654
Farmers Contribution                                        11.036
Industry Total                                             159.69



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
Cane Area and Sugar Production by Estate 1992
Area          Cane         Sugar
Gross Area    Harvested    Production    Production
Estt          (Acres)      (Acres)       (Tns!          (Tns)
Berbice
Skeldon      11,867       10,341       343,319        27,783
Albion       19,911       18,682       591,006        48,428
Rose Hall    15,731       14,894       432,456        35,839
Blairmont    13,488       11,826       425,439        36,905
Sub-total    60,997       55,743     1,792,220       148,955
Demerara
Enmore       10,532        8,774       271,788        17,257
LBI/Diamond  23,013       11,665       358,332        24,266
Wales         8,000        6,814       192,986        14,664
Uitvlugt     16,171        9,207       248,038        21,765
Sub-total    57,716       36,460     1,071,144        77,952
Estate Total    118.713     92.203      2.863.364      226.907
Farmers Contribution                                    16,103
Industry Total                                         243.010



ANNEX 2
Table 7 a
- 79 -
GIIYANA SUJGAR CORPORATTON L TD
1992 Actual SuBar Sales and Ex_ected 1993 Sales
1992 ACTUAL SALES
_________________
Revenue    Price     Exch  Revenue    Price
Market                      Tons       X         G$M   G$/ton      rate    US$ M      US$
FFC                      193,995     80.0%   15,279   78,759   127.50    119.8   617.72
OiSA                      28,217     11.6%    1,537   54,471   124.91       12.3   436.10
World market               7,824      3.2%       189   24,204   125.92       1.5   192.22
Caricom                    1,747      0.7%        66   37,835   123.90       0.5   305.37
InC.Al                    10,592      4.4%       520   49,078   127.50       4.1   384.93
Total sales              242,375    100.0%   17,591   72,578   127.24    138.3   570.41
nldduct: Openina stock    14,200               1,123   79,057   127.50       8.8   620.05
Addhack: Stock losses      27.30
Add: Closing stock        14,808                 352   23,750   125.00       2.8   190.00
Value of produc.tion     243,010              16,820   69,216   127.17    132.3   544.27
1993 BlJDGET SALES
_________________
Revenue    Price     Exch  Revenue    Price
Tons                G$M   G$/ton      rate    US$ M       US$
FFC                      160,000     64.5%   11,817   73,856   125.00       94.5   590.85
IISA                      13,000      5.2%       731   56,231   125.00       5.8   449.85
World market              35,000     14.1%       S31   23,743   125.00       6.6   189.94
Caricom                   16,000      6.5%       503   31,438   125.00       4.0   251.50
Local                     24,000      9.7%    1,176   49,000   125.00        9.4   392.00
Total sales              248,000    100.0%   15,058   60,718   125.00    120.5   485.74
Deduct: Opening stock    14,808                  352   23,750   125.00       2.8   190.00
Add: Closing stock         9,701                 230   23,750   125.00       1.8   190.00
Value of production      242,893              14,937   61,495   125.00    119.5   491.96



GUYANA SUGAR INDUSTRY RECONSTRUCTION AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana sugar Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Sugar Prices
(Pro-ected  1-92-20-2-
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002
Price UIP/T?.                                          349.51   340.00   331.50    323.00   314.50   306.00   306.00   306.00   306.00   304.00   306.00
Exchange Late MP to US$                                   1.80      1.70      1.70       1.70      1.70      1.70      1.70      1.70      1.70      1.70     1.70
xchlange late G$ to UIP                                221 00   221.00   221 00    221 00   221.00   221.00   221 00   221.00   221.00   221.00   221.00
xchane  blate OS to US$                                 123.00   123.00   123.00    123.00   123.00   123.00   123.00   123.00   123.00   123.00   123.00
Price 0?$/S                                             77,242   75,140   73,262    71.363   69.505   67,626   67.626   67.626   67.626   67.626   67.626
Price US$1?/T.                                             628       611       596        580       565       550       330      550        550       550      550
Price  S /$1b                                             0.29      0.28      0.27       0.26      0.26      0.25      0.25     0.25       0.23      0.25     0.25
Quatity Shipped
Outtux.  UIht ( 000 ToM)                               163       163       163         163      163        163      164       164        164      164       164
Outturn valum (CKP OOO)                             56,970   55,420   54,035    52,649   51.264   49,878   50.184   50,1$4   50,194   50,154   50,184
Polorisatio  Priuem  at 2.81 (UP'000)                1,595    1,552    1,513        1,474    1.435    1,397    1.405    1.405    1.405    1,405    1.405
GROSS        S                                      538.565   56,972   55.547    54,123   52.699   51.275   51,589   31,359   51,559   51.539   51,589
Treight *t UP 25/to                                 3,165    4,075    4.075        4.075    4.075    4.075    4.100    4,100    4,100    4,100    4.100
Marine Inurance at 0.222                                129      125        122-       119       116       113       113      113        113      113       113
OS8S PRCE DVO                                       35,271   52,771   51.350    49,929   48,508   47,087   47,376   47,376   47.376   47,376   47.376
Pre -hipuet  c cnee
Demurrag  despatch) at loading port st 0.242            (67)     127        123        120       116       113      114       114       114       114       114                             1
Inr ace at .1IX                                        61        56        56         55        53        52        52        52        52        52        52
Weilau ad Su ervisiom  at UIP 0.25/tom                      37        41        41         41        41        41        41        41        41        41        41                             G
Brere   at .5                                              290       264       257        250       243       235       237       237       237       237       237
Conniae*oa  at .75Z                                        415
54,556   52,282   50,573    49,464   48,055   46,646   46,932   46,932   46,932   46.932   46,932
Discount charg  at 0.501                                   246       264       257        250       243       235       237       237       237       237      237
Cost of rmittance                                            0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
IIT  P50D 6S                                        54,310   52,016   50,616    49,214   47,812   46,410   46,695   46,695   466895   466,93   46,695
Not Proc      eed, UP/T.                                   333       319       311        302       293       285       285       255       285       265      285
met Proceeds  5/Toe                                     73,635   70,526   656,27    66,726   64,525   62,924   62,924   62,924   62.924   62,924   62,924
Not Proceeo d   S$/To.                                     599       573       556        542       527       512       512       512       512       512      512
not Proceeds USil                                         0.27      0.26      0.25       0.25      0.24      0.23      0.23     0.23       0.23     0.23      0.23
_____________________________ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
World Merhet - lank ProjectiLa
-___________
1985 Cmetast Dollars/aM                                    133       131       131        139       161       167       187      167        187       167      199
1991 Costant DollareItW                                    211       208       206        220       255       296       296      296        296       296      315
US$Jlb                                                0.10      0.09      0.09       0.10      0.12      0.13      0.13      0.13      0.13      0.13      0.14
PM 
cr 



ANNEX 2
Table 9
-81-
GUYANA
SUGAR INDITSTRY RESTRUCTURING -ND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (CUYSUCO)
Audited Financial Statments (1965-1991)
G$ million)
DALANCE SHEET
AS OF DECEMBER 31                              1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990       1991
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------------___-----
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits                            0.8      0.5    166.0       1.6    510.4     193.0    1,050.0
External Paymnt Deposits A/                  9.7     12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0        12.0
Receivables/Prepaymnts                      21.5     86.3    146.5      73.1    174.1     229.4    1,091.1
Inventories
Materials and Supplies                   143.5    144.3    241.1     258.0    465.0     900.9    2,640.3
Livestock                                  0.0      0.0      0.0       0.5      1.0       2.9        12.2
Unsold Produce                            32.7     32.3    108.1      72.1    285.9     155.0    1,292.2
Total Current Assets                     208.2    275.4    673.7     417.3  1,448.4   1,493.2    6,097.8
Investments                                     2.8      2.9      3.2       2.5      2.5       2.5        2.5
Fixed Assets (Net)                            152.8   159.6   274.1    449.3   658.9    845.0    2,445.6
Deferred Assets                                 5.4      4.4      5.5       5.1      6.1       3.7        0.8
TOTAL ASSETS                             369.2    442.3    956.5     874.2  2,115.9   2,344.4    8,546.7
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Overdraft                                  212.0     43.9      9.0      17.6    230.4      11.5      281.2
Long-term Loans (Current portion)           25.7     24.8     46.4      70.8    229.5     276.5      703.8
Payables/Accruals                          113.1    114.2    211.0     208.8    468.1     605.4    2,065.0
Export Sales Levy                            0.0      0.0   406.5    201.5   729.6        962.1    3,100.0
Taxes Payable                                0.7      4.7      0.8       2.6      3.4       5.3       15.2
Total Current Liabilitles                351.5    187.6    673.7     501.3  1,661.0   1,860.8    6,165.2
Long-term Loans
Tennant Guaranty Limited                     9.9     10.5     23.9      23.9     78.8     107.5      293.1
Lloyds Bank Limited                         12.3     13.3     15.7      15.6     15.6      15.6        15.6
Inter-American Development Bank              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     62.7     205.7      853.2
Guyana Agr. and Ind. Development Bank        0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     21.0       0.0       21.0
Supplier's Credit                            0.0      0.0      0.0      12.0     14.5       0.0      227.4
Other Long-term Loans                        3.5      1.0      6.8      34.4     98.7       2.1        0.0
Long-term Loans                           25.7     24.8     46.4      85.9    291.3     330.9    1,410.3
Less:  Current Portion                    25.7     24.8     46.4      70.8    229.5     276.5       703.8
Total Long-term Loans                      0.0      0.0      0.0      15.1     61.8      54.4      706.5
Government Debenture                          143.6    143.6    143.6     146.6    145.6     144.6       143.6
Other Liabilities                              14.9     14.9     14.9      14.9     14.9      14.9        14.9
_____   ------    ------  ------    -------   -------   -------
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        510.0    346.1    832.2     677.9  1,883.3   2,074.7    7,030.2
_____   ------   ------   ------    -------   -------   -------
EQUITY
Share Capital                              273.5    498.5    498.5     498.5    498.5     498.5      498.5
Reserves                                    70.7     73.0     80.4     142.1    144.1      145.5    1,348.0
Retained Earnings (Losses)                (485.0)  (475.3)  (454.6)   (444.2)  (410.0)   (374.3)    (330.0)
_____   ------    ------  ------     ------    ------    ------
TOTAL EQUITY                            (140.8)    96.2    124.3     196.4    232.6     269.7    1,516.5
_____   ------    ------  ------     ------    ------    ------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND ZQUITY             369.2    442.3    956.5     874.3  2,115.9   2,344.4    8,546.7
......                         ._        . .......    .   . 
---------------------------------------------------------,----__------------__-------------------------------



-82-                                          ANNEX:2
Table 9
GUYAN A
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (wSUCO)
Audited Financial Statements (1985-1991)
G$ million)
.______________________________________________________________________-------__---__________________________-
INCOME STATENT
FOR TER YEAR ENDZD DZCXERZ 31                   1985      1986     1987      1988      1989      1990        1991
Factories                                          10       10        8         8         8         8           8
Acreage Harvcstod                            107,526  112,875  106,039    85,823   86,303    91,372        93,307
Tons Cans Killed ('000)                        3,218    3,348    3,100      2,480    2,548      2,019       2,293
Yield:
Tons Cane/Acre                              29.93    29.66    29.23      28.90    29.56      22.10       24.57
Tons Cane/Tons Sugar                        13.24    13.64    14.03      14.80    15.41      15.54       14.36
Tons Sugar/Acre                              2.26     2.17      2.08      1.95      1.91      1.42        1.71
Tons Sugar                                   243,000  245,440  220,995   167,550  164,800   129,920    159,690
PRODUCTION ALLOCATION (Tons)
U.K.                                         178,522  158,359  144,833   133,433  154,022   129,767    159,430
U.S.                                          15,525    4,700    9,550          0    6,957          0           0
World                                         20,017   46,426   20,504          0         0         0           0
Caricom                                          479    4,124    1,575      1,395         0         0           0
Local                                         28,457   31,831   44,533    32,722    3,821         153         260
Imported Sugar (Tone)                              0        0         0     3,445   25,623    28,411      23,615
Nolasees ( 000 Callon&)                        19,506   21,614   19,962    16,741   15,375    11,474       13,363
=-. ....  _._ __  __ .............................................................. ..... .......... _-_..........-
SALES
Sugar                                       327.0    407.0  1,039.7      768.5  2,482.7   3,671.8   13,023.2
Molasses                                      5.2      20.6     34.9      23.4      42.8      70.2       293.1
Othor                                         1.3       1.9      4.3       7.2      20.2      52.2       103.7
TOTAL SALES 1/                            333.5    429.5  1,078.9      799.1  2,545.7   3,794.2   13,420.0
lxport Sales Lavy
Amount Due                                   162.0   232.1    477.5      334.1  1,201.5   1,736.0    6,330.3
Amount Remitted by Goverunent               (162.0)  (232.1)   (71.0)   (249.1)  (448.1) (1,024.9)  (2,066.4)
0.0      0.0    406.5      85.0    753.4      711.1    4,263.9
NET SALES                                 333.5    429.5    672.4      714.1  1,792.3   3,083.1    9,156.1
EXPENDITURE
Fmploymnt Costs
Wages and Salaries                         158.8    171.7    236.6     256.5    377.5      618.0    1,828.4
Incentive Payment                           4.8      14.4     21.3       7.8     57.3       80.4      457.7
Other Employee Benefits                    20.7      21.5     36.3      38.6      80.3     282.1       417.6
Materials and Other Charges                  171.3   186.5    295.0      305.1    984.1   1,780.7    5,892.4
355.6    394.1    589.2     608.0  1,499.2   2,761.2    8,596.1
OPERATING RESULTS BEFO y     LOCAL SUBSIDY      (22.1)    35.4     83.2     106.1    293.1      321.9       560.0
AND INTEREST
Local Subeidy                                    0.0       0.0     53.1      89.9    241.6      282.2       178.9
Interact Kxpenses                               55.7      21.6      9.6       4.8      16.6       1.2      322.8
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                               (77.8)    13.8     20.5      11.4      34.9      38.5       58.3
Provision for Taxea                              0.0       4.3      0.0       1.1       0.8       2.9        13.9
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                               (77.8)     9.5     20.5      10.3      34.1      35.6        44.4
Extraordinary It m                                0.2      0.1      0.2       0.0       0.1       0.1         0.0
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                               (77.6)     9.6     20.7      10.3      34.2      35.7       44.4
1/ Not of sugar inductry specLal funds contributions, chipping and selling expenses.



-83  -                                                 ANINEX 2
Table 9
SUGAR  INDUSCTRY RESTR5?RINR   N PRIVATIZATION  PROJECT
Guyana Sugar  orporat on                       R                 PROJECT
Audited Funde Statements (1985-1991)
,G$ million)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__------------------__-____----_-
PUNDS STATEMZNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECZMJZR 31                      1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990         1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income (Lose) before Taxation               (77.8)    13.8       20.5       10.3      34.9        38.5        58.2
Adjustments for items not involving
the movement of fund.:
Depreciation                                   14.1      15.3      14.7       30.3      42.5        57.4        81.5
Provision for ex-gratia pensions                5.6       6.8       8.5        8.8      11.7        18.3        44.5
Unrealized los  on exchange on loan             1.9       1.7      15.7        0.8      73.4        67.1       471.4
Loss on diapocal of fixed assets                0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.7         3.9       100.6
Total Funds Generated from Operations           (56.2)    37.6       59.4       50.2    163.2        185.2       756.2
Funds from Other Sources
Share Capital                                   0.0    225.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0
Receipts from the Sugar Industry
Rehabilitation Fund                          2.8        2.3       2.4        1.3       2.2         1.5    1,202.5
Refund of Ex-gratia Pensions                 0.6        0.5       0.5        0.4       3.6        0.3          0.0
Loan. Received                               4.8        4.3      16.2       54.9    169.1       146.2       884.3
Disposal of Asset                             0.7       0.3       0.3        1.5       0.0        0.0          0.0
Deferred Cultivation Costs                    0.0       0.8       0.0        0.4       0.0        2.4          3.1
Sugar Quota Compensation Receipt              0.0       0.0       5.3       10.5       0.0        0.0          0.0
Sale of Investmnts                            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.7       0.0        0.0          0.0
Rehabilitation and Development Fund           0.0       0.0       0.0       50.0       0.0         0.0         0.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        (47.3)   270.8       84 .1     169.9    338.1       335.6    2,846.1
APPLICATION OF  UND S
Taxes Paid                                        0.0       0.0       4.0        0.0       0.0         1.0         3.9
Loan Repayments                                   3.5       6.8      10.3       13.2      38.2       174.7       277.2
Purchase of Fixed Assets                         33.5      22.5    129.6       207.0    252.8        247.3    1,782.7
Ex-gratil Penasons                                6.4       7.1       9.0        9.2       12.1       18.7        44.8
Deferred Cultivation Coats                        1.2       0.0       1.2        0.0       4.2         0.0         0:0
Purchase of Investments                           0.3       0.2       0.2        0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0
Deferred Liabilities                              0.3       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Deferred Receivable.                              0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                     45.2      36.6    154.3       229.4    307.3       441.7    2,106.6
NET CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                  (92.5)   234.2    (70.2)    (59.5)    30.8    (106.1)            737.5
-      --     -        --                  ---- - --- --
_______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ______



-84  -                                               ANNEX  2
Tablq 10
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Key Financiat Indicators (1985-1993)
(GS million)
Income Statement and
Balance Sheet Data                                                                                                           Est.     Sud.
As of December 31                                  1985     1986      1987       1988      1989       1990        1991       1992     1993
Revenue                                          333.5    429.5   1078.9        799.1   2545.7    3794.2    13420.2   16572.0  15662.5
Depreciation                                       14.1     15.3      14.7       30.3     42.5        57.4        81.5     300.0    425.0
Interest                                          55.7      21.6       9.6        4.8     16.6         1.2      322.8      228.0    162.5
Operating Income before Levy and Tax             -22.1      35.4    489.7       191.1   1046.5    1032.1       4823.9    5016.0   3612.5
Net Income                                       -77.6       9.6      20.7      10.34     34.2       35.7       44.42    1164.0       87.5
Current Assets                                   208.2    275.4    673.7        417.3   1448.4    1493.2       6097.8    3180.0    850.0
Fixed Assets                                     152.8    159.6    274.1       449.3    658.9         845      2445.6    3096.0   6075.0
Total Assets                                     369.2    442.3    956.5        874.2   2115.9    2344.4       8546.7    6276.0   6925.0
Current Liabilites                               351.5    187.6    673.7        501.3      1661    1860.8      6165.2    1896.0   2237.5
Long-term Debt                                        0        0         0       15.1     61.8       54.4        706.5    1416.0   1525.0
Total Debt                                       510.0    346.1    832.2        677.9   1883.3    2074.7       7030.2    3312.0   3762.5
Networth                                        -140.8      96.2    124.3       196.4    232.6      269.7      1516.5    2964.0   3175.0
RATIOS
Liquidity:
Current Ratio                                      0.6       1.5       1.0        0.8      0.9        0.8 .        1.0        1.7      0.4
Debt to Total Assets
Debt to Networth                                   -3.6      3.6       6.7        3.5      8.1        7.7          4.6        1.1      1.2
L.T. to Equity * Long-term Debt/Networth           0.0       0.0       0.0        0.1      0.3        0.2          0.5       0.5       0.5
Operating:
Fixed Assets Turnover                             2.18      2.69      3.94       1.78     3.86       4.49        5.49        5.4       2.6
Total Assets Turnover                             0.90      0.97      1.13       0.91      1.20       1.62        1.57        2.6      2.3
Profitability:
Profit Margin on Sales                           -23.3%      2.2%      1.9%       1.3%      1.3%       0.9%        0.3%       7.0%     0.6%
Return on Total Assets                           -21.0%      2.2%      2.2%       1.2%      1.6X       1.5%        0.5%      18.5%     1.3%
Return on Networth                                55.1%    10.0%    16.7%         5.3%    14.7%      13.2%         2.9%     39.3%      2.8%
Current Ratio * Current Assets/Current Liabilities
Debt to Total Assets = Total Debt/TotaL Assets
Long-term Debt to Equity a Long-term Debt/Networth
Fixed Assets Turnover - Sales/Fixed Assets
Total Assets Turnover * SaLes/TotaL Assets
Profit Margin on SaLes a Net Income/SaLes
Return on Total Assets a Net Income/Total Assets
Return on Equity X Net Income/Netwoth



-      85  -                         ANNEX 2
Table 11
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Projacted Cash Flow Statement (1993-1999)          (With Project/Without Hodernization)
(USS million)
Project                  Without Modernization
Est.      --------------   ---------___________________________
1992     1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
Sugar Production ('000 Tons)                            243       240       240       200        200       200       200       200
Molasses Production ('000 Tons)                                    100      100         80        80        80        80        80
Sales Allocation ('000 Tons)
Lome                                                 188       163       163       163       163       163        163       163
US                                                    28        13        13        13        13        13         13        13
Caricom Trade                                          2        16        16        16        16        16         16        16
Domestic                                              11        24        24         8         8         8          8        8
World Market                                           8        24        24         0          0         0         0         0
Sugar Prices (USS/Ton)
Lome                                                 618       591       558       542       527       512       512       512
US                                                   436       450       460       460       460       460       460       460
Caricom Trade                                        305       252       290       290       290       290       290       290
Domestic                                             384       392       393       393       393       393       393       393
World Market                                         192       190       208       220       255       296        296      296
Molasses Prices                                           30       30        30        30         30        30        30        30
Sugar Sales
Lome                                               116.2      96.3      90.9      88.4      85.9      83.4      83.4      83.4
Us                                                  12.2       5.9       5.9       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0
Caricom Trada                                        0.6       4.0       4.0       4.6       4.6       4.6       4.6       4.6
Domestic                                             4.2       9.4       9.4       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1
World Markat                                         1.5       4.6       4.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Sugar Sales                                134.8    120.2    114.8    102.2         99.7      97.2      97.2      97.2
Molasses Sales                                          3.3       3.0       3.0       2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4
Other Income                                                      2.1
TOTAL INFLOW                                       138.1    125.3    117.8    104.6    102.1          99.6      99.6      99.6
Operating Costs
Agriculture                                         51.9      53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3
Factory                                             15.7      15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6
Administration                                      26.2      24.1      24.1      24.1      24.1      24.1      24.1      24.1
Total Operating Costs                             93.8      93.0      93.0      93.0      93.0      93.0      93.0      93.0
Capital and Replacement Costa
Agriculture                                                    9.1       8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2
Factory                                                       13.7       5.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Administration                                                 3.4
8.7     26.2       13.8       8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2
Contingency Capital Costs at 52                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4
Total Capital Coats                                8.7      26.2      13.8       8.6       8.6       8.6       8.6       8.6
Working Capital                                                   1.9       0.4       0.3       0.7        0.1       0.1       0.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                    102.5    121.1    107.2    101.9    102.3    101.7    101.7    101.6
NET CASS FLOW BEFORE FIENANCING                        35.6        4.2     10.6       2.7      (0.2)     (2.2)      (2.2)    (2.1)



ANNEX 2
-86 -                                         Table  11
CUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING 6ND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation LTmited (CUTSUCO)
Projected Financial Statementa (1993-1999)        (With Project/Without Modernization)
(USS millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__--------------------------_----------..
Project                 Without Modernization
BALANCE SHEET                                        lst.      --------------   ------------------------------------------
AS OF DECEMBER 31                                    1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                           (17.2)   (38.8)   (44.2)   (53.6)   (66.5)   (81.8)   (96.8)  (111.4)
Receivables                                       10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0
Inventories                                       33.7     35.6      36.0     36.3      37.0      37.1      37.2     37.2
Total Current Assets                            26.5      6.8       1.8     (7.3)   (19.5)   (34.7)   (49.6)   (64.2)
Fixed Assets at Beginning of Year                    20.5     29.2      55.4      69.2     77.8      86.4      95.0    103.6
Add:   Additions and Replacements                   8.7     26.2      13.8       8.6      8.6       8.6       8.6      8.6
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                     3.4      6.8      12.8     20.1      28.4      37.5      47.4     58.2
Net Fixed Assets                                25.8     48.6      56.4     57.7      58.1      57.6     56.2      54.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                    52.3     55.4      58.3     50.4      38.6      22.9       6.6    (10.1)
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Taxes Payable                                      5.2      0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Dividends Payable                                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Other Payables                                    10.6     17.5      17.5      17.5     17.5      17.5      17.5     17.5
Total Current Liabilities                       15.8     17.9      17.5     17.5      17.5      17.5     17.5      17.5
Long-term Liabilities
Government Loan                                    1.1      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2
Foreign Borrovings                                10.7     11.0      22.0     21.0      19.0      16.0      13.0     10.0
Local Borrowngs                                    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Long-ctrm Liabilities                     11.8     12.2      23.2     22.2      20.2      17.2      14.2     11.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               27.6     30.1      40.7     39.7      37.7      34.7     31.7      28.7
EQUITY
Paid-in Capital
Govermnmnt                                      4.1      4.1       4.1      4.1       4.1       4.1      4.1       4.1
Other Investors                                 0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Retained Earnings                              10.9     20.6      21.3     13.5       6.6      (3.2)   (15.9)   (29.2)
Current Year Profit                                9.7      0.7      (7.8)    (6.9)    (9.8)   (12.7)   (13.2)   (13.8)
TOTAL EQUITY                                    24.7     25.4      17.6     10.7       0.9    (11.8)   (25.1)   (38.8)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                    52.3     55.4      58.3     50.4      38.6      22.9      6.6    (10.1)
fla      ... .. .. ....   .. .....  .  .....   ......   ......
Debt/Equity Racio                                     1.1       1.2      2.3       3.7     44.3      -2.9      -1.3     -0.7
Current Ratio                                         1.7      0.4       0.1      -0.4     -1.1      -2.0      -2.8     -3.7
Debt Ratio (Total Liabilities/Total Assets)            53S      542       702       792      982      152X      4782    -2832
--------------------------------------------------_---------------___--------__---------------------------------------



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Table 11
GUYANA
SUGAR JNDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
CuyanA 5ugr Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Projected Financial Statemento (1993-1999)         (With Project/Without Modernization)
(US$ millions)
_______ ____-_------- -----_____________-_--------------_---------_-______--______-- - -- -  ___-- - - --   -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -.-- -- -
Project                 Without Modernization
INCOME STATEMENT                                      Est.     --------------   ----------------------_______________
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31                        1992      1993     1994      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
SALES
Sugar                                             134.8    120.2    114.8    102.2       99.7      97.2      97.2      97.2
Molasaes                                            3.3      3.0       3.0       2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4
Other Income                                                 2.1
TOTAL SALES                                     138.1    125.3    117.8    104.6    102.1        99.6      99.6     99.6
Sugar Lovy                                      25.0      26.5      25.0      8.8       8.6       8.3       8.3      8.3
NET SALES                                       113.1     98.8      92.8     95.7      93.5      91.2      91.2     91.2
OPERATING/ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Agriculture                                     51.9      53.3      53.3     53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3     53.3
Factory                                         15.7      15.6      15.6     15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6      15.6
Administration                                  26.2      24.1      24.1     24.1      24.1      24.1      24.1     24.1
93.8     93.0      93.0        93       93        93        93        93
Depreciation                                        2.5      3.4       6.0      7.4       8.2       9.1      10.0      10.8
OPERATING EXPENSES                                    96.3     96.,4     99.0    100.4    101.2    102.1    103.0    103.8
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE INTEREST AND TAX              16.8      2.4      (6.2)    (4.6)    (7.8)   (10.9)   (11.7)   (12.6)
Interost on Loans                                      1.9      1.3       1.6       2.2      2.1       1.8       1.5       1.2
Corporate Tax (352)                                    5.2      0.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                      9.7      0.7      (7.8)    (6.9)    (9.8)   (12.7)   (13.2)   (13.8)
.... ..... .........  .. -.........-......   ...... ..........   ...... ..........   ...... .........   ......
Ratios:
Operating Income/Saleo                             12.1%     1.9%    -5.2%    -4.41    -7.6X   -10.92   -11.8%   -12.72
Oporating Income/Average Total Assets              63.3%     4.51   -10.9%    -8.5%   -17.4S   -35.41   -79.62   716.12
Net Income/Sales                                    7.0%     0.6%    -6.6%    -6.6%    -9.6%   -12.7%   -13.3%   -13.8S
Net Income/Average Equity                          39.2%     4.5%   -37.6%   -31.3%   -77.9%  -292.02   229.52    73.5t
-----_ -----------_ ---------------------  ------------------------__  -----------_  --------------__---------------_---__-



-88 -
ANNEX 2'
Table 11
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (CUYSUCO)
Projected Funds Statement  (1993-1999)              (With Project/Without Modernization)
(US$ million)
Project                    Without Modernization
FUNDS STATEMENT                                             Est.       --------------   ------------------------------------------
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31                              1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources
Net Income (Loss) bef. Int./Tax after Levy              16.8        2.4       (6.2)      (4.6)      (7.8)    (10.9)    (11.7)    (12.6)
Add:  Depreciation                                        2.5       3.4        6.0        7.4        8.2        9.1       10 0      10.8
Total Funds Generated from Operations                 21.3        5.8       (0.2)      2.7        0.5       (1.8)      (1.8)      (1.8)
Share Contribution
Government                                               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Other                                                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Sub-Total                                              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Borrowings
Government                                               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Foreign                                                  0.0        8.0       12.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Other                                                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Sub-Total                                              0.0        8.0       12.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                21.3       13.8       11.8       2.7        0.5       (1.8)      (1.8)      (1.8)
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Purchase of Assets                                       8.7       26.2       13.8        8.6        8.6        8.6        8.6       8.6
Increase in Working Capital                             (4.2)      (0.2)       0.8        0.3       0.7         0.1       0.1        0.0
Interest                                                 1.9        1.3        1.6        2.2        2.1        1.8        1.5       1.2
Loan Repayments                                          0.6        0.7        1.0        1.0        2.0        3.0        3.0       3.0
Corporate Tax                                            0.0        0.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Other Payable.  (incl. Sugar Levy)                      28.8        6.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                            35.8       35.4       17.2      12.1       13.4       13.5       13.2       12.8
NET CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                         (14.5)    (21.6)       (5.4)     (9.4)    (12.9)    (15.3)    (15.0)    (14.6)
Closing Cash Balance                                       (17.2)    (38.8)    (44.2)    (53.6)    (66.5)    (81.8)    (96.8)   (111.4)
Debt-Service Coverage Ratio                                  5.6        2.6       (0.1)      0.8        0.1       (0.4)      (0.4)      (0.4)
----------------------------------------------------------             ------_   _-------  _- ____--__--------------------------------



- 89 -
ANNEX 2
Table 12
GUYNA
SU,GAR  INDUSTRY RESTRCTUR N    AND. PRIVATIZATION  PROJECT
yana Sugar Corporation  imted ( SUCO)
Projected Cash Flow Statea¢nt (1993-1999)        (With Project and Modernization)
(USS million)
Project                   With Modernization
Est.     -------------      ----------------------------------------
1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998      1999
Sugar Production ('000 Tons)                          243      240       240      250       250       250       250      250
Molasses Production ('000 Tons)                       100       100      100       100      100       100       100      100
Sales Allocation ('000 Tone)
Lome                                               188      163       163      163       163       163      163       163
US                                                  28       13        13       13        13        13        13       13
Caricom Trada                                        2       16        16       20        20        20       20        20
Domestic                                            11       24        24       24        24        24       24        24
World Market                                         8       24        24       30        30        30       30        30
Sugar Prices (USS/Ton)
LOme                                               618      591       558      542       527       512      512       512
US                                                 436      450       460      460       460       460      460       460
Caricom Trade                                      305      252       290      290       290       290      290       290
Domestic                                           384      392       393      393       393       393      393       393
World Market                                       192      190       208      220       255       296      296       296
Molasses Prices (USS/Ton)                              30        30       30        30       30        30        30       30
Sugar Sales
Lome                                             116.2     96.3      90.9     88.4      85.9      83.4     83.4      83.4
US                                                12.2      5.9       5.9      6.0       6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0
Caricom Trade                                      0.6      4.0       4.0      5.8       5.8       5.8      5.8       5.8
Domestic                                           4.2      9.4       9.4      9.4       9.4       9.4      9.4       9.4
World Market                                       1.5      4.6       4.6      6.2       6.6       7.7      8.9       8.9
Total Sugar Sales                              134.8    120.2    114.8    115.9    113.7    112.3    113.5    113.5
Molasses Sales                                        3.3       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
Other Income                                                    2.1
TOTAL INFLOW                                     138.1    125.3    117.8    118.9    116.7    115.3    116.5    116.5
Operating Costs
Agriculture and Field Infrastructure              51.9     53.3      53.3     30.1      28.6      28.6     28.6      28.6
Factory                                           15.7     15.6      15.6     20.6      18.4      18.4     18.4      18.4
Administration                                    26.2     24.1      24.1     20.0      20.0      24.1     24.1      24.1
Total Operating Costs                           93.8     93.0      93.0     70.7      67.0      71.1     71.1      71.1
Capital and Replacament Costs
Agriculture and Field Infrastructure                        9.1       8.2      8.2       7.9       7.7      7.8       8.0
Factory                                                    13.7       5.6     16.0      15.7      15.0      5.3       5.3
Administration                                              3.4
8.7     26.2      13.8     24.2      23.6     22.7      13.1      13.3
Contingency Capital Costa at 5I                    0.0      0.0       0.0      1.2       1.2       1.1      0.7       0.7
Total Capital Costs                              8.7     26.2      13.8     25.4      24.8      23.8     13.8      14.0
Working Capital                                                 1.9      0.4       0.3      0.7       0.1       0.1      0.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  102.5    121.1    107.2      96.4      92.5      95.0     85.0      85.1
NET CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                       35.6       4.2     10.6      22.5     24.2      20.2      31.5     31.4
-----------------------  -----------------------   -------------------__-  -----___---- -_--------   ----------------------



-90-
ANNEX 2
GUYANA                                                                                                Table  12
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTR Q RN                    RIVATIZATION  PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation       to   0
Projected Financial Statements (1993-1999)         (With Project and Modernizacion)
(USS million)
Project                   With Modernization
BALANCE SHET                                          Eat.     -------------       ----------------------------------------
AS OF DECEkMBR 31                                     1992      1993     1994      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                           (17.2)   (38.8)   (44.2)   (22.9)   (12.3)   (10.0)          5.0      10.3
Receivabloe                                        10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0
Inventories                                       33.7      35.6      36.0     36.3      37.0      37.1      37.2     37.2
Total Current Assots                            26.5       6.8       1.8     23.4      34.7      37.1      52.2     57.5
Fixed Assets at Beginnin  of Tear                     20.5     29.2      55.4      69.2     94.6    119.4    143.2    157.0
Add:   Addition. and Replacments                     8.7     26.2      13.8     25.4      24.8      23.8      13.8      14.0
Lass:  Accumulated Depreciation                      3.4      6.8      12.8     20.1      30.0      42.4      57.2      73.4
Not Fixed Assets                                25.8      48.6      56.4     74.5      89.3    100.8       99.8      97.6
TOTAL ASSETS                                    52.3      55.4      58.3     97.8    124.0    137.9    152.0    155.1
............. ......... ......... ........   ...... .........   ...... .........   ...... .........   ......
LIAEILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Taxes Payable                                      5.2       0.4       0.0     10.4      10.0       7.2       6.8       6.4
Dividends Payable                                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       3.7       2.7       2.5       2.4
Other Payables                                     10.6     17.5      17.5      17.5     17.5      17.5      17.5      17.5
Total Current Liabilities                       15.8      17.9      17.5     27.9      31.2      27.4      26.8     26.2
Long-team Liabilities
Goverrment Loan                                     1.1      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2
Foreign Borrowings                                10.7      11.0      22.0     27.0      30.0      32.0      31.6      25.8
Local Borrowings                                   0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Long-term Liabilities                     11.8      12.2      23.2     28.2      31.2      33.2      32.8     27.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               27.6      30.1      40.7     56.1      62.4      60.6      59.6     53.2
EQUITY
Paid-in Capital
Govornment        )                             4.1       4.1       4.1      4.1       4.1       4.1       4.1      4.1
Other Investors  )                              0.0       0.0       0.0      5.0      10.0      15.0      20.0     20.0
Retained Earnings                              10.9      20.6     21.3      13.5      32.7      47.5     58.2      68.3
Current Year Profit                                9.7       0.7      (7.8)    19.2      14.8      10.7      10.1      9.5
TOTAL EQUITY                                    24.7      25.4      17.6     41.8      61.6      77.3      92.4    101.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                    52.3      55.4     58.3      97.8    124.0    137.9    152.0    155.1
............. ......... ....... ._......   ...... .........   ...... .........   ...... .........   ......
Debt/Equity Ratio                                      1.1      1.2       2.3       1.3      1.0       0.8       0.6       0.5
Current Ratio                                          1.7      0.4       0.1      0.8       1.1       1.4       1.9       2.2
Debt Ratio (Total Liabilities/Total Assets)             532      542       70S       57Z      502       442       392       342
-----_--------------------------------_------_-------------------_--- __------..     -----------------------------__   --------



91Qi  -                                    ANNEX 2
Table 1i2
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corpuration TLiited (GUYSUCO)
Projected Financial Stataemnts (1993-1999)         (With Project and Modernization)
(USM million)
--------_____------------------------------------------------------.........................-------......---....-..-.......------------------.........----.__  --_--__-______
I                                    Project                    With Modernization
INCOME STATEMENT                                      Eat.      -------------      --------------------------------------__
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31                        1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999
-------------------------------_-----------------------------------__-----_--___---___-----------_------------_____-_-
SALES
Sugar                                            134.8    120.2    114.8    115.9    113.7    112.3    113.5    113.5
Molasses                                            3.3      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
Other Income                                                 2.1
______ ------      ------    ------   ------    ------    -- --     ..__.. .. .__
TOTAL SALES                                    138.1    125.3    117.8    115.9    116.7    115.3    116.5    116.5
Sugar Levy                                      25.0      26.5      25.0      5.8       a.6       8.3       8.3      8.3
______ ------      ------   _ ____.   . . -- --  -- --    ------    .. ..___.... ____
NET SALES                                      113.1      98.8      92.8    110.0    108.1    106.9    108.1    106.1
OPERATING/ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Agriculture                                     51.9      53.3      53.3     30.1      28.6      28.6      28.6     28.6
Factory                                         15.7      15.6      15.6     20.6      18.4      18.4      18.4     18.4
Administration                                  26.2      24.1      24.1     20.0      20.0      24.1      24.1     24.1
93.8     93.0        93     70.7        67      71.1      71.1      71.1
Depreciation                                        2.5      3.4       6.0      7.4       9.9      12.4      14.8      16.1
OPERATING EXPENSES                                    96.3      96 .4    99.0      76.1     76.9      83.5      85.9      87.2
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE INTEREST AND TAX              16.8       2.4     (6.2)    32.0      31.2      23.4      22.3      20.9
Interest on Loans                                      1.9       1.3      1.6       2.4      2.7       2.9       2.9       2.7
Corporate Tax (352)                                    5.2       0.4      0.0      10.4     10.0       7.2       6.8       6.4
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                      9.7       0.7     (7.6)    19.2    1i.5        13.4      12.6      11.8
......   ....... .... museum. . ...... .....==..  ......   memo... .... ........ .................. ...
Appropriation:
Dividends                                                        0.0      0.0       0.0      3.7       2.7       2.5       2.4
Retained Earnings                                      9.7       0.7     (7.8)    19.2      14.8      10.7      10.1       9.5
Racios:
Operating Income/Sales                             12.1!      1.92    -5.2S    26.9S    26.86    20.32    19.12    17.92
Operating Income/Average Total Assets              63.32     4.52   -10.92    40.92    26.22    17.92    15.42    13.62
Net Income/Sales                                    7.02     0.62    -6.62    16.22    15.92    11.62    10.82    10.22
Nec Income/Average Equity                          39.22     4.52   -37.61    51.32    57.12    24.52    17.02    13.62
-------------------------------_------------------------------.....-----.-.-...--.--.-----------------_______________



-92-                                           ANNEX 2
Table 12
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation TLiited (GUYSUCO)
Projected Funds Statements (1993-1999)       (With Project and Modernization)
(USS million)
I                                  Project                   With Modernization
FUNDS STATEMENT                                     Est.     ---__----          ___________________________________-_
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31                      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources
Net Income (Loss) bef. Int./Tax after Levy       16.8      2.4     (6.2)    32.0      31.2     23.4      22.3     20.9
Add:  Depreciation                                2.5      3.4      6.0      7.4       9.9     12.4      14.8     16.1
Total Funds Generated from Operations         21.3       5.8     (0.2)    39.3      41.1     35.8      37.0     37.0
Share Contribution
Government                                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Other                                             0.0      0.0      0.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      0.0
Sub-Total                                      0.0       0.0      0.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      0.0
Borrowings
Government                                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Foreign                                           0.0      8.0     12.0      6.0       5.0      5.0       4.0      0.0
Other                                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Sub-Total                                      0.0       8,0     12.0      6.0       5.0      5.0       4.0      0.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        21.3      13.8     11.8     50.3      51.1     45.8      46.0     37.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Purchase of Assets                               8.7      26.2     13.8     25.4      24.8     23.8      13.8     14.0
Increase in Working Capital                     (4.2)    (0.2)      0.8    (10.1)    (2.6)      3.9       0.7      0.5
Interest                                          1.9      1.3      1.6      2.4       2.7      2.9       2.9      2.7
Loan Repayments                                  0.6       0.7      1.0      1.0       2.0      3.0       4.4      5.8
Corporate Tax                                     0.0      0.4      0.0      10.4     10.0      7.2       6.8      6.4
Other (incl. Sugar Levy)                         28.8      6.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Dividends                                                  0.0      0.0      0.0       3.7      2.7       2.5      2.4
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                     35.8     35.4     17.2     29.1      40.5     43.5      31.1     31.7
*      NET CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                  (14.5)   (21.6)    (5.4)    21.2      10.6      2.3      15.0      5.3
...fl. .=.... Mn.- ..7.. ... .7.....-
Closing Cash Balance                               (17.2)   (38.8)   (44.2)   (22.9)   (12.3)   (10.0)       5.0     10.3
Debt-Servica Coverage Ratio                          5.6      2.6     (0.1)     8.6       6.6      4.9       4.1      3.6
-------------------  ------------------- ------------------  ----------__------_  -------------------  ------------------



GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited (GUYSUCO)
Sugar Levy (1990-1995)
(GS million)
Actual                   Estimate 1/     Proj.
1990    1991    1992      1993     1994     1995
EEC Sales
Number of Tons ('000)         130      160     188       163      163     163
Price (G$'000/Ton)           25.2     72.5    78.8      73.9     69.8     67.8
Total EEC Sales           3,276   11,600   14,814   12,046   11,377   11,051
Sugar Levy Due                 1,736    6,330    8,148    6,625    6,258    1,105
as % of Total EEC Sales        53%      55%     55%       55%      55%      10%
Rebate from Government         1,025    2,066    5,148    3,313    3,129
as % of Sugar Levy Due         59%      33%     63%       50%      50%
Sugar Levy Payable               711   4,264    3,000    3,313    3,129    1,105
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---
1/ Based on GUYSUCO'S 1990/1991 actual data and 1992 estimates.
2/ Assuming an agreed 10% sugar levy at time of modernization.
CD4



- 94 -
ANNEX 3
GUYANA: RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
OF THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
As part of its ongoing program to liberalize and restructure
economic activity, the Government of Guyana intends to restructure and
privatize the sugar industry. The Government wishes to engage the services
of qualified consultants to assist it to define the specific elements of an
appropriate strategy for such a purpose and to help carry out such
restructuring and privatization.
1. BACKGROUND
1.1         The sugar industry is the most important component of the
agricultural sector in Guyana. It has historically accounted for up to 50% of
the total value of agricultural production; it occupies almost two-thirds of
cultivated land, provides more than half the wage employment in the sector
and earns more than 75% of the foreign exchange from agricultural exports.
A number of factors contributed to a serious decline in this sector in the
1980's, however, and production in 1990 was less than half the average level
of the first half of the decade. The decline in sugar alone accounted for 60%
of the decline in GDP over the period.
1.2         The Government of Guyana began a major recovery program
in the sugar industry in 1990. Through an aggressive replanting program,
the replacement of worn agricultural and factory equipment, and improved
management of operations, the programs led to significant increases in sugar
production. Output in 1991 rose 23 % over 1990 to about 160,000 tons; 1992
production reached 240,000 tons, a further increase of 47%. This level is
expected to be maintained in 1993.
1.3         With the exception of a small share of cane land cultivated by
outgrowers, all resources committed to the sugar industry are owned or
leased by the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO). The company's eight
factories currently process about 2.5 million tons of cane harvested from
about 95,000 acres of irrigated land. It employs 28,000 people, and is
currently managed under contract by Booker Tate, Ltd.
1.4         To sustain, in the long run, sugar output in the range provided
by present and expected markets, and to generate the maximum net benefit
from this industry for the economy, the Government recognizes that a large
financial investment program must be carried out. To ensure the required
supply of capital, technology and committed management to the industry, the
Government seeks to privatize and restructure GUYSUCO. To that end, the



- 95 -
ANNEX 3
Government wishes to engage the services of qualified consultants who can
develop the strategic elements to achieve such objectives and assist in its
implementation. These services, for which proposals are hereby invited, will
be financed from the proceeds of a credit from the International Development
Association (IDA) which will also provide funds for emergency investments
in the industry while the restructuring and privatization takes place.
2. SCOPE OF WORK
2.1         The major tasks of the consultancy are to develop a strategy
for the restructuring and privatization of GUYSUCO, and implement such
strategy. To carry out these tasks, the scope of work will be divided into
two phases. The first phase will involve the: (a) definition of a regulatory
environment framework for the sugar industry; (b) benchmark valuation of
GUYSUCO; (c) design of an Employee Stock Ownership (ESOP) for the
industry; and (d) development of a strategy for the restructuring and
privatization of GUYSUCO. The second phase will consist of a series of
tasks to facilitate the implementation of the strategy adopted by the
Government for the industry, including: (a) mobilization of private
financing; (b) negotiation with interested investors; and (c) implementation of
ESOP.
Phase I
2.2         The strategy to be prepared in this phase will have as its main
objective the restructuring and privatization of the sugar industry. It will
draw on the technical and valuation analyses of the industry conducted by
GUYSUCO and internationally funded specialists in the last two years; and,
the policy objectives and priorities and financial requirements of the
Government which would be agreed at the early stages of the work of the
consultants.
2.3         In the preparation of the draft strategy, the consultants will
undertake the following tasks:
(a)   prepare a restructuring and privatization plan for the sugar
industry, in full or by breaking it up in several packages,
through private placement and/or public offering and on the
basis of market soundings and (b) to (d) below.
The consultants will provide alternatives for the restructuring
and privatization of the sugar industry, and analyze the
financial, economic and social impact of the proposed plan
relative to each alternative in a manner that would enable the
Government to select an alternative. The consultants will
develop a list of potential participants in the restructuring and
privatization of the industry. In developing such list, the



- 96 -
ANNEX 3
consultants will review the potential major providers of funds,
local and offshore, in both equity and debt markets; the local
capital market in terms of structure, taxation issues, the
constraints to issuance of securities and Guyanese underwriting
capabilities; etc.
(b)   carry out a benchmark valuation of GUYSUCO.
To arrive at a benchmark valuation of GUYSUCO, the
consultants will review and update basic projections, taking
into account capital investment needs.
(c)   propose a mechanism whereby employees of GUYSUCO can
acquire equity in the company.
The Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) or similar, will
include a means of determining eligibility and allotment of
rights, suggestions for interim funding of the sale of shares,
proposed amendments in GUYSUCO's bylaws, as required, to
permit multiple owners to participate efficiently in the
operations of the company, and forms of management that will
be most effective. The plan will also address the issue of the
proportion of shares to be included in an employee plan, and
present the rationale for the share recommended.
(d)   develop a regulatory framework for the industry.
The consultants will undertake a review of the existing
legislation and regulations which govern the activities of the
sugar industry; identify those issues which impinge on the
efficient operation of the sugar industry; and develop a
regulatory framework for the sugar industry which will take
into account the eventual majority private sector ownership of
GUYSUCO and the Government's economic and social
concerns. These issues would include, in=  aia, access to
preferential sugar markets; access to foreign exchange; an
appropriate sugar levy formula; ownership, lease and use of
land and water; corporate taxes; labor relations; cane payment
formula; and sugar importation policy and local sugar prices.
Phase H
2.4         The specific tasks to be undertaken in this phase will include
the following:
(a)   prepare all necessary materials for the implementation of the
restructuring and privatization strategy adopted for the



- 97 -
ANNEX 3
industry, including: (i) placement memoranda/prospectus,
request of proposals, etc.; (ii) a promotional campaign
program in the case of a public offering in Guyana;
(iii) disclosure information; (iv) review of the Environmental
Assessment of GUYSUCO to determine possible contingent
liabilities due to environmental issues; (v) a draft contract for
the bidding process by private investors; and (vi) a detailed
implementation program, identifying key actions/stages in the
process, quantitative measures of their completion, and a
proposed timetable.
If the strategy calls for the breaking up of GUYSUCO into
several packages, the consultants will prepare a briefing
package for each of the major asset groups that comprise the
industry. In most cases, these groups will be a factory and its
associated estates. If the strategy revolves around GUYSUCO
as a single entity, the consultants will produce a consolidated
briefing package, consisting of physical and financial
information on the firm as a whole.
The form and content of these documents will be agreed with
Government, but the purpose will be to attract the interest of
serious prospective bidders with the knowledge and experience
to be valuable long-term participants in the sugar sector. To
that end, the process should provide comprehensive
information to interested parties, perhaps in successive stages,
and provide for site inspection and consultation with officials,
managers and key operating personnel. The process should
also provide for the preliminary demonstration of earnest on
the part of prospects by requiring them to incur cost, perhaps
in terms of time and travel, to benefit from the briefings to be
provided.
(b)   develop a criteria evaluation system for the assessment of
proposals from private placement offerings.
The Consultants will develop a set of evaluation criteria for
consideration by the Government, taking into account the long-
term objectives for the industry, the social and economic
importance of the industry, and the anticipated concerns of
prospective investors. Upon adoption of criteria by
Government, the Consultants will prepare necessary procedures
and documentation for the evaluation process.
(c)   prepare a promotional strategy and campaign and disclosure
information and assist Government in implementing public
offerings.



- 98 -
ANNEX 3
The strategy will include draft solicitation announcements and
will provide guidelines for the development of background
material and conduct of visits required by prospective investors
and financiers. It will also entail direct approach to potential
investors by the Consultants for solicitation and evaluation.
(d)   assist the Government during negotiations with prospective
investors until agreement is reached and the investment is
completed.
The Consultants will brief government negotiators on issues
likely to arise during negotiations, conduct background analysis
and inquiries to assist in reaching satisfactory conclusions,
assist in the negotiation process, and draft documentation
which may be required to confirm the outcome of negotiations
and pursue actions that may be precedent and necessary for the
completion of investment, including transfer of title and deed
and payment and other financial arrangements.
(e)   implement the ESOP designed in Phase I.
The consultants will assist in the initial implementation of the
adopted ESOP, and ensure that the plan is operational.
3. ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND OUTPUT
Organization
3.1         The consultants to be appointed following this solicitation will
work in close collaboration with the Government, through a Privatization
Board and a Privatization Unit. The Unit would work with the consultants,
facilitate consultations with interested parties, and recommend a final strategy
for submission to the Board and to Cabinet. While they will be expected to
participate in joint work programming and review exercises, the Consultants
will be solely responsible to carry out the actual work described in these
terms of reference.
3.2         As executing agency for the Japanese Grant Facility, under
which Phase I of the assignment will be financed, the World Bank will
supervise the work of the consultants in Phase 1. The Government will
supervise Phase II of the assignment, in close consultation with the World
Bank.



- 99 -
ANNEX 3
Expertise Required
3.3          Key expertise required for the assignment includes, inter alia,
investment banking, sugar specialist, financial analyst, ESOP specialist and
legal assistance.
Deliverables and Timetable
3.4         The consultants should be ready to begin work within one
month of the signature of the contract. The following is the required output
(reports), which the consultants may use in preparing a detailed work plan
that responds fully to the requirements of the assignment, for submission with
their proposal. The consultants are required to submit 20 copies of each
report. The consultants are expected to provide in their proposals tentative
descriptions of the contents and coverage of each report.
Rorts                                 Timing
Phase 1:                                No later than
6 months after
1)  Draft Regulatory Framework and          initiating work
Final version of Regulatory Framework
2)  Valuation Report
3)  Draft ESOP and
Final version of ESOP
4)  Restructuring/Privatization Options
for the Industry and
5)  Selected Restructuring/Privatization Strategy,
(including determination of the capital share
of GUYSUCO to be offered for sale)
Phase 1I:                                   No later than
5 months after
Implementation Materials                    completion of
(Placement memoranda/prospectus, request for   Phase I
proposal, promotional campaign program, evaluation
criteria for assessing proposals, implementation
plan)
If appropriate: Final documentation for the completion of privatization.



- 100-
ANNEX 3
Other
3.5         The Government of Guyana reserves the right to reject any or
all offers from prospective buyers if this is thought to be in their best interest
without being subject to any kind of compensation or complaint from the part
of the Consultants.



- 101 -
ANNEX 3
DATA. SERVICES AND FACILTIES TO BE PROVIDED
BY THE CLIENT AND THE WORLD BANK
The client (Ministry of Finance) will facilitate access to all
available data relevant to the assignment including GUYSUCO
and their operations.
The client will also make available, free of charge, appropriate
office space for the team while in Georgetown. This will include
utilities, local telephone and fax services, and reasonable
secretarial and photocopying support.
The client will assist the consultants with arrangements to visit
Guyana, and will facilitate field visits within Guyana by the
consultants' personnel, however, all travel and accomodation
expenses are responsibility of the consultants.
The World Bank will make available appropriate documents to
the consultants.



- 102 -
SUGGESTED FORMAT OF CURRICULUM VITAE
FOR MEMBERS OF CONSULTANT'S TEAM
Name
Profession
Years with Firm                 Nationality
Proposed position on Team
K&y Qualificafigns:
Under this heading, give outline of staff member's experience and
training most pertinent to assigned work on proposed team. Describe
degree of responsibility held by staff member on relevant previous
assignments and give dates and locations. Use up to half-a-page.)
Education:
(Under this heading, summarize college/university and other
specialized education of staff member, giving name of schools, date
attended and degrees obtained. Use up to a quarter page.)
Experience Records:
(Under this heading, list all positions held by staff member since
graduation, giving dates, names of employing organization, title of
positions held and location of assignments. For experience in last ten
ye, also give types of activities performed and client references,
where appropriate. Use up to three-quarters of a page.)
Date
Signature of Staff Member



WORK PROGRAM AND THE SCHEDULE FOR KEY PERSONNEL
MONTHS
Man-Months   No. of
Name         Position       1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8 9  10  11  12        Field Home    Round Trips
Total                                              o
Reports Due/Activities and Duration
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Field Full Time                     / Part TIme
Home Office Full lime              / Part Time
Reports Due       *
Activities Duration



- 104-
ANNEX 4
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING
AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT BY THE GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
ON A STRATEGY FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
OF ITS SUGAR INDUSTRY
1.         The sugar industry, Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO),
constitutes Guyana's main agricultural and industrial activity contributing
about 15% of GDP. It is the country's leading export, accounting for over
40% of foreign exchange earnings and the main source of fiscal revenue.
With about 27,500 employees, it also accounts for 10% of total employment
in the country, not counting the many independent farmers who produce
sugarcane for GUYSUCO.
Background
2.          The two sugar companies operations accounting for total sugar
production were nationalized with compensation in the mid-1970s and
consolidated into a wholly Government-owned parastatal, operating eight
sugar factories producing, at the time, 350,000 tons of sugar annually.
Production declined to about 250,000 tons by the early 1980s following a fall
in world sugar prices.
3.          Production continued to decline steadily throughout the eighties
as a result of a variety of factors, including a generally unfavorable
macroeconomic policy environment and inappropriate industry policies which
drained financial resources and foreign exchange from the company.
Financial problems were compounded by ensuing serious difficulties on the
production side. Agricultural, field infrastructure and processing plant and
equipment deteriorated, the supply of spare parts and agricultural inputs was
inadequate, and industrial relation conflicts developed in the wake of
deteriorating compensation which also dramatically eroded managerial and
technical manpower capabilities and lowered labor participation. By 1990,
sugar production had declined to 130,000 tons. This output level was well
below Guyana's combined preferential quotas of 164,000 tons to the EEC
and 16,000 tons to the USA. The likely partial loss of the EEC quota due to
non-performance posed a serious threat to the existence of the sugar industry
in the country.
Recent Developments
4.          Since the late 1980s, Guyana embarked on an Economic
Recovery program, aimed at restoring and accelerating economic growth and
at eliminating the serious internal and external imbalances that have affected



- 105 -
ANNEX 4
the Guyanese economy as a result of inconsistent macroeconomic policies and
mismanagement.
5.          In pursuing the recovery of its sugar industry, the Government
will tackle the issues of poor managerial and technical capacity, lack of
access to technology improvements and as a way of mobilizing the extemal
financing required to carry out the investments necessary to bring about the
industry's rehabilitation, rationalization and modernization so as to ensure its
long-term sustainability. As a first transitional step, the Government selected
and contracted in 1990 an experienced and qualified sugar management firm
to: (i) take over all day-to-day operations of GUYSUCO; (ii) prepare a
feasibility study for the rehabilitation, rationalization and modernization of
the industry; and (iii) identify private and official financing sources for the
investment program to be proposed under the feasibility study. Under
private management, improved compensation to workers and favorable
climatic conditions GUYSUCO has staged a remarkable recovery, with
output increasing to about 240,000 tons in 1992. The target for 1993 is
248,000 tons and performance to date indicates that this target is likely to be
achievcd. However, for GUYSUCO to efficiently reach its optimal
production or even maintain, over the medium- to long-term, present
production levels (and continue to meet its existing and possibly higher quota
levels), the industry would require a level of financial investment well
beyond the Government's existing and future capacity. During the near
term, while Government seeks private investment for the financing of the
industry's needs, the Government has requested the International
Development Association (IDA) to assist in the financing during the next 24
months of urgently required factory and field infrastructure plant and
equipment in the nature of an interim minimum approach to sustain present
production levels, as well as of a team of experienced and qualified financial
advisors to assist Guyana in privatizing GUYSUCO.
Privatizatlon and Rehabilitation Phase
6.          The Government is committed to a restructuring and
privatization of GUYSUCO, in a fair and transparent way with the assistance
of financial advisors to be selected by December 1993, to attract the
necessary infusion of private equity capital, and to assure efficient
management of the company in a policy and regulatory framework designed
to ensure meaningful participation by the workers and the private sector
within an efficient and competitive environment, while safeguarding
government revenues under an appropriate fiscal regime. The advisors will
be requested to submit their complete set of recommendations by July 1994.
The Government and IDA then will agree on an action plan to restructure
and privatize GUYSUCO. It is the Government's intention in selecting
private financial participation in GUYSUCO, to actively seek investors that
would have the qualifications and experience to deal with the managerial,
technological, marketing and financial requirements of the industry. It is also
seeking in the process to attract investors that would be willing to have a



- 106 -
ANNEX 4
meaningful equity stake in GUYSUCO. Toward this end, a Request for
Proposals would be agreed with IDA by October 1994. The Government
will endeavor to complete the process by March 1995.
7.          The privatization process, as set out in the Privatization Policy
Framework Paper passed by Parliament on July 16, 1993, would include: (i)
flexibility in privatizing the industry to take into account prevailing market
conditions; (ii) setting up of an appropriate and transparent regulatory
framework (to be established with the assistance of the financial advisors and
IDA) to secure adequate Government revenues and foreign exchange while
providing clear rules for private investors and operators; (iii) providing an
opportunity for ownership participation by GUYSUCO's workers through an
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP); and (iv) preparation of a
comprehensive financing plan, including the investor's willingness to
mobilize resources to finance at least its share of the rehabilitation stage
without resort to Government subsidies.
8.          While implementing steps towards the restructuring and
privatization of GUYSUCO, it is the Government's intention to: (i) maintain
the present status of GUYSUCO, i.e., operated as a commercial concern,
and as a self-sufficient and independent business entity; (ii) ensure that
qualified and experienced management is maintained in the key corporate
positions and that appropriate compensation is provided linked to their
performance; and (iii) retain the present sugar levy, based on the agreed
formula and the existing foreign exchange retention policy. These
parameters would be reviewed as part of establishing the new regulatory
framework.
9.          In concluding, the Govemment has embarked on a
comprehensive and consistent program for the recovery of its sugar industry.
The program is a key part of its Economic Recovery Program aimed at
restoring and accelerating economic growth through increasing the role of the
private sector in the economy and at eliminating the serious intemal and
extemal imbalances that have affected the Guyanese economy in recent years.
The Govemment hopes that the World Bank Group will join this effort and
help the country implement this program.
Very truly yours,
Asgar Ally
Minister of Finance



- 107 -
ANNEX 5
GUYANA
SUGAR INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited - Investment Plan - Stage I
Report, Booker/Tate, August 1991
Volume I                 - Executive Summary & Main Report
Volume II, Annex 1       - Financial and Economic Analysis
Volume III, Annex 2      - Option Selection
Volume IV, Annex 3       - Agriculture and Field Infrastructure
Volume V, Annex 4        - Factories
Volume VI, Annex 5       - Market Survey
Volume VI, Annex 6       - Organization, Training and Industrial
Relations
2.    Supplemental Report on Review of Booker/Tate revised Guyana's
Investment Plan and Privatization Project Study together with a
Capital Cost Project Budget and Cash Flows, F.C. Schaffer and
Associates, Inc., April 3, 1992
3.    GUYSUCO's Capital Budget 1993
4.    Privatization Policy Framework Paper (June 1993)






MAP SECTION






6    8   >''  f   GUYANA           .                S             \                   ,            @                      u        +                     IBRD 24649
SUGAR INDUSTRY                                                               Atlon ic    Ocean
SUR INAM~E
A,'-
Cin~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I                                                 \                                                         
DECLARED DRAITAE  AD S RIDAI  AREAs
4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~PARTIAL DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION AREAS
',  ' \                    ~~~~~~S-d HI                                   :N\                                            
,<dS  ;    <                   4       0        <                                                   _            )        X @        *    NATIONAL CAPITAL                9    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDONL APTA
C~ ~       \55                                                                           ~X~1Phi  1nl
--                                                                                                            Sl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IKE AND NATER CONSERVANCY
\~-GUYANA                                                                                                                                                                                                   FUTUR
+  , G  U Y  A N    > it      F R E N C H                          K o ,t o b,   ,                                                                                                                 -   -  IN T E R N A TI O N A L  E O J N D A RIE S
,       \ SURINAJE   '\ GUIANA       -                                                                                     X
L  Sg. E*., =d,d.
B R A Z I L                                                                                                          IF. D-d S.~~~~ Ek -  T         r 
BRAZIL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    .         ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         R-



