Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23766-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR
INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 30, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 2001)
Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
RMB1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = RMB8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            =        Country Assistance Strategy
CBMS           =        China Bridge Management System
CPMS           =        China Pavement Management System
CREMA         =         Contract for Rehabilitation and Maintenance
EA             =        Enviromnental Assessment
EAP            =        Environmental Action Plan
EIA            =        Environmental Impact Assessment
E&M            =        Electrical and Mechanical
HNIP           =        Highway Network Improvement Program
IST            =        Institutional Strengthening and Training
IMCD           =        Inner Mongolia Communications Department
LACI           =        Loan Administration Change Initiative
LJH            =        Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
MMS            =        Maintenance Management System
MOC            =        Ministry of Comrnunications
MOF            =        Ministry of Finance
NTHS           =        National Trunk Highway System
PAD            =        Project Appraisal Document
PCD            =        Provincial Communications Department
PIC            =        Public Information Center
PMO            =        Project Management Office
RAP            =        Resettlement Action Plan
RDB            =        Road Data Bank
SDPC           =        State Development and Planning Commission
VOC            =        Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:  Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Supee Teravaninthom, Senior Transport
Economist, EACCF



CHINA
INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         13
2. Financial                                                                         14
3. Technical                                                                        14
4. Institutional                                                                     14
5. Environental                                                                      15
6. Social                                                                            17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                19



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   19
2. Critical risks                                                                   19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          20
2. Other                                                                            20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         31
Appendix A                                                                   39
Annex 5: Financial Sunmmary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  41
Appendix A: Laoyemiao-Jining Highway Income Statement                        45
Appendix B: Laoyemiao-Jining Highway Assumptions for Financial Forecasts     48
Appendix C: Laoyemiao-Jining Highway FIRR Simulation and                     49
Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Appendix D: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five-Year Plan      50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          67
Annex 11: Summary of Financial Management System                                       69
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                             74
Annex 13: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan                                      81
Annex 14: Strengthening and Reforming Highway Maintenance                              85
Annex 15: Implementation Plan                                                          91
MAP(S)
1. IBRD 31682
2. IBRD 31683
3. IBRD 31684



CHINA
Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: April 30, 2002                             Team Leader: Supee Teravaninthom
Country Director: Yukon Huang                    Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P070459                              Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $100.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: OI Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (USSm):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                    168.73           0.00        168.73
IBRD                                                          0.00         100.00        100.00
Total:                                                      168.73         100.00       268.73
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: INNER MONGOLIA COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Address: No. 68 Saihan District, Dizhiju South St. Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, Post code 010020, China
Contact Person: Mr. Bao Jianshe, Deputy Director of IMCD
Tel: (0471) 6968813          Fax: (0471) 6967588           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
::IFY.           2003     2004       2005      2006       2007      2008
Annual      7.00     16.00     30.00      18.00     13.00      16.00
Cumulative     7.00     23.00      53.00     71.00      84.00    100.00
Project implementation period: April 2002 to September 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to improve the efficiency, safety, and cost-effectiveness of the transport infrastructure to
support the social and economic development of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and to improve
accessibility to its poorer areas thus reducing social and economic disparity within the region.
To meet this development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
a. Increased transport capacity and promoted market integration in the most important east-west
corridor of Inner Mongolia linking its key industrial, administrative, and hub cities in Inner
Mongolia
b. Improved accessibility to poor areas in Inner Mongolia through the Highway Network
Improvement Program (HNIP)
c. Enhanced public sector management of the road network in Inner Mongolia by strengthening
institutional and management measures and introducing a pilot program for road maintenance by
contract
d. Improved road safety.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal outcome or impact indicators selected for monitoring progress toward the project
development objective are:
a. Reduction in the time spent for interprovincial and intraprovincial trips through lower costs and
shorter distances on a more efficient highway system
b. Reduction in the number of days that the road network is closed to traffic
c. Reduction in traffic accident fatality rates
d. Strengthened capacity for managing road maintenance.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321-CHA dated 1997/02/25, and Progress Report R-98-107 dated 05/28/1998
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 28, 1998
A new CAS is being prepared and is scheduled to be discussed by the Board in Spring 2002. The Bank's
strategic objectives include promoting sound macroeconomic management and a market-oriented
institutional and social-services delivery system, addressing regional inequalities, and making development
sustainable. To reach these strategic objectives, the CAS identifies transport infrastructure development as
a key area for Bank support. The sector-specific goals supported by the project, in line with the CAS
objectives, are to:
a. Promote macroeconomic growth and regional market integration by financing a key link to the
National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), thus facilitating intraprovincial and interprovincial
trade and commerce, especially in the Westem Region, where economic development lags far
behind the country's average
b. Address regional inequalities and reach the absolute poor through effective investment in improving
accessibility to low-income counties
c. Provide support to the introduction of market-oriented mechanisms for infrastructure construction,
operation, and maintenance
-2 -



d. Promote a sustainable agenda in this sector through continued attention to traffic safety and
environmental and social considerations in highway design, construction, operation and
maintenance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
The Bank recently completed several key sector works on China, including:
A Strategy for the Transport Sector (Forward with One Spirit, 1997/98)
*   China Review of Highway Technical Assistance (1998/99)
* OED Report on China Transport (1998/99)
*   China Highway Sector Strategy Review (2001).
The most recent work, the China Highway Sector Strategy Review, was completed and discussed with the
Government in late 2001. This review identified the main challenges faced by China's highway sector:
sector management, managing road expenditures, managing road revenues and financing, enhancing
accessibility to remote/low income areas, and traffic safety.
Sector management. Transforming the Government into a market-supporting institution is one of the
largest transition issues facing China today. In the highway sector, the Government's role in providing
infrastructure (construction and maintenance) and transport services is shifting gradually from that of
owner, investor, and manager to one of regulator. As regulator, the Government must oversee and
encourage the development of more independent enterprises (in some cases, not owned by the state) that can
provide cost-effective civil works and services. The pace of such a transformation varies widely with the
level of development of the provinces, especially between coastal and interior provinces.
Managing road expenditures. The sector should strive to increase efficiency and minimize the costs of
providing infrastructure. Efforts of the Provincial Communications Departments (PCD) to improve their
operations, while rationalizing and minimizing the cost of operations, should cover all activities of a road
administration, from planning to design, construction and maintenance of roads at all levels.
Planning. There is a need for more discriminating investment analysis, starting with planning. It will
be necessary for the country to be more selective when planning its road expenditures, even though
there is still a strong demand for additional investments in the road network. The allocation of funds
between maintenance and new construction remains a major problem.
Balance of expenditures. At present, the NTHS consumes 60 percent of the resources of the highway
sector. With the high-priority NTHS nearing completion, this balance of expenditures between classes
of roads should be reviewed carefully to detennine whether it continues to be an efficient allocation of
resources to support economic development. The need for careful analysis of future investments will be
especially important for projects proposed in the westem provinces, where the types and scale of
investments are likely to differ from those in the eastern provinces.
Construction quality. Highway construction quality remains a serious concem. Incidences of bridge
and road failings and premature wear and tear on highway pavement have raised high-level
Government officials' awareness of the issue. The problem has both technical and administrative roots.
Under some Bank-financed highway project, contractors, mostly domestic, are not always well
managed, frequently receive payments irregularly, and often come under pressure to shorten
construction periods. Although the central government values the Bank's involvement in improving the
supervision of design reviews and construction quality, there is still a need for construction quality
standards and their enforcement under future Bank loans.
- 3 -



Managing road revenues and financing. Traditional resources are inadequate to meet the increasing
demands placed on road infrastructure by a growing economy.
Road user charges. At present, the main road user charge is the road maintenance fee, which brings in
revenues of around RMB 30 billion a year. Other charges, including the vehicle tax, contribute
probably half as much as the maintenance fee. Road users thus bear a relatively large portion, about
one quarter, of annual road expenditures in the last two years. In addition, the road maintenance fee is
inefficient because it is expensive to administer yet easy to evade and it generates less than 40 percent
of its potential revenues.
Fuel tax. China has discussed introducing a fuel tax for some years, and although the National
Congress passed the Fuel Tax Resolution in November 1999, its implementation has been deferred
indefinitely.
Securitization. The sale of highway equity through initial public offerings (IPO) and private
placements has been an innovative feature of mobilizing private resources for the highway sector.
Unlike with build-operate-transfer projects, the securitization of highways already opened to traffic
greatly reduces investors' risks. The question is: How long can the securitization of existing road
assets continue, given the proliferation of road companies in all provinces? The number of highway
projects that can be marketed to private investors (those with strong traffic revenue potential) is
insignificant compared to the sector's resource requirements. Under these conditions, the Govenmuent
should focus on building a reliable and stable road user fee-based financing framework. At the same
time, regulatory reforms are necessary to open opportunities for different modes of public-private
partnerships, to mobilize domestic savings through the issuance of bonds and to broaden the investor
base.
Enhancing accessibility to remote and low-income areas. The geography of China creates great
difficulties in providing basic road access throughout the country, particularly in inner and low-income
provinces. Although the role of transport access in integrating the national economy, stimulating growth in
remote areas, and ensuring the basic mobility needs of the poor has been emphasized, providing this access
is an enormous task that requires significant public resources. The Bank's provincial highway program in
China aims to have a favorable impact on poverty levels through targeted interventions in low-income
areas. However, it is also understandable that government agencies often refrain from borrowing for this
purpose because no dedicated revenue source for loan repayment is easily identified (unlike for toll roads).
The Bank recommends a renewed effort to support road development in low-income areas as part of its
future lending and non-lending services for the sector.
Traffic Safety. Traffic safety remains a major issue. Although the death rate from traffic accidents has
decreased from 100 per 10,000 vehicles in the late 1970s to about 57 deaths per 10,000 vehicles in 1994,
the rate remains one of the highest in the world. In 1999, 83,500 people were killed and 286,000 injured in
more than 400,000 accidents. Besides deaths and injuries, accidents cause property damage, and their
overall economic and social costs are high. Improving road safety requires coordinated action in
engineering, education and enforcement. However, the current diffusion of responsibilities in these
different areas makes it difficult to address the problem in a comprehensive manner. MOC and the PCDs
must continue working on the engineering aspects of road safety, which fall under their responsibility.
MOC is planning systematic safety audits as part of project design, and a manual is being prepared that
will be circulated to the provinces soon. PCDs should improve their collecting and analyzing of accident
data and extend improvement programs for black spots (road sections with high accident rates). The
Bank's role so far has been confined largely to matters under the jurisdiction of its project executing
agencies, namely the engineering aspects of road safety. For traffic safety to improve dramatically, the
matter must be elevated to the highest levels of Government.
- 4 -



Government Strategy
The main concem of the central and provincial highway authorities is to ensure that the highway system
helps integrate China's national economy and facilitates the mobility of goods and services. This concem
corresponds to the comparative economic and technological advantages of highways vis-a-vis other modes
of transport and available financial resources. The investment priority for the highway subsector during the
Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) was to develop the NTHS rapidly, and to develop some 130,000 km of
provincial and rural roads that feed into the NTHS. Policy and regulatory reforms focused on financial
issues aiming to ensure the efficient utilization of funds.
Under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005), apart from continuing the unfinished agenda of NTHS
construction, the emphasis has moved toward economic development in the Westem Region. The 12
provinces making up the Westem Region cover 6 million square kilometers, about 60 percent of the
country's total land area, and accounts for 25 percent of the population. In 1995, 66 percent of industrial
output came from the east but only 10 percent from the west, with the remainder from central China. By
1998, per capita income in the east was three times that in the west. The west continued to be primarily a
supplier of raw material. It is estimated that in this century, 60 percent of raw materials and 50 percent of
the energy needs of the east will come from the west. There is great potential for processing primary
material and agriculture products in the west.
Massive investment in transport infrastructure is a key factor for realizing the economic potential of those
provinces and integrating them into the national market. The Govemment is developing a long-term,
three-pronged plan for the road sector:
*   East-west connections--MOC plans to develop eight corridors totaling about 15,000 km to link the
Westem Region with eastem China.
*   Network improvements within the Western Region-This will include rehabilitating and upgrading
the technical standards of about 180,000 km of the road network in the western areas.
*   Rural access--To alleviate poverty in rural towns and villages, about 150,000 km of rural roads
have been identified for improvement
This plan involves different types of works on 300,000 km of roads of various standards and classes and
will require US$84 billion over 10 years. The Govemment is exploring opportunities for mobilizing funds
for this plan, including ways to channel contributions from the eastem region and related budget transfer
mechanisms. Because of low population densities, low incomes and generally difficult topographic and
climatic conditions, costs of road development in the west will be high, and the potential for cost recovery
will remain limited for some time.
Highway sector institutional reforn is expected to intensify during the Tenth Five-Year Plan as the country
moves toward a more open and competitive economy. The reform agenda should include the following
features:
*   Adjust the role of govemment from that of highway builder and operator to one of effective
regulator by increasingly relying on contracted works and services and introducing technologies
and standards to improve supervision and control
*   Strengthen management efficiency in the decentralization process and reorganize the sector to
maximize the use of scarce resources through planning and programming (including greater use of
road databases, pavement management systems, and bridge management systems)
*   Identify highway financing methods to mobilize new sources of user charge-based revenues and
promote public/private financing mechanisms, including asset securitization and the mobilization
of national savings (bond issues)
- 5 -



*   Improve traffic safety while minimizing environmental and social impacts on people affected by
highway development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In addition to expanding highway capacity in the main east-west corridor of the province, the strategic
focus of the proposed project is to work in the relatively underprivileged areas of the country, stimulate
their economic growth and address trade and market integration by providing a cost-effective transport
network with improved access to seaports. The institutional development and policy initiatives focus on
improving the balance between road maintenance and new construction; introducing the market-oriented
system of road maintenance by contract; construction quality assurance; poverty relief; environmental and
resettlement requirements; and developing institutional capacity in provincial and local transport
departments. The project will address sector issues described in Section B.2.
Sector management. The project will pursue efforts to strengthen and modemize the institutional capacity
of the implementing agency, the Inner Mongolia Communications Department (IMCD), and its affiliated
agencies. The institutional strengthening and training (IST) component of the project aims to prepare
institutions and build their human capacity in line with the emerging role of the govenmment according to
national strategy. The IST component includes support for outsourcing, balancing of capital and
maintenance budgets, planning and management framework, improving construction quality, and managing
externalities such as environment and safety concems. It will help IMCD to establish a sound and balanced
expenditures program by making its Road Data Bank (RDB) and its Chinese Pavement Management
System (CPMS) operational. The full integration of both systems will make them more efficient
management instruments.
Improving construction quality. Strategic objectives of the physical construction components are to
improve engineering designs during project preparation and to strengthen construction supervision during
project implementation. These objectives will be met through the further enforcement of independent
supervision, following more strictly the FIDIC conditions of contract management. They also will ensure
the enforcement of all safeguard policies, including for the efficient procurement of works and services.
Sustaining road maintenance. The Bank's dialogue with IMCD on road maintenance under the previous
projects has raised awareness and understanding of the extent of the problem. The project will include a
pilot program of road maintenance by contract that has the strategic dimension of supporting IMCD policy
in changing its role in infrastructure works from direct execution to managing contracts. Under the pilot
activities, contractors will become responsible for the overall maintenance of a road over a multi-year
period. The pilot is expected to provide key insights to contract design and management issues and to set
the conditions for expanding maintenance by contract.
Enhancing accessibUity to remote and low-income areas. The project, through its Highway Network
Improvement Program (HNIP) component, will assist in improving road access to selected areas in Inner
Mongolia through maintenance, rehabilitation, upgrading and other improvements.
Road Safety. The highway safety component will continue and intensify safety efforts launched under the
ongoing Tri-provincial Highway project. The highway safety program under the Tri-provincial Highway
project includes: (i) a study of the effect of highway design features; (ii) development of a highway design
safety manual; (iii) a study of the factors contributing to traffic accidents; and (iv) a black-spot treatment
pilot program. Lessons leamed from the Tri-provincial Highway project will be analyzed and applied to the
proposed project. The black-spot treatment program will be institutionalized and standardized under the
proposed project.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
All components under the project have been designed to address the sector issues described in Section B.3.
Expansion of highway capacity. The construction of Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (L1H), an
approximately 90-km section of the NTHS, will link Laoyemiao and Jining in Inner Mongolia. The
proposed highway will become part of the most important east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia linking its
major industrial, administrative, and hub cities of Baotou, Hohhot, and Jining. Opening this section of the
NTHS will link Beijing to the northwestem region of China via Hebei and Inner Mongolia, and from there
to Ningxia, Gansu and Qinghai and will help accelerate economic growth in Inner Mongolia by integrating
its regional market to the national economy.
HNIP. Inner Mongolia is one of the poorest regions in China and is sparsely populated (see table below).
With road density one-third the national average, and only 25 percent of roads all-weather roads, Inner
Mongolia must increase its investment in lower road classes and all-weather roads. The HNIP component
aims to provide poor counties and townships with reasonable access to other villages and to provincial and
national highway systems. Of the 41 road sections that IMCD proposed, five were selected according to a
set of economic and social criteria defined by the Bank and IMCD to be financed under the project. The
selection criteria are summarized in Annex 2. The remaining road sections will be financed from domestic
resources.
Inner Mongolia         China            National Comparison
Total Land Area (thousand kln )            1,183              9,600  Third-largest
Total Population (million)                  23.6              1,242   2% of total (ranks 23rd)
Population Density (person/kIn2)             20                 130  28th
GDP per capita (Yuan) in 1999              5,350              7,060   16th (25% below national
average)
Highway Network (Iam)                     63,824           1,400,000  4.5% of country's network
Road Density (km/100 In 2)                   5.4               14.6   One-third of country average
All-Weather Roads (kIn)          15,900 (25% of all                   One-fourth of country average
roads in Inner
Mongolia)
Road safety improvement. Traffic safety in Inner Mongolia, as elsewhere in China, is an issue. The
number of people killed per 10,000 vehicles is at least 10 times higher than the rates of Western Europe
and North America, and traffic safety is expected to worsen unless action is taken to improve it. This
project will build on road safety data, studies, and manuals prepared under the ongoing Tri-provincial
Highway Project. This project also includes a more extensive program of black-spot.
- 7-



Institutional strengthening and training (aST). The large increase in highway investment in recent years,
which is expected to continue, and the reform agenda that IMCD envisages, require that IMCD
substantially strengthen its institutional capacity. The IST component, designed with input from IMCD
and the Bank during project preparation, combines technical assistance, training, and technology equipment
upgrading into a program designed to continue the IST activities under the Tri-provincial Highway project.
External funding arrangement for the IST activities will come from two sources:
* IBRD loan under the project will be used for staff training activities, and
* Technical Cooperation Credit 4 (TCC-4) will be used for the Technical Assistance (T/A) activities
to be implemented in parallel with the project.
The most challengingfeature of the T/A activities is the development of the maintenance management
system aiming to improve the maintenance budgeting and planing process of IMCD, and the pilot
program for maintenance-by-contract. This pilot program will take a road length of 100 kilometers that
IMCD has identified in Ulanchabu League, of which 40 lan requires rehabilitation. A multi-year
contract will require the contractor to rehabilitate this 40-km road section and carry out routine
maintenance for the entire 100-km length. The contract will be awarded competitively. The pilot is
tentatively scheduled to be launched during 2003. The timing is intended to ensure that the pilot is well
prepared and the timing does not affect other project activities. Before launching competition, IMCD,
with consulting assistancefinanced under the TCC-4, will need to carefully study the characteristics of
the contract, including its terms, performance targets, penalties, financing approach, and other details.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector        Costs     % of     financing    Bank-
(USSM)     Total     (US$M)    financing
1. Expand highway capacity by     Highways             185.84      69.2     77.85       77.9
constructing approximately 90 km of
the NTHS, connecting the major cities
of Inner Mongolia and its
interconnecting roads
2. Improve the highway network    Rural Roads           61.08      22.7      20.00      20.0
system, including the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the lower-class highway
network in poor areas
3. Improve road safety by upgrading  Transportation      2.10       0.8       0.63       0.6
selected dangerous key sections of road Adjustment
network
4. Strengthen highway management  Institutional          0.77       0.3       0.52       0.5
capacity of IMCD through training./Il  Development
Total Project Costs                  249.79       93.0     99.00       99.0
Interest during construction                 17.94        6.7      0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                      1.00       0.4       1.00       1.0
Total Financing Required                    268.73      100.0    100.00      100.0
/I     The indicative cost in the above table does not include the T/A program totaling US$1.5 million to be financed under the TCC-4
financing arrangement and implemented in parallel to the project.
- 8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Reform of road maintenance management, financed in parallel to the project but under TCC-4 funding
arrangement. The most interesting and challenging feature of the project is support to policy reform, on a
pilot basis, by the practice of maintenance by contract mentioned above. This practice recently has been
promoted by MOC and has already commenced in some provinces. In Inner Mongolia, contract works has
been limited to road rehabilitation and covers only 10-15 percent of the network. The pilot program of
maintenance by contract parallelly financed under the TCC-4 could help speeding up the implementation of
MOC's policy. The policy is in line with the recommendations of the recent Highway Sector Strategy
Review, which indicated that reform in maintenance management is currently one of the most critical
aspects of highway sector reform.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will accelerate economic growth and thus improve living standards in Inner Mongolia and the
neighboring Ningxia Autonomous Region and Gansu Province, which are among China's lowest-income
areas. The major quantifiable benefits are reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and time costs of
road users. The estimated distribution of the project benefits shows that traffic that diverts to LJH
constitutes the majority of the road user's benefits (61.4 percent), and that car and truck traffic will benefit
the most from the project (73.5 percent). The nonquantified benefits include a reduction in traffic accidents
and improved accessibility to poorer areas of Inner Mongolia (summary in Annex 4). Improved
accessibility, in turn, will generate both direct and indirect benefits of improved access to job opportunities,
education and health-care facilities. It is estimated that an additional 20 percent of school age children will
be able to attend school following the rehabilitation of the roads under the HNIP component.
Furthermore, the project aims to improve the quality of construction by introducing improved technology
and stricter supervision of construction. The project also will foster improved practices in environmental
protection, land acquisition, resettlement of affected people, and participatory approaches to project
preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
IMCD has overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. It will be directly responsible
for formulating and implementing institutional and policy reforns, including training and the road traffic
safety program. It will oversee the overall development and implementation of the environmental and
resettlement components. A Project Management Office (PMO) has been established under IMCD and is
headed by deputy director of IMCD. The PMO will assume overall implementation and coordination
responsibility for all components and every aspect of the project, especially the preparation and
implementation of the LJH component, including its design, procurement, construction, supervision,
environmental and resettlement aspects. The PMO will also assume the leading role in the implementation
of the HNIP component, although day-to-day responsibilities of HNIP execution will lie with the Baotou
Municipal Communications Bureau and the Ulancabu Prefecture Communications Bureau where the five
HNIP road sections are located.
The project will be implemented during 2002-2007. Overall direction of the project at the central level will
rest with the Ministry of Communication (MOC) in Beijing. The Bank loan will be lent to the Borrower,
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which in tum will on-lend the loan proceeds to Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region on the same conditions as the Bank loan.
-9-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Main highway component The feasibility study considered four alternatives: doing nothing, upgrading
the existing main road (NRI 10) to a Class I highway, building an expressway in two stages, and building
an expressway in one stage. The altematives were compared on the basis of costs, benefits, services to
rural cities, and relationship to future economic development. NRI 10 is a two-lane Class II road that runs
parallel to the proposed highway alignment and connects Inner Mongolia and Hebei province, with a
hazardous traffic mix including slow-moving farm vehicles and heavy industrial trucks. With the rapid
growth of traffic in recent years, the existing Class II road is expected to be congested by 2006, and so the
doing nothing option was rejected. Upgrading NRI 10 to a Class I four-lane was one alternative considered.
This altemative offered the lowest cost, but could not meet transportation capacity needs, would have
required more resettlement, and would have caused more environmental impacts on residential areas than
the expressway alignment. Furthermore, because both sections adjacent to the project expressway section
are planned as four-lane expressways, and the proposed section is part of the NTHS, maintaining
continuity was considered important from a technical viewpoint. For these reasons, the expressway
standard was considered more appropriate. Building the expressway in one or two stages offered no
distinct difference in terms of environmental impact, but because the total cost of two-stage construction
would be higher, one-stage expressway construction was the alternative selected.
The proposed expressway alignment was chosen primarily on the basis of topographical and geological
conditions after the review of five alternatives. An intemational expert was hired to review the technical
justifications for the selected alignment and found them satisfactory.
HNIP component. IMCD proposed 41 road sections totaling about 2,300 km as candidates for Bank
financing under the HNIP component. After the 41 road sections were screened through these criteria: (i)
linkage to poverty areas; (ii) engineering classification; (iii) traffic volume; (iv) economic rate of retum;
and (v) special circumstances such as a high accident rate (see Annex 2 for details), about 15 percent of
them were accepted as top-priority candidates to be financed under the project.
IST component. The Contract for Rehabilitation and Maintenance Approach (CREMA) was considered
the most suitable model for the maintenance-by-contract pilot after other models were reviewed during
project preparation and specific IMCD conditions were taken into account.
The training program and its objectives and focus are based on IMCD's analysis of its weaknesses and
takes into account the training program under the ongoing Tri-provincial Highway project as well as the
need to prepare IMCD personnel for the organizational reform currently envisaged. Priority training topics
include transport planning and budgeting, project management, construction quality, maintenance
management, environmental protection, and highway safety.
-10-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings      l
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
1. Remove highway capacity      Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway       S             S
bottleneck                       (ongoing) 1-3, 5
2. Institutional strengthening &  Second Shaanxi Provincial      S            S
training                         Highway (ongoing) 14, 6
3. Rural road and poverty alleviation  Second Henan Provincial   S            S
Highway (ongoing) 1-6
4. Highway Safety                Second Xinjiang Highway         S            S
(ongoing)1-5
5. Operation and maintenance of  Second Nat'l                    S            S
high-grade highways              Hwy:Guangdong/Hunan
(ongoing)l, 2,4-6
6. Cost recovery                 Fujian Provincial Highway       S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Third Nat'l Hwy: Hubei          S            S
(ongoing)l, 2, 4-6
Tri-Provincial Highway          S            S
(ongoing)1-6
Anhui Provincial Highway:       S            S
(ongoing)1, 2,4-6
Forth National Highway:         S            S
HubeilHunan (ongoing) 1, 2,
4-6
Second Fujian Highway           S            S
(ongoing)1, 2,4-6
Third Henan Provincial          S            S
Highway (ongoing)1-6
Guangxi Provincial Highway      S            S
(ongoing)1-6
Second Jiangxi Highway          S            S
(ongoing)1-6
Xinjiang mU Highway
(planned)1-6
Hubei Highway Project
(planned) 1-6                         .
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank           ONGOING PROJECTS
Hebei and Liaoning
Expressways
Liaoning and Jilin Expressways
- 11 -



Hebei Roads Development
Chengdu-Nanchang
Expressway
Chanchun-Harbin Expressway
Shanxi Roads Development
Southem Yunnan Road
Development
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads
Development
PLANNED PROJECTS
Shanxi Expressway
Chongqing-Guizhou
Expressway
Guangxi Highway Development
Shanxi and Shaanxi Roads
Westem Yunnan Road
Development
Southem Sichuan Roads
Development
Japan Bank for International      ONGOING PROJECTS
Cooperation (formally Overseas    Hainan Development
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan  Qingdao Development
Guiyang Xinzhia Highway
Hangzhou-Quzhou Expressway
Wanxian-Liangping Highway
Liangping-Changshou Highway
Hainan East Expressway
Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Highway
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Although the overall performance of the Bank highway portfolio in China has been satisfactory, a number
of issues that have arisen during the implementation of earlier projects have been taken into account in the
design of the proposed project. These issues include rushing to bid with preliminary engineering designs,
resulting in sizable variations during project implementation; lack of quality control of construction; and
starting the construction of electrical and mechanical facilities late. The project design also attempts to
ensure that the highway network is balanced between high-growth areas and high-poverty areas by
apportioning a substantial share of investment to lower classes of roads. The project design also attempts
to spur policy and institutional reforms of road maintenance in line with a 1999 OED assessment of the
China portfolio, and the recommendations of the recent Highway Sector Strategy Review. It includes a
pilot maintenance-by-contract program, financed under the TCC4 funding arrangement.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Discussions between the Bank and the Borrower indicate that national, provincial, and local governments
support the proposed highway because it is the main artery linking Beijing and China's northwestern region
and is also the most important east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia The government of Inner Mongolia
has shown an especially strong commitment to this project. The project is an integral and key component
of the master plan that calls for connecting Hohhot and Inner Mongolia's secondary cities. For their part,
MOC and the government of Inner Mongolia have already approved RMB 728 million (US$88 million) and
RMB 672 million (US$81 million), respectively, as the state and provincial contributions to the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through our continued involvement in project investment, the Bank can maintain and elevate policy
dialogue and accelerate the pace of policy reform for the highway sector. It can build up-front client
ownership, develop human resources, demonstrate quick but risk-free results through pilots, and improve
dialogue by bringing consistency between national and provincial policies.
Under the proposed project in particular, the added value of Bank support to Inner Mongolia includes,
besides the physical investment, its experience with highway reform elsewhere and the know-how the Bank
has gained in over 15 years of working on other relevant projects in China. Some of these projects have
been in areas that were in the same stage of development that Inner Mongolia is in now, which means that
the Bank can give due consideration to Inner Mongolia's stage of development and the level of
sophistication and appropriate know-how the project should transfer to strengthen the management of
IMCD. Bank experience with outsourcing highway maintenance will be valuable in this project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$118 million; ERR = 17.9 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
This economic evaluation covers the two project components that account for 95 percent of project costs:
(a) construction and upgrading of the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway, totaling 91.3 km and (b) upgrading of
five rural roads under the HNIP, totaling 343.0 km. The principal measured benefits of the project are
savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC), time savings to vehicle occupants, and enhanced road safety.
Motorized traffic in the proposed LJH corridor increased rapidly, at an average of 15.8 percent per year
between 1990 and 2000. By 2000 it had reached 6,000 AADT, while nonmotorized and other traffic added
another 800 AADT equivalent. With a projected 8 percent annual growth, motorized traffic alone will
reach about 10,000 AADT by 2006, the proposed opening year of the project. This would exceed the
capacity of the existing Class II road. On the basis of this traffic growth estimate, the estimated overall
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project is about 18 percent--15 percent for LJH and 28
percent for HNIP. The overall economic net present value (NPV), based on a 12 percent discount rate, is
estimated at RMB 979.7 million, RMB 429.6 million of which comes from LJH, and RMB 550.1 million
from HNIP. An analysis of the evaluation results and a description of the method used to derive them are
provided in Annex 4 and the results are summarized as follows:
- 13 -



Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIBR (in%)  NPV (12%, million RMB)
LaoYemiao- Jining Highway (LJHI:
Jining - Xinghe                         14.1           220.9
Xinghe - Laoyemiao                      17.6           194.7
Subtotal                  15.1            429.6
Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP)  30.2         550.1
Total                    17.9            979.7
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 16.5 million; FRR = 5.8 % (see Annex 4)
The construction of LJH is the main component of the project, and only LJH will generate revenue. All
five rural roads to be upgraded under the HNIP are toll free. IMCD plans to use the toll revenue from LJH
to cover the loan amortization charges. The highway will generate enough total revenue over the loan
period with a standard amortization schedule. With the toll at the proposed level, LJH may not need any
external cash injection. The FIRR for LJH is expected to be 5.8 percent, with an NPV (at 5.0 percent) of
RMB 135.1 million. For non-revenue-earning entities (the five toll-free roads under HNIP), the financial
evaluation focused on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds and operating expenses, including the
financial risks for the project roads. All the indicators show that the financial risks for these toll-free roads
are modest. A detailed assessment is provided in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
The project may significantly affect Inner Mongolia's budgets and capital investment programs during its
implementation years. The counterpart fund issue has been discussed fully with the Inner Mongolia
government to ensure that maintenance funds will not be sacrificed for capital construction.
Tolls for different types of vehicles using the proposed LJH will be carefully detenrnined. However, for the
purpose of evaluation, assumptions were conservatively set on a relatively low level of toll rates and a slow
adjustment of the rates. Although the highway will generate enough revenue over the loan period, the low
toll charges and the low toll growth assumption will lead to some impact on the FIRR.
3. Technical:
The issues that need special attention from a technical point of view are:
*   The need for a proper review of selected design standards especially to take into consideration
traffic safety on high speed road.
*   The need for adequate geological investigations at the design stage to minimize the risk of
encountering major problems at the construction stage, as has occurred in other highway projects
in China
*   An appropriate level of electrical and mechanical works at the opening of the highway to traffic
4. Institutional:
All institutional issues related to capacity building will require special attention, in particular the
strengthening of maintenance management systems and associated organizational arrangements. The
successful implementation of the institutional components will require a continuing strong commitment
from IMCD and its associated road sector agencies.
- 14 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
IMCD has been an executing agency for the Inner Mongolia component of the Tri-provincial Highway
project for three years. It is familiar with Bank requirements and thus will not have problems executing the
proposed project.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project management will be handled by IMCD. IMCD also will be pimanrily responsible for the
institutional and policy components as well as for the traffic safety components. PMO will be responsible
for the construction management of both the LJH and HNIP components, including construction,
supervision and quality control. PMO also will undertake environmental and resettlement aspects of the
project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A project procurement capacity assessment was conducted during project preappraisal. The procurement
capacity assessment report is available in the project files (see Annex 6 for a summary). The assessment
confirmed that the provincial agencies are generally capable of managing highway projects. Although some
shortcomings were identified, an action plan to overcome them has been drawn up.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was conducted during project preappraisal. The Financial
Management Assessment Report is available in the project files (see Annex 11 for a summary). The
assessment followed guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, and
concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements as stipulated in BP/OP
10.02. In the team's opinion, the project will have in place an adequate project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on project status in the
reporting format agreed with the project and as required by the Bank.
4.4.1. Funding for the project comes from the Bank loan and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be
signed between the Bank and the PRC through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), and on-lending
arrangements for the Bank loan will be signed between the PRC through its MOF and the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region through its Finance Bureau of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (FBIMAR), and
between FBIMAR and IMCD. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank into the special account
maintained by FBIMAR for the project in respect of reimbursable expenditures incurred, or to contractors
or suppliers through bank accounts with major commercial banks acceptable to the Bank. The project will
disburse using traditional disbursement techniques and will not use PMR-based disbursements, in
accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds will come from two
sources: appropriations by the Ministry of Communication (MOC) and capital and domestic loan proceeds
from IMCD, and will be contributed by MOC and IMCD directly to the project.
4.4.2. No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with the implementing agency. The task team, however,
will continue to be attentive to financial management matters and audit covenants during project
implementation.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 15 -



Preparation of EIA and EAP.
After the feasibility study report was completed by Inner Mongolia Transport & Traffic Design Institute,
environmental assessment works started in January 1999 with the appointment of Chang'an University as
Environmental Assessment (EA) consultant. For the HNIP component, a sector environmental assessment
approach was implemented. Inner Mongolia Environmental Science Institute was entrusted with the task of
conducting the EA according to Chinese national procedures and the World Bank's OP 4.01.
The Bank reviewed the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and
EA Summary reports for the main highway component and the Initial Environmental Examination and
Environmental Action Plan (IEE & EAP) for the HNIP and discussed them with IMCD, Chang'an
University, and Inner Mongolia Environmental Science Institute during the preappraisal mission in
September 2001. The second draft EIA, EAP, EA Summary, and IEE & EAP were submitted to the Bank
in November 2001. Further comments from the Bank were provided and the final draft report was
submitted to the Bank in January 2002.
During the EA, local people in the project area received information and documents about the project and
were intensively consulted. Their opinions are reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation
measures, in particular the number of underpasses were increased. The draft EA reports were disclosed
locally in January 2002 with an advertisement in the local newspaper and was sent to the World Bank's
InfoShop for disclosure on January 28, 2002. The major findings on the two components are summarized
below. More detailed information is given in Annex 12.
a.     Main Highway Component
Potential Impacts. Major potential impacts during the construction phase include noise, dust, and soil
erosion. The major potential impact during the operation phase will be noise. The alignment of the
proposed highway is parallel to an existing Class II highway, an area that has been exposed to human
activity for many decades. Agricultural land use prevails. There appear to be no environmentally protected
areas, cultural relics, or critical natural habitats for precious fauna or flora found along the alignment.
Mitigation Measures. The EIA recommended several mitigation measures, including resettlement,
construction of green belts, barriers for noise mitigation, water-spraying and material covers for dust
control, and appropriate allocation and rehabilitation of borrow pits for preventing land erosion.
b.     HNIP
The HNIP includes no new construction or land acquisition. There appears to be no ecologically protected
area in the program areas. The ecological and cultural environments were surveyed, and no important
natural habitat or cultural property was found. The air and acoustic environments were monitored, and
potential impacts were projected. Because construction works are made up of a limited scope of
rehabilitating existing roads, no significant impacts are envisaged. To minimize the environmental impacts
of the project, a variety of mitigation measures have been integrated into the EAP, including soil and
vegetation protection; noise, air, and water pollution protection; and mitigation measures for borrow pits
and construction camps.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EAP comprises an environmental protection plan and an environmental monitoring plan. Both plans
specify responsible parties and supervising parties for their implementation at the design stage, construction
stage, and operation stage. The protection plan involves practical and cost-effective measures necessary to
mitigate project-related impacts, such as the construction of green belts totaling an area of 5,000 m'. The
- 16 -



EAP, to ensure its implementation, includes training, institutional arrangements, an implementation
schedule, and a budget.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 2002
The terms of reference (TOR) of the EIA, EIA report, and EAP were submitted to the Bank and were
reviewed during the preappraisal mission in September 2001. The Bank reviewed the second draft of the
EA reports in November 2001. The Bank received the third and final draft of the EIA, EAP, and EA
Summary in January 2002. They were sent to the Bank's InfoShop for disclosure at the same time.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to World Bank guidelines: (a) shortly after
environmental screening and before the terns of reference for the EA were finalized (March and July 1999
respectively); and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared (August 2001 and February 2002
respectively). Meetings were held with local people at project-affected towns and surveys were conducted
through questionnaires. Project-affected individuals, organizations of concemed villagers, and village
committees were intensively consulted. Local government officers and other institutions such as NGOs
also were consulted.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the
project's actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. Environmental monitoring will be conducted by
Envirommental Protection Office of IMCD at the construction stage. At the operational stage,
environmental monitoring will be entrusted to local environmental monitoring centers. The results of the
monitoring will be reported to the Bank and local environmental authorities. The environmental monitoring
plans are provided in Annex 12, Table 2.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project targets one of the poorest areas of hner Mongolia. The project will complement the
government's ongoing poverty alleviation efforts, particularly in agricultural development and rural roads,
by providing easier, more efficient and less costly means of transportation. The HNIP component is
designed as a poverty-reduction intervention to benefit the rural areas of the region.
The major social issues of the project relate to land acquisition and resettlement. The project management
office (PMO) carried out a census of the affected people, an inventory of affected assets, a socioeconomic
survey and a social assessment within an extended corridor of about 10 km along the proposed LJH
alignment to assess the general social and economic impacts of the project. The project will acquire 7,866
mu of land for the LJH component, including 3,871 mu of cultivated land. This will affect 12,693 people
in 3,568 households. The project will need to relocate 37 people in 12 households. The HNIP will be
implemented within existing road bases and will not require any land acquisition or house demolition. The
PMO has developed a RAP, which details the census, inventory, project resettlement policy, compensation
- 17 -



rates and budget, compensation and rehabilitation programs, and institutional and monitoring
arrangements. The RAP is available in the project file and will be deposited in the Bank's Public
Infonnation Center (Its summary is in Annex 13).
One objective of the social assessment was to identify any ethnic minority population, develop an
understanding of their socioeconomic situation, assess the impact of the project on them, and integrate their
concems and suggestions into the project design. The social assessment found that there is a small
Mongolian population in the project areas that makes up less than 4 percent of the local population. Unlike
the Mongolian population in grassland areas in Inner Mongolia, they are scattered among the Han
population and are well integrated into the Han culture. There is no distinctive difference between them
and their Han neighbors in their social and economic activities. The project will affect 123 Mongolian
farmers in 29 households. Based on the findings of the social assessment, it was concluded that the
Mongolian households in the project area do not meet Bank criteria on indigenous people and therefore OD
4.20 does not apply.
The alignment of the LJH runs along an existing highway, actually using parts of the existing highway.
During the field surveys for the feasibility study and preliminary technical designs, the entire alignment was
screened for cultural properties and relics. No above-ground cultural relics were identified as affected by
the project. Consultations with cultural relics department and local govemments revealed no historical
underground sites along the project aligrnent. The Chinese Cultural Relics Protection Law will be
followed if underground historical relics are found during project construction.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All affected households and villages were identified through the census and social assessment. Project
information was provided to the affected villages and local governments through newspaper
announcements, posters, and public meetings. The consultation strategy used focus-group discussions and
key informant interviews to disseminate project information, consult affected people about the resettlement
and rehabilitation strategy, and note people's concerns and needs so that they could be incorporated into the
project design. Information dissemination and consultations will continue during project implementation.
A resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements for each household, compensation and
entitlement policies, and grievance procedures will be distributed to affected people before resettlement
implementation. The affected communities will play a key role in finalizing and implementing
livelihood-restoration programs. Both intemal monitoring and independent monitoring of the resettlement
program will be conducted regularly during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
China Resettlement Research Centre was contracted to head the social assessment exercise. Village
commlittees and farmer groups have also been consulted and have participated in the resettlement planning
process and the preparation of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements for resettlement implementation are detailed in the RAP. East China
Science and Engineering University, which is independent of the Inner Mongolia government and the
project office, will serve as the independent monitoring agency for the resettlement program. The project
will be monitored and the living standards of project-affected people will be evaluated throughout project
implementation. The monitoring results will be reported regularly and, if and when needed, remedial actions
will be designed.
- 18 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The borrower, the Bank, and the external monitoring institutions will supervise and monitor project
implementation and the realization of the stated objectives.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, see Section E.5.
For OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, see Section E.6.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Experience with completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects indicates a strong cormnitment
among Chinese officials to implement the physical components of the project. Generally, counterpart funds
are mnade available on time. However, the policy of speeding up investment in the sector tends to cause
funds to be diverted from maintenance to construction. To ameliorate this situation, about 20 percent of
project funds are allocated to improving and maintaining existing roads, especially those in poorer areas.
The level of tolls must be reviewed periodically so that the project proves to be financially and
economically viable and the province can repay the Bank loan and carry out maintenance when required.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The government lacks the commitment to     M        Maintain an effective dialogue with the central
implement the final recommendations                 and Inner Mongolia governments
from technical assistance.
Trained staff lack the opportunity to apply  M      Continue dialogue with IMCD and coordinate
acquired skills in the workplace.                   the work among the agencies
There is insufficient accountability for the  M     Monitor resource utilization practices
use of internal and external resources.             frequently through regular supervision audits
-19 -



From Components to Outputs
Counterpart resources are not available in  N        Follow up regularly on all required budgets,
a timely manner.                                    which are already identified and committed
Political pressures interfere with         M         Prequalify contracts properly to ensure that the
implementation and adversely affect the              best contractors are selected, ensure the proper
quality of construction.                             external supervision of construction, and
provide frequent Bank supervision
Land acquisition and resettlement suffer   M         Provide frequent supervision, with a particular
delays.                                             focus on resettlement during the first year of
implementation
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1 Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are on-lent to the beneficiary, Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the beneficiary bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
2.2 Agreement Reached with the Beneficiary:
(a) Laoyemiao-Jining Highway. IMCD shall undertake, complete and furnish to the Bank an analysis and
recommendation for toll rates on LJH by June 30, 2005, taking into account the findings of studies about
this issue under other Bank-financed highway projects in China, and the experience with toll rates on major
roads.
(b) Highway NetworkImprovementProgram. IMCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual
monitoring report by May 15 of each year starting 2003, until two years after the program is completed.
(c) Highway Safety. IMCD shall complete the black-spot improvements works by December 31, 2005.
(d) Institutional strengthening and training. By November 15 of each year, beginning in 2002, IMCD will
furnish to the Bank an annual IST report covering progress in implementing the IMCD maintenance reform
program and training, including a training schedule for the future year and a description of the training
carried out during the year of the report.
- 20 -



IMCD will carry out the studies and maintenance-by-contract pilot financed under TCC-4 in the manner
specified in the TCC-4 document, and will discuss with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of
the studies and report to the Bank on the implementation of the pilot and share the lessons learned from it.
(e) Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement. IMCD shall carry out the EAP and RAP, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its prior
approval. IMCD also shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of EAP and
RAP.
Under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, IMCD will prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) a
quarterly report and an annual environmental monitoring report through the period of implementation, with
the first report submitted by February 15, 2004; (ii) by May 15 and November 15 of each year, starting
May 15, 2003 until two years after completion of the project, an internal resettlement report prepared by
agencies of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region responsible for resettlement activities on the
implementation and results of such activities during the preceding six-month period; and (iii) by February
15 and August 15 of each year, starting February 15, 2003 until two years after completion of the project,
an external resettlement report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the
implementation and results of the resettlement activities during the same six-month period referred to in
clause (ii) above.
(f) Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing
Using guidelines acceptable to the Bank, IMCD shall prepare and submit to the Bank:
*   A monthly progress report on the civil works of LJH
*   A quarterly progress report on implementation of all project components
*   An annual monitoring report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, that assesses the degree to which
implementation and development goals were achieved for all components, by February 15, of each
year, beginning in 2004, through 2007
*   An implementation completion report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the
closing date of the Bank loan
*   Audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures and special accounts prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
*   Unaudited project financial statements on a semi-annual basis within 45 days of the close of each
reporting period (i.e. prior to August 15 and February 15 of the following year based on a calendar
year)
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 21 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
upee Teravthom                    Jitendra N. Bajpai                 ukon Huang
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director           Country Director
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support social and economic  Increase in Gross Output  Annual economic reports and Increased economic activity
development in Inner      Value of Agriculture and  statistics on Inner Mongolia  and accessibility to all areas
Mongolia Autonomous       Industry (GOVAI) in affected                       in
Region through effective  counties and in a few control Country economic reports  the region enhance
infrastructure investment  counties along the project                        opportunities in all sectors
corridors                                          and contribute to sustainable
and equitable development.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact         ProJect reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The project aims to improve  Reduced time spent on  Travel speed and average  Economic conditions in the
the efficiency, safety, and  interprovincial trips through a daily traffic (ADT) on  country and provinces remain
cost-effectiveness of the  more efficient highway system existing highway    robust.
transport infrastructure to  involving lower costs and
support the social and    shorter distances        Progress on network       Counterpart funds are not
economic development of the                        rehabilitation and        over-stretched and
Inner Mongolia Autonomous  Reduction in number of days  maintenance          maintenance is sustained.
Region, a poor, land-locked  road network is closed to
region in northwestern China, traffic               Progress on traffic safety  Results of the highway safety
thus reducing social and                                                     TA are fully applied.
economic disparity within the Lower traffic accident fatality
region.                   rate, especially on the heavily
traveled corridor
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Approximately 90 km of  - ADT on new expressway  Project performance      Sector organization,
the Laoyemiao-Jining      and existing road.        monitoring reports       operation, and management
highway (LJH) constructed  - Average vehicle speed on                        improve.
the new expressway and
existing road.
2. Existing road network,  - ADT on local roads in  Project performance       Commitment to implement
especially in relatively poor  affected areas.      monitoring reports       TA's final recommendations
areas, properly maintained  - Number of days local                           on highway maintenance
and improved             roads are closed to traffic.                        management is sustained.
3. Traffic safety on existing  - Number of traffic accident  Report of traffic safety  Commitment to implement
network improved          fatalities and their severity  analysis             TA's final recommendations
on the traffic safety audit is
sustained.
-23 -



4. Technical and management - Qualitative evaluation  Reports on implementation of Training programs prove
capacity of IMCD and its  reflecting sharing of new  study recommendations, and  relevant and managers willing
related departments       knowledge and exercising  trainees' report         to give opportunities to
strengthened              new skills by staff trained                        trainees to apply new skills.
under the project, as well as  Progress reports on social and
improvement of performance  environmental monitoring
in specific functions and  activities
activities
- Quality of project
management of social and
environmental aspects
Project Components        Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Construction of LJH       US$ 179.4 million         Monthly reports for civil  Political pressures do not
works                     interfere with implementation
and adversely affect the
quality of construction.
Highway Network           US$ 61.1 million          Quarterly progress report for  Counterpart resources are
Improvement Program                                the entire project         made available in a timely
manner.
Highway safety component  US$ 2.1 million           Annual reports of traffic  Traffic safety audit is
safety analysis           implemented.
Strengthening of highway  US$ 0.8 million           Report on implementation of  Opportunities are opened to
management capacity through                         study recommendations    trainees to apply new skills in
training                                                                      workplace.
Provision of road maintenance US$ 6.4 million       Disbursement progress report
equipment
Total Project Cost    US$ 249.8 million
Interest during construction  US$ 17.9 million
Front-end fee             US$   1.0 million
Total Financing Required  US$ 268.7 million
-24 -



Annex 1-1
Ke Performance Indicators & Development Indicators
Attainment of Project          Monitoring Indictors           2001      2004      2006      2008
objectives
Provide a more efficient,      ADT on LJH(veh./day)
safe and cost effective        Laoyemiao-Xinghe                                  5,700    6,200
transport infrastructure          Xinghe-Jining                                   5,500    5,900
NHI I0 ADT on existing class II Road
Laoyemiao-Xinghe              6,600     8,300   4,000     4,200
Xinghe-Jining               6,500     8,200   3,900      4,100
NHI 10 accident rates on existing road
(times/km)
Laoyemiao-Xinghe              0.027     0.035   0.047     0.059
Xinghe-Jining               0.019     0.027   0.056      0.069
routine maintenance expenditure (million
yuan/km)                  6,000     8,000   12,000    20,000
Periodic maintenance (million yuan/lkn)  330,000  360,000 400,00  600,000
0
ADT on road under HNIP (AADT)
(1) Huade-Anye                           1,000     1,100   1,200      1,300
(2) Zuozishan-Liangcheng                  900      1,000   1,100      1,200
(3) Kebuer-Baiyinchagan                   900       980    1,030      1,070
(4) Bailinmiao-Xilamuren                 2,070     2,390   2,600      2,830
(5) Tumuertai-Shangdu                     860      1,000   1,090      1,180
Number of days road closed to traffic
(1) Huade-Anye                             10        3
(2) Zuozishan-Liangcheng                   12        3
(3) Kebuer-Baiyinchagan                    8         4
(4) Bailinmiao-Xilamuren                   9         3
(5) Tumuertai-Shangdu                      12        5
Tonnage of goods transported to coastal  2,350  3,608     4,655    7,227
provinces (100 t/yr)
Average GDP in the project affected areas  9,100  10,290   14,410   16,280
(million yuan)
Implementation Indicators
2003     2004     2005     2006    2007    2008     Total
% of civil works completed on LJH   20       30       30        10      10              100
% of highways improve/rehabilitated
under HNIP                 30       40       20       10                      100
Highway safety:% of improved blackspots  25     25       30       20                       100
Number of person-month of completed
training (%)               20       23       22       18      17               100
% of road under maintenance by contract
(TCC-4)                  60        80      100      100                       100
- 25 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$185.80 million
Highway Capacity Expansion
ConstructionoftheLaoyemiao-JiningHighway: USS174.6million
Construction of the approximately 90-krn Laoyemiao-to-Jining Highway (LJH) is the project's main
component. The LJH is a divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway. The proposed LJH is
a critical part of the national trunk highway system (NTHS) and of the east-west corridor of Inner
Mongolia connecting its key industrial, administrative, and hub cities of Baotou, Hohhot, and
Jining.
The LJH will operate as a closed toll highway. It will include two interchanges, three toll stations,
two service areas, and a facility for highway administration and maintenance. The component will
also supply and install electrical and mechanical facilities (tolling, monitoring, telecommunications,
and lighting systems).
Equipment: US$6.4 million
Equipment will be used to maintain national and provincial highways (including expressways) and
other lower-class roads. Equipment needed for control of construction quality and environmental
monitoring will be procured or supplied before commencement of civil works and will be locally
financed. The equipment list, which includes cost estimates, is available in the project file.
Supervision of construction: US$4.8 million
Based on the experience gained from ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China, a combined
team of local engineers, technicians, and other personnel and international consultants will be
created to supervise the construction of the LJH. The foreign engineers will be integrated with the
supervisory organization and will help establish procedures at all levels, including on-site
inspections and laboratory testing. They also will train local staff through formal sessions and
on-the-job training. Three intemational experts for a total of about 72 person-months are envisaged
to supervise construction, of which four person-months will be for training and five for
contingencies. To supervise six ICB civil works contracts, one ICB contract for electrical and
mechanical facilities, and three NCB contracts for buildings, two resident engineers offices will be
created with 100 staff including site engineers. The estimated domestic supervision input will come
to about 2,800 person-months.
Project Component 2 - US$61.10 million
Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP) for Poverty Areas
Inner Mongolia is one of the poorest regions in China by every standard of measurement. Inner
Mongolia has 101 banners and counties, half of which are classified as poor (31 counties and
banners are classified as national-level poverty and 19 as provincial-level poverty), and only 25
percent of total roads are all-weather roads. The need to increase investment in lower-class,
all-weather roads in Inner Mongolia was therefore considered indisputable.
- 26 -



IMCD proposed 41 road sections totaling about 2,300 km as possible candidates for the HNIP
component. Five road sections were selected on the basis of the following criteria established by the
Bank and IMCD:
*   The sections should link the poor to the developed areas of the province.
*   The engineering classification of these roads should be between Classes IV and II.
*   The sections must carry no fewer than 200-500 vehicles a day, depending on the proposed class of
upgrade.
*   The economic rate of return on investment should be no less than 12 percent.
*   Special circumstances, such as a high accident rate also should justify consideration.
The program includes roads totaling about 343 km, of which 85 km will be Class II highways and 258 km
will be Class III. The EIRR ranges from between 18.1 percent and 40.6 percent. Feasibility reports on the
five road sections as well as their EA reports are available in the project file.
Implementation. Road sections will be packaged into 16 contracts with an average length of about
16 km and a total cost of about US$61.1 million, of which the Bank loan will finance 39 percent.
All contracts will use the NCB procurement method. A group will be established in the PMO to
supervise implementation. The sections will be improved from 2002 through 2005. The details are
shown in Table A.
Monitoring and performance indicators. Monitoring values will be estimated. The Bank and
IMCD will review the implementation of the program during the yearly supervision missions, and
results will be compared with those agreed the previous year. The monitoring indicators include the
following:
*   Average daily traffic in MTE
*   Number of days the road is closed and not available for use
*   Increase or decrease in the county per capita GOVAI.
Table A: Summary of Hlghway Network mprovement Program (HNIP)
No.      Location      Highway     Class of Highway  Construction  Total Cost   Contract
Class 2  Class 3    period     (million yuan)  package
Total                 85      258                       429          16
1     Huade County   Huade-Anye    85              2003-2005        160          5
2    Zuozi/Liangcheng  Zuozishan-          48      2003-2004         54          2
County       Liangcheng
3     Chayouzhong     Kebuer-              70      2002-2004         75          3
Banner      Baiyinchagan
Chayouhou Banner
4     Damao Banner   Bailinmiao-            86     2002-2004         86          4
Xilamuren
5    Shangdu County  Tumuetail-            54      2002-2003         54           2
_  Shangdu
Project Component 3 - USS 2.10 million
Highway Safety Component (Black-Spot Improvements)
1MCD has undertaken a highway safety component under the ongoing Tri-provincial Highway
project. The implementation of the ongoing highway safety component was reviewed and the review
found that the current diffusion of responsibilities in different areas makes it difficult to address the
problem in a comprehensive manner. Both MOC and the PCDs need to continue working on the
- 27 -



engineering aspects of highway safety, which are within their area of responsibility. It was agreed
that the proposed highway safety component would expand the black-spot improvement work under
the ongoing project.
Selection of black spots. The proposed black-spot improvement program will include 15 locations
and be caried out within the existing right-of-way. The locations were selected on the basis of the
following criteria:
* Accidents are frequent and serious.
* Local authorities had not planned improvements for the next few years.
*   Before and after analyses could be easily conducted.
*   Traffic volume is high (more than 2,000 veh/day).
Implementation. Engineering solutions for the black-spot improvement works are estimated at
RMB 15 million. Detailed designs of the first batch of civil works, including installing traffic
safety facilities, will be completed by December 2002, and the entire program will be implemented
from 2003 to 2006. Work on the 15 locations will be grouped into about seven contract packages
and procured through NCB.
Project Component 4 - US$0.80 million
Institutional Strengthening and Training
The IST component of the proposed project was designed to help IMCD strengthen its management
of the road system, especially of maintenance activities. Although the major part of the IST
component will be financed in parallel by the Technical Cooperation Credit 4 (TCC-4) and local
counterpart funds, it was designed to complement the staff training financed by IBRD loan under
the project. The IST component in a broader sense, therefore, includes the following:
A. Training (financed by IBRD loan under the project )
B. Technical Assistance (T/A) Program financed in parallel under the TCC-4 financial arrangement
a. Projectpreparation-feasibility study reports, Environmental Impact Assessment,
Resettlement Action Plan, etc.
b. Maintenance Strengthening Program
*   Software and hardware support for the Maintenance Management System (MMS)
*   Road expenditure allocation study
*   Pilot maintenance-by-contract program
c. Research and engineering study
*   Design and construction of road under severe winter conditions to reduce parallel
reflecting crack
The total cost of the IST program including the T/A activities is US$4.6 million, of which US$1.5
million will be covered by TCC-4, US$ 0.5 million by IBRD loan under the project and the
remaining US$2.6 million equivalent from counterpart funds. Details of the IST component are
discussed in Annex 14.
- 28 -



Table B: Overall Implementation Schedule
2001             2002             2003             2004             2005             2006             2007
GENERAL
PROCUREMENT NOTICE
(1013112001)
Works
1. Laoyemiao-Jining
lghway                     .
- Civil Works
- Buildings
- Supply and                                      7-I-_-_-_-_- _-_-r
Installation
(E & M)
2. Highway Network
Improvement
(HNIP)
- First Package                      _
- Second
Package
3. Black Spot
Improvements
- First Package                                           _ I
Supervision of
Construction
- Laoyemiao-i
Jining Highway
Procurement of
qulpment
- Maintenance                                                       _
for National
and Provincia
Hlghways
i    ~      Pregualification/DreDaration of biddinq documents/rOR           _        Construction/suDervision/deliverv/execubon of studies
Bidding Drocesslcomoetition amona consultants                            Defects liabilitv oaerod
29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Local          Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                        US $million     US $million     US $million
A. Works:
1) Civil works for LJH                                            78.89           53.70          132.59
2) Building for LJH                                                2.34            1.00            3.34
3) Electrical and mechanical facilities                            1.49            3.49            4.98
4) HNIP                                                           33.64           18.12           51.76
5) Black-spot improvement                                          1.24            0.54            1.78
6) Environmental Protection                                        0.47                            0.47
Subtotal                                    118.07            76.85          194.9
B. Construction supervision:
1) LJH                                                             3.12             1.44            4.56
2) HNIP                                                             0.73                            0.73
3) Environmental Protection                                         0.09                            0.09
Subtotal                                                3.94             1.4            5.38
C. Equipment                                                           0.00            6.00             6.00
D. IST /1                                                              0.24             0.49            0.73
Total Baseline Cost                                  122.25            84.78          207.03
Physical Contingencies                                               11.76              7.7           19.46
Price Contingencies                                                   9.97            6.52            16.49
Subtotal                                          21.73            14.22           35.95
Land Acquisition                                                     6.81                             6.81
Total Project Costs'                 150.79            99.00          249.79
Interest during construcion     17.94                           17.94
Front-end fee                          1.00            1.00
Total Financing Required                   168.73          100.00          268.73
Local          Foreign           Total
Project Cost By Category                       US Smillion     US $million     US $million
Goods                                                                     0.00             6.42            6.42
Works                                                                   139.48            90.52           230.00
Services                                                                  4.25             1.54             5.79
Training                                                                  0.25             0.52            0.77
Resettlement                                                              6.81             0.00            6.81
Total Project Costs      150.79             99.00          249.79
Interest during construcdion   17.94             0.00           17.94
Front-end fee        0.00             1.00            1.00
Total Financing Required      168.73           100.00          268.73
1.      This does not includes T/A totaling 51.5 million being arranged from TCC-4 to finance project preparation, technical assistance for
Maintenance Management System and pilot program for maintenance by contract.
- 30 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
Analysis             _                Taxes          Subsidles
Beneflts:                  15,256.8          10,317.9           2,784.0
RMB million
Costs:                      2,495.7           2,526.8
RMB million                                                       .
Net Benefits:              12,761.1           7,791.1           2,784.0
RMB million
IRR:                           17.9               5.8
In %__________________                                   ________
1 The value of financial benefits is lower than that of econornic benefits because of controls on the toll charges for the expressway and the
non-revenue-eaming roads under the HNIP.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The overall EIRR of the project (including LJH and BNIP) is estimated to be 17.9 percent and the NPV (at
12 percent) is estimated to be RMB 979.7 million. The result is summarized as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in%)  NPV (12%, mnillion RMs)
Laoyemiao- Jining Highway (LJH:
Jining-Xinghe                             14.1            220.9
Xinghe - Laoyemiao                        17.6            194.7
Subtotal                   lai              4296
Highway Network Improvement Program (BNIP)  30.2            550.1
Total                      17.9            979.7
Main Assumptions:
1.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two project components:
a. Construction of the 91.3-km Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (LJH)
b. Upgrading and improvement of five rural roads (345 kIn) in the poor areas of Inner Mongolia
under the Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP) component
2.      The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted operating data on traffic, vehicle operating cost
(VOC) savings, project economic cost and transport user benefits. The main inputs and assumptions for
the evaluation are:
a. Capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect February 2002 prices
- 31 -



b. The benefit stream, also reflected in February 2002 prices, comprises savings in VOC, travel
time savings through reduced congestion on the existing route, and reduction in accident costs
c. An assumed project life of 20 years, a capital investment period of 2002-2007, depending on
the road being evaluated
d. Full benefits starting to accrue for LJH in 2007 and for the five rural roads from 2002 to 2005
(depending on the road).
3.     This annex comprises three parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of L1H; Part H is the
economic evaluation of the five rural roads under the HNIP component; and Part III is the overall
economic evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis.
PART I: LAOYEMIAO - JINIG HIGHWAY (LJH)
4.     For purposes of evaluation, LJH has been divided into two sections:
Length of the  Length of the new
eistIng road (km)  expressway (Ian)
Section 1: Jiing - Xinghe       69.29          70.00
Section 2: Xinghe - Laoyeniiao  21.27          21.27
Total                 90.56           91.27
Highway Expansion Plan-Justification for Investment
5.     Overview. Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) has a vast land area (1.18 million kmn).
The IMAR is an inland transport hub in the north of China serving the east-west transportation needs and
linking China's western provinces to the coastal areas in the east. The average altitude of this roughly
rectangular region, which stretches about 2,500 km from east to west and 1,700 km from north to south, is
1,100 meters. Deserts, mountains, and plateaus constitute 90 percent of the terrain. Oasis and river basin
land constitutes 10 percent of terrain, and more than 70 percent of the total population of 24.0 million
inhabits this 10 percent. The National Road 110 crosses the southern part of the region, linlking Beijing
and Tianjin port (on the east) to the westem provinces of China. About one-third of IMAR's population
lives along the NR1 10 and produces about two-thirds of GDP of the region. Basically, the entire IMAR is
classified by the Government as a poverty region.
6.     The Government of China plans to build five north-south and seven east-west corridor highways,
the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), before 2010. NR110 (Dantong-Lhasa Highway, or DLH) is
one of the seven east-west NTHS highways. The total length of DLH is about 4,669 km, of which about
20 percent (or 837 kIn) is in Inner Mongolia. Except for the project section, all other parts of DLH in Inner
Mongolia are either completed or under construction. The proposed highway is not only a key section of
the NTHS, it is also part of the crucial east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia linking its major industrial,
administrative and hub cities of Baotou, Hohhot and Jining. Given the important role of this corridor in the
rural economy, the proposed project has the highest priority in Inner Mongolia's regional highway
development plan.
Level and Timing of Investment
7.     For the proposed highway conidor, motorized traffic increased an average of 15.8 percent per
year between 1990-2000, and by 2000 had reached 6,000 motorized vehicles per day throughout its length.
Non-motorized and other traffic (e.g., bicycles, animal carts, small farm tractors, and motorcycles) add the
- 32 -



equivalent of 700-800 more vehicles per day. With a projected 8.0 percent annual growth, motorized
traffic alone on this highway corridor will reach 9,400-9,800 vehicles per day by 2006, the proposed
opening year for LJH. This would exceed the capacity of the existing road, which is about 4,500 vehicles
per day. An economic assessment of the optimum opening year of the highway shows that all sections of
the road reach capacity before 2000. When the more convenient highway connection from Gansu through
Ningxia and Inner Mongolia to the seaport of Tianjin is completed, high traffic growth resulting from the
Western Region Development Initiative of the government is anticipated.
Section 1       Section 2
Jining - Xinghe  Xinghe - Laoyeminao
Road Class (old road / new road)   II / Expressway  I1/ Expressway
Road Condition (old road / new road)  Fair / Good    Fair / Good
Terrain                                 Flat          Mountain
Capacity (AADT/day) (old road / new road)  5,000/30,000  4,000 / 25,000
Motorized Traffic - 2000 (AADT/day)    6,000           6,100
Year for Capacity                    Before 2000     Before 2000
Proposed Full Opening Year             2007            2007
Highway Corridor Traffic
8.      Estimates of base-year traffic were made on the basis of routine traffic counts and a
comprehensive origin and destination (O/D) survey that took place in October 1998 and was updated in
November 2000 and July 2001). Projections of base, generated, and diverted traffic were made for 25
zones on the basis of a conventional growth model. A regression analysis was used to derive a relationship
between economic growth and road transport demand. Rural economic growth and traffic demand indicate
that traffic in the project corridor will grow an average of 8.0 percent per year between 2000 and 2006, 6.0
percent per year between 2006 and 2015, and 4.1 percent per year between 2015 and 2025. The overall
traffic growth rates are summarized as follows:
Annual Traffic Growth Rate
Car     Bus & Truck     Average
Actual:   1990-2000       18.2%      15.2%         15.8%
Projection: 2000-2006     9.3%       7.6%           8.0%
2006-2015       7.3%        5.6%          6.0%
2015-2025       5.3%        3.7%          4.1%
9.      Alternatives. The feasibility study considered three alternative alignments, i.e. the full
expressway, staged expressway construction, and a Class I highway. Each alternative was compared on
the basis of costs, benefits, services to rural cities, and relationship to future economic development. The
full expressway was selected on the basis of cost and environmental and resettlement consequences (details
are in the feasibility study reports available in project files).
Traffic on the Highway
10.     The new expressway should start operations in October 2006. Based on the information in the
O/D survey and the feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by using financial VOC for the
road users as an independent variable, with due consideration given to the impacts of the proposed toll rates
and travel distances, as well as experience from other recent Bank-financed highway projects in China.
Calculations indicate that about 60 percent of motorized traffic on the corridor may divert to the new
highway, depending on the road section and vehicle type, during the opening year of LJH. Sensitivity tests
- 33 -



with lower diversion rates show that the LJH would still be justified with an average diversion rate of about
50 percent, a rate exceeded by most of the toll highways financed by the Bank in China.
11.     Generated traffic is assumed to be 10 percent of basic traffic. There is no railway line between
Jining and Laoyemiao, so no diversion of traffic from railway to the new expressway has been taken into
account. The highway corridor traffic forecast, by section, is summarized as follows:
Normal Traffic, by Sections (AADT)
Section 1            Section 2
Jining - Xinghe    Xinghe - Laoyemiao
The Existine Road:
Actual        1990            1,436                1,380
1995            2,851                2,880
1998            4,396                4,572
1999            5,195                5.262
2000            6,086                6,126
Forecast      2006            3,947                4,031
2015            5,800                6,110
2025            7,375                8,042
The Expresswav:
Forecast      2006            5,598                5,782
2015           10,131               10,795
2025           16,071               17,729
Economic Costs
12.     Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by eliminating price contingency, interest
payments during construction, and taxes and customs duty on imported materials, and by applying shadow
prices. The overall average shadow price is 1.07, and the resulting overall economic cost is 89.3 percent of
the financial cost.
Economic Benefits
13.     The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings on the new expressway
for normal and generated traffic (as summarized below); (b) time savings through relieved congestion on
the existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion
were quantified. The value of passenger time savings was estimated at RMB 1.5 per passengir-hour, on
the basis of updated values from a report on feasibility study methodologies for highways in China (Rust
PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report, February 1996). The same source was used for
vehicle accident rates on different classes of roads. The benefits of generated traffic were calculated using
the standard demand-curve analysis and the assumption of a linear relationship between demand and travel
cost over the relevant cost range.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(RMB per km, February 2002 prices)
Section I                      Section 2
Old road     New road         Old road       New road
Car                    0.929        0.764            1.073          0.837
Medlumnbus              1.661        1.362           2.117          1.493
Large bus              3.499        2.923            4.391          3.192
Small truck            1.705        1.385            1.890          1.512
Medium truck           2.095        1.785            2.305          1.938
Large truck            2.774        2.344            2.995          2.503
Tractor/trailer        4.257        3.643            4.507          3.824
- 34 -



Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(RMB per 1,000 veh.-km, February 2002 prices)
Medium   Large  Small   Medium   Large    Traller/
Car     bus     bust  ruck    Truck    truck   container
The Existina Road
Fuel                         408      544  1,125     800     928      990     1,140
Tires                         39      40    149      61       140     540      1,188
Maintenance                  367     490   1,013     720     835      891     1,026
Crew                          22      45     45      45       45       45        45
Depreciation                  29      113   310       79      147     308       858
Subtotal        865    1,232  2,642   1.705   2.095    2.774     4,257
Time value of passengers      64     429    857
Total         929     1,661  3.499   1.705   2.095    2.774     4.257
The New Exnresswav
Fuel                         306     416    900      576     736      750       840
Tires                         35       35   130       55      130     480      1,073
Maintenance                  330     441    912      648     752      802       923
Crew                          17      35     35       35      35       35        35
Depreciation                  26      102   279       71      132     277       772
Subtotal        714    1,029  2,256   1.385    1.785   2.344     3.643
Time value of passengers      50      333   667
Total         764     1362  2.923    1,385   1.785    2,344     3.643
Economic Evaluation
14.      The overall EIRR for LJH is estimated to be 15.1 percent, with the results for each road section
summarized as follows:
Economic Evaluation of LJH
NPV (12%,        Extra children     Extra people attending
EIRR (in %)    million RMB)    attending school /i    health services /_i
Jining-Xinghe              14.1          220.9              370                     850
Xinghe - Laoyemiao         17.6          194.6              205                     590
Whole route           15.1           429.6              575                   1,440
/1: Information was collected to establish baseline data on the indirect benefits derived from improved access to
education and health care services. However, its quantifiable benefits were not included.
15       The estimated distribution of the project benefits shows that traffic that diverts to LJH constitutes
the majority of the road user's benefits (61.4 percent), and that car and truck traffic will benefit the most
from the project (73.5 percent). A summary of the breakdown of the benefits is as follows:
Distribution of the Project Benefits (million RMB)
Road user         Road agency         Society
Total project                 1,615.3            (1,185.7)          429.6
Of which: Road user
a. By traffic:
Diverted traffic     Generated traffic  Existing road traffic  Road safet  Total
991.2                 49.6               527.0             47.5       1,615.3
61.4%                 3.1%               32.6%             2.9%        100.0%
b. By vehicles:              Buses              Trucks            Trailer     Total
428.1                 254.5              758.4             174.3      1,615.3
26.5%                 15.8%              47.0%             10.8%       100.0%
- 35 -



Sensitivity Analysis
16.     The basic evaluation of the project, by section and on the whole, indicates that the selected
alignment is economically viable. The sensitivity tests with respect to higher costs, lower benefits and
traffic projections, zero value of time, and zero generated-traffic benefits for LJH mnaintain this position.
The analysis of the optimum year for opening the road shows that delaying the completion by two years
would reduce the EIRR by about 3.6 percent.
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of LJH
EIRR (%)   NPV (12%, million RMB
Delay the completion by oneyear     13.3             184.4
Higher capital cost (+15%1a) (a)    13.6             237.6
Lower benefits (-15%) (b)           13.3             174.3
Combine (a) and (b)                 12.0              --
Zero value of time                  14.3             313.2
Zero generated traffic              14.7             365.1
Lower traffic projection            12.2              17.9
Switching values                    % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%            136%
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%        73.0 %
17.     The sensitivity evaluation also indicates that the conditions for the project to fall below the
minimum acceptable level for viability, i.e., an NPV of less than zero at a 12 percent discount rate or an
EIRR of less than 12 percent, are unlikely to occur. The benefits would have to fall to less than 73.0
percent of those in the base case, or the costs would have to increase to more than 1.36 times those of the
base costs, or a combination of costs increased by 1.15 percent and benefits fallen to 85 percent
simultaneously.
PART II: HIGHWAY NETWORK IPROVEMENT PROGRAM (HNIP)
Selection of Highways and Its Traffic
18.     The HNIP component consists of the following five rural roads totaling 343 km. The main
objective of the HNIP is to upgrade existing rural roads to Class II or Class III paved roads.
Length      Traffic    Road width (m)  Pavement
(km)    (AADT, 2000)    (Old / new)   (Old / new)
1.  Huade- Anye               85.0        966         8.5/ 12.0     Yes / Yes
2.   Kebuer - Baiyingzhagan   70.0        875         7.5 / 8.5      No / Yes
3.   Tumuertai - Shangdu      54.0        823         8.5/ 8.5       No / Yes
4.   Bailingmiao - Xilamuren  86.0       1,971         8.5/ 8.5      Yes /Yes
5.   Zuozi - Liangcheng       48.0        906          7.0/ 8.5      No /Yes
Total           343.0
19.     Because all five roads are in the same region, the rural economic development and traffic pattems
are quite similar. On the basis of actual traffic levels and rural economic growth rates, traffic growth rates
have been estimated, depending on the location of the roads, to be 3 percent to 5 percent from 2000-2005,
reduced by 1 percent for each year between 2005 and 2025.
- 36 -



Economic Costs and Benefits
20.     Financial costs have been converted to economic costs using the same method and factors as for
the LJH, with the results given in the following table.
Financial and Economic Cost For HNIP (million RMB)
Financial   Economic   Construction
cost        cost        period
I .  Huade - Anye            200.00       178.60    2003- 2005
2.   Kebuer- Baiyingchagan    80.00        71.44    2002- 2004
3.   Tumuertai - Shangdu      55.00        49.12    2002- 2003
4.   Bailingniao - Xilamuren  100.00       89.30    2002-2004
5.   Zuozi - Liangcheng       70.00        62.52    2003 - 2004
Total            505.00      450.98
21.     The principal evaluated benefits of the rural roads would be VOC savings due to better road
surfaces. The associated upgrading of road class would also result in higher traffic speeds and an
improvement in the road roughness index. In most of these sparsely populated areas, it is assumed that
there is no generated traffic.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
22.     The best estimates of EIRRs for the five rural roads range from 19.3 percent to 37.8 percent. The
overall EIRR for HNIP is 30.2 percent and the NPV is RMB 550.1 million.
EIRR and NPV for EINIP
NPV (12%,      Extra children   Extra people attendlnj
EIRR (in %)  million RMB)  attending school /_i  health services /I
1. Huade - Anye             19.3          73.7             450                 120
2. Kebuer - Baiyingchagan    33.5         110.0            450                 130
3. Tumuertai - Shangdu       34.6         90.0             450                 120
4. Bailingmiao - Xilamuren   37.8         190.4            180                  55
5. Zuozi - Liangcheng        33.4         86.0             450                  110
Total             30.2        550.1            1.980                535
LI: Information was collected to establish baseline data on the indirect benefits derived from improved access to education and health care
services. However its quantifiable benefits were not included.
23.     The risks associated with the evaluation of the rural roads are that traffic may grow more slowly
than projected, thus making VOC savings lower than expected, and construction cost may be higher than
projected. These risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests, and the results were found acceptable. For
the project component to be non-acceptable (i.e., an EIRR of less than 12 percent, or zero NPV),
construction costs would have to increase by more than 280 percent, or the benefits would have to be
reduced to about 35.7 percent of their expected value, or a combination of costs increasing by 152 percent
and benefits falling to 54 percent of expected values.
PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
24.     The overall EIRR of the project (including LJH and HNIP ) is estimated to be 17.9 percent and
the NPV (12 percent) is estimated to be RMB 979.7 million.
- 37 -



Project Risks
25.    All sections of the LJH and the rural roads under HNIP show acceptable economic returns.
IMCD has experience in building and operating high-grade highways as well as in rural road projects, so
the technical risks of implementing the project are minimal. Physically, the only tangible risk during
implementation is a very tight construction schedule and budget.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of LJH
26.    To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable and on
the likelihood of each value within this range.
27.    For the five rural roads, the sum of capital costs constitutes only about 20 percent of the total
capital investment. In view of their higher EIRR and lower capital investment, the probabilistic risk
analysis for the project focused instead on the construction of LJH. The factors with the most uncertainty
associated with the economic evaluation of LJH have been identified as follows: (a) traffic growth rate; (b)
traffic diversion ratio to the new expressway; (c) the value of VOC, (d) capital investment; and (e) delaying
the new highway opening to 2008. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis shows that the EIRR for
the mostly likely scenario is 13.6 percent. The low scenario is 12.6 percent and the high scenario is 14.4
percent The standard error of the mean is 0.1 percent. The detailed results of Monte Carlo test and
probabilistic risk analyses are shown in Appendix A and summarized as follows:
Summary of LJH Probabilistic Risk Analyses
Range of EIRR   Most Hkely EIRR  Standard Error of the Mean
Jining-Xinghe      11.9%-13.7%         12.2%                0.1%
Xinghe - Laoyeniiao  14.9%  16.8%      15.9%                0.1%
Total route    12.6% -14.4%         13.6%                0.1%
- 38 -



APPENDIX A
INNER MONGOLIA: LAOYEMIAO- JINING HIGHWAY
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from 8.0% to 19.0% (in%)
Entire Range is from 6.8% to 19.7% (in%)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.1%
Statistics:                                Value       Percentiles:
Trials                                 1000
Mean                                  13.5%                             Percentile      (in/04
Median                                13.6%                                   0%         6.8%
Mode                                     -                                   10%        11.1%
Standard Deviation                     1.8%      Low Scenario               20%         12.1%
Variance                              0.0%           '-                      30%        12.6%
Skewness                              -0.03      Most Likely                 40%        13.1%
Kurtosis                               3.29                                  50%        13.6%
Coeff. of Variability                  0.13      High Scenario               60%        14.0%
Range Minimum                         6.8%                                   70%        14.4%
Range Maximum                         19.7%                                  80%        15.0%
Range Width                           13.0%                                  90%        15.8%
Mean Std. Error                      0.06%                                  100%        19.7%
Fcrecw ERR - JLE (PMO4
1,000 Tials                            Frsuicy Chat                                 7 Oulia
-5-
=j
.000                                                                        0 1  -
8.0%           108%           1jsa;            1.3%            110
O(hN)
Assumutions
Traffic Growth Rate                                    Traffic Diversion Ratio
Normal distribution with parameters:                   Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                       100.0%                      Mean                                  100.0%
Standard Dev.                15.0%                     Standard Dev.                          10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infnity           Selected range is from -Infmity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 100.2%                    Mean value in simulation was 99.6%
VOC                                                    Capital Cost
Triangular distribution with parameters:               Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                     95.0%                      Minimum                               100.0%
Likeliest                  100.0%                      Likeliest                             110.0%
Maximum                    110.0%                      Maximum                               120.0%
Selected range is from 95.0% to 110.0%                 Selected range is from 95.00% to 120.0%
Mean value in simulation was 101.8%                    Mean value in simulation was 109.9%
-39 -



Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of LJH
EIRR (%)    NPV (12%, million RMB)
Delay the completion by oneyear         133               184.4
Higher capital cost (+15%) (a)          13.6              237.6
Lower benefits (-15%) (b)               13.3              174.3
Combine (a) and (b)                     12.0               --
Zerovalueoftime                         14.3              313.2
Zero generated traffic                  14.7              365.1
Lowertrafficprojection                  12.2               17.9
Switching values                        % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                 136%
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%             73.0 %
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
1.     The financial evaluation of the project comprises two parts. Part I is for the LJH, a toll
revenue-earning component; and Part II is for the rural roads network investment under the HNIP
component, a non-financial-revenue-earning entity.
2.     The financial cost of the project is calculated using the weighted average cost of funds from
various sources. The opportunity cost of capital for the local grants as well as for the Bank loan are
assumed at an average of 5 percent, and thus the average financial cost of capital for the project is
estimated to be 5.0 percent.
PART I: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF LJH
3.     The project calls for LJH to start trial operations in October 2006 and full operations in January
2007. IMCD will establish a Program Management Office in charge of operating LJH. The PMO, on
behalf of IMCD, will be responsible for the day-to-day management, operation, maintenance, and
development of the highway. The PMO also will bear the financial obligations and its own development
including the repayment of the loans. The main financial revenue of LJH will come from toll charges,
which are strictly controlled by the govermment.
Financial Objective
4.     IMCD has indicated that the purpose of toll collection is not to maximize the financial rate of
return on the capital investment, but to repay the Bank's loan and to cover operation and maintenance
expenses. The intended toll charges are quite reasonable (the toll charges for 2007 are at a level similar to
the average toll charged by coastal provinces in China in 2000). The upward adjustment of toll rates was
assumed to be slow, about 3.7 percent per year.
Financial Forecast
5.     Toll. The toll is based on vehicle size (small passenger cars, medium bus, large buses, small
trucks, medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Some toll-exempted vehicles
(police, ambulance and military vehicles) are expected to make up about 10 percent of total traffic. The
proposed toll charges for LJH are as follows:
Toil Charges (RMB / vehicle-km)
Small  Medium   Large    Small    Medium    Large  Tractor-
car     bus     bus     truck    truck   I truck  trailer
0.412   0.634   0.948    0.412    0.634     0.948    1.240
6.     Operations. Based on current practice elsewhere in China, the operating costs of LJH shall
include: (i) wages and benefits; (ii) maintenance; (iii) operating materials and supplies; (iv) administration;
(v) others, and (vi) depreciation. All other expenses such as interest payments of the loan and others are
included in the calculation of the profitability of LJH.
7      Profitability. Total operating revenue is estimated on the basis of traffic and toll charges. It is
estimated that the total operating revenue of the LJH would be sufficient for IMCD to pay all its
-41 -



expenditures, including operating expenses, nonoperating expenses, routine maintenance, and expenditures
for major maintenance when it takes place (see the income statement, page I of 3, Appendix A).
8.     Cashflow. It is estimated that net income after taxes will be at least RMB 70 million after the
opening of the LJH in 2007. The annual cash injection plus the depreciation reserves (about RMB 50
million per year) would further strengthen the cash-flow capacity of LJH. The LJH will have no difficulty
meeting its financial obligations, which are estimated to be about 80 million RMB per year. It is expected
that the low toll charges on vehicles will not affect the daily operations of the highway over the entire loan
period (see Sources and Applications of Funds table, page 2 of 3, Appendix A).
9.     Leverage and liquidity. The high portion of the Bank's loan will affect the financial leverage of
the LJH, which will erode part of the equity and'affect the debt/equity ratio and debt/capital ratio (the
financial leverage of the LJH) until 2010. However, the strong cash injections (see paragraph 8) will cause
the current ratio (the liquidity of the LJH) to be healthy over the life of the loan. The current ratio of LJH
will reach about 2.3, which is far from the critical ratio for short-term solvency problems of 1.0. (see
Balance Sheet, page 3 of 3, Appendix A). The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown in
Appendix B.
10.    Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR). The low toll charges and the low toll growth
assumptions will have a great financial impact on the FIRR The results of the financial evaluation show
that the FIRR for LJH is expected to be 7.9 percent for the equity and 5.8 percent for the entire project In
addition, the FIRR will not change much if the project completion date is delayed by one year, as
summarized below:
FIRR (in %) and Net Present Value ( 5.0%, million RMB)
On Equity          Total Investment
FIRR     NPV         FIRR      NPV
Base case               7.9     416.1        5.8      135.1
Delayoneyear(to2008)    7.7     381.1        5.7      100.0
11.    Financial Probabilistic RiskAnalysis. The financial condition of LJH may face risks of
uncertainty if the major financial assumptions (or the factors) are not borne out. To measure the degree of
uncertainty for these factors, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out.
The five most uncertain factors that may affect the financial evaluation have been identified as: (a) traffic
growth rate, (b) toll charges, (c) total working costs, (d) capital investment, and (e) a delay in opening the
new expressway by one year. The result (financial simulation and probabilistic risk analysis) reveals that
the most likely FIRR would be 5.0 percent, while the worst and the best FIRR would be 3.9 percent and
6.0 percent, respectively. A sample of the analyses is in Appendix C and summarized below.
Summary of Financial Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
I Range of FIRR / NPV  |  Most Likely Case  | Std. Errr of the Mean |
FIRR (in %)                3.9 - 6.0             5.0                0.1
NPV (5.0%, million RMB)  -267.5 - 265.5          4.1                15.8
Impact on the Level of the Toil Charge
12.    Adequate toll charges are very important for the financial viability of the highway project. The
level of tolls must generate enough revenue to obtain the higher financial rate of return on investment, but
not deter potential users and compromise economic objectives. These objectives can be contradictory,
-42 -



because the former requires a higher toll while the latter requires a lower one. The analysis shows that the
overall average unit toll revenue for 2007 will be about RMB 0.69/veh-km, which should be able to
generate the sufficient funds to serve the repaymnent of the loan. Sensitivity tests on the level of tolls
showed that at a toll of RMB 2.0/veh-km, both EIRR and FIRR are still justified. Beyond this rate, the
EIRR falls rapidly while the FIRR almost reaches its maximumn. Furthermore, if all construction costs
were privately financed instead of being covered by government grant (about 60 percent of the total capital
cost), average tolls would need to be over RMB 3.0/veh-kmn to generate an optimal FIRR to providers of
both debt and equity, and this toll level would substantially reduce the project's economic benefits.
Sensitivity of Evaluation Results to Variations in Toil Charges
Average toll charges (RMB /vehicle-hn)  EIRR (%)  FIRR (%)
0.35                  15.5        -1.0
0.69                  15.1         5.8
1.00                  14.1         9.2
2.00                  13.2        16.3
3.00                  10.9        18.0
4.00                   8.2        16.5
PART II: THE RNANCIAL EVALUATION OF HNIP
13.    The five roads under the HNIP are toll-free roads. The financial evaluation of these
non-revenue-earning roads should ensure that IMCD maintains sound financial practices to minimize
financial risks (i.e., a lack of counterpart funds for construction and operating expenses for the project
roads).
14.    IMCD has provided a financing plan for its total revenues and expenditures for the Ninth
Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) and the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005). Based on the Inner Mongolia
highway development plan, IMCD has acquired sufficient funds to cover new road construction and the
existing road network maintenance. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio would ensure the
implementation of the development plan. The latest actual data, from 2000, reveal that about 43 percent of
IMCD's total revenues are generated from internal cash flow. The detailed source and expenditure for
1996-2005 are shown in Appendix D of this annex.
15.    Following the increases in the length of the provincial road network every year, IMCD also
provides additional resources for maintenance on the existing road network. During the Ninth Five-Year
Plan, expenditures for maintenance increased by 20 percent in total. During the same period, the road
network increased about 47 percent in total length. As a result, the unit maintenance expenditures were
reduced by an average of 4 percent each year, dropping from RMB 9,350 per km in 1996 to RMB 7,630
per year in 2000. This indicates that the level of expenditure on road maintenance during the Ninth
Five-Year Plan was not sufficient to maintain the road network in a stable condition. In the Tenth
Five-Year Plan, IMCD decided to increase financial inputs to road maintenance. Road maintenance for
2001 is budgeted at 8 percent higher than in 2000 (RMB 8,250 per km vs. RMB 7,630 per kIn). On top of
this increase, the road maintenance budget increases every year to RMB 10,890 per km in 2005-an
average increase of 5.7 percent per year.
16.    The overall program shows that the expenditures and road construction and maintenance for the
toll-free roads included in the project constitute only a small fraction of IMCD's fund flow. Therefore the
fiscal impact would be minimal. Based on the IMCD plan, the capital investment of HNIP is less than 4.8
percent of total annual IMCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure for HNIP is less
-43 -



than 0.5 percent of the total maintenance expenditure of IMCD. These low ratios indicate that the project
presents a modest financial risk regarding the availability of a counterpart funds for construction and
maintenance of the project roads. The details are shown in Appendix D of this annex and summarized
below:
IMCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
9th        10th
Five-Year   Five-Year
Plan        Plan
Average annual increase in the road network         8.0        2.0
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures  -4.0      5.7
IMCD: Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (million RM
2002      2003      2004       2005
Investments and Revenue:
HFnP Investments (a)                  70.00    200.00     160.00     80.00
Total IMCD Revenue (b)              3,323.00  4,166.54  4,214.45  4,504.05
Ratios (a)/(b)                          2.10/    4.8%       3.8%      1.8%
Maintenance Expenditures:
HNIP (c)                                                   2.00       3.75
Total IMCD Maintenance Expenditure (d)  636.0C  900.00     779.80    827.97
Ratios (c)/(d)                                --           0.3%      0.5%
- 44 -



APPENDIX A
Page I of 3
Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Income Statement
(milion RMB , year ending 31 December)
2007    2008    2009     2010   2011    2012    2013    2014    2015
Traffic (million veh-km) /L    308.01  329.58   352.66  377.35  403.78  432.05  462.31  494.68  529.32
Revenue
Tolls                         213.32  228.26   244.24  261.34  279.64  358.60  383.71  410.58  439.33
Others                             -       -        -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Total              213.32  228.26   244.24  261.34  279.64  358.60  383.71  410.58  439.33
Overatine Taxes
Business tax                   10.67   11.41    12.21   13.07   13.98   17.93  19.19   20.53   21.97
City tax                        0.75    0.80     0.85    0.91    0.98    1.26   1.34    1.44    1.54
Education levy                  0.32    0.34     0.37    0.39    0.42   0.54    0.58    0.62    0.66
Total               11.74   12.55    13.43   14.37  15.38   19.73   21.11   22.59   24.17
NetRevenue                     201.58  215.71   230.81  246.97  264.26  338.87  362.60  387.99  415.16
Overatine Costs
Wages and benefits              2.52    2.65     2.78    2.92    3.07    3.22   3.38    3.55    3.73
Maintenance /2                  9.58   10.07    10.56   11.10   11.64   12.23  12.84   13.48  184.07
Operatingmaterialsandsupplies  23.96   25.16    26.41   27.73   29.12   30.58  32.11   33.71   35.40
Administration & management     1.51    1.59     1.67    1.75    1.84    1.93   2.03    2.13    2.24
Others                          3.83    4.03     4.23    4.44    4.66   4.89    5.14    5.39    5.66
Total working costs       41.40   43.50    45.65   47.94  50.33   52.85   55.50   58.26  231.10
Depreciation                   48.18   48.18    48.19   48.26   48.34  48.42   48.50   48.59   49.81
Total operating costs     89.58   91.68    93.84   96.20   98.67  101.27  104.00  106.85  280.91
OneratineProfit                 112.00  124.03  136.97  150.77  165.59  237.60  258.60  281.14  134.25
Financial charges: IBRD            -   41.02    39.09   37.05   34.90   32.66  30.30   27.83   25.22
Local
Other expenses (income)            -    5.35     5.35    5.35    5.36    5.35   5.35    5.35    5.35
Profit Before Taxes             11200   77.66    92.53  108.37  125.33  199.59  222.95  247.96  103.68
Income tax                     37.30   25.86    30.81   36.09   41.73   66.46  74.24   82.57   34.53
Net Profit After Taxes          74.70   51.80    61.72   72.28   83.60  133.13  148.71  165.39  69.15
/1: The highway is planned to start the trail operation in October 2006 and the full operation in January 2007.
/2: Major maintenance: once for each 10 years
-45 -



APPEN)DIX A
Page 2 of 3
Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Sources and Applications of Funds
(mfllion RMB, year ending 31 December)
2000  2001   2002  2003  2004   2005  2006  2007   2008  2009   2010  2011  2012   2013  2014
Net profits           -      -                                 74.70 51.80  61.72  72.28  83.60 133.13 148.71 165.39
Depreciation             -         -     -      -     -     - 48.18 48.18 48.19 48.26 48.34 48.42 48.50    48.59
State contribution  36.40 72.80 109.20 145.60 145.60 109.20 72.80 36.40  -     -      -     -     -
Local contribution  16.46 32.90 58.76 84.65 89.34 68.19 47.03 25.86
Borrowing: IBRD              - 83.00 166.00 207.50 166.00 124.50  83.00
Local
Others                -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -
Total             528   105702 2509 39622 42&    3      244f33 268.14 229   1 122  120.54 131.94 181.55 197.21 2139
AnDlicsfons;
Capital expenditure  52.86 105.70 250.96 396.25 442.44 343.39 244.33 145.24  1.01  1.06  1.11  1.16  1.22  1.28  1.35
Other expenditure     -      -           -      -     -     -            -     -      -     -     -
Loau repayment:
IBRD            -      -     -     -      -     -     -      - 38.29 40.22  42.26 44.41 46.65  49.01  51.48
Local           -      -           -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -
Change w/ capit                    -     -      -                  - (3.67) (3.92) (4.19) (4.49) (19.36) (6.15) (6.59)
Total       52.86 105.70 250.96 396.25 442.44 343.39 244.33 145.24 35.63  37.36  39.18 41.08 28.51  44.14 46.24
Net Fonds Flow                                                12290  64.35  72.55  8L39i 2    153.04 153.7 MM I 74
Open balance          -      -     -     -      -     -     -      - 122.90 187.25 259.80 341.16 432.02 585.06 738.13
aosing balance        -      -     -     -      -     -     - 122.90 187.25 259.80 341.16 432.02 585.06 738.13 905.87
D/S Cover                                                             1.73   1.82  1.92  2.03   2.S9  2.75   2.92
-46 -



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
Laoyemiao - Jining Highway
Balance Sheet
(million RMB , year ending 31 December)
2007      2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014     2015
Assets;
Fixed Assets
At cost                   1460.01  1460.10  1460.20  1462.42   1464.75  1467.20  1469.77  1472.47  1509.28
Less: Depreciation          92.52   140.70   188.89   237.15   285.49   333.91    382.41   431.00   480.81
Net fixed assets      1367.49   1319.40  1271.31  1225.27  1179.26  1133.29  1087.36  1041.47  1028.47
Current Assets
Inventory                    1.07     1.14     1.22     1.31      1.40     1.79     1.92     2.05     2.20
Receivable                   0.86     0.86     0.86     0.86     0.86     0.86      0.86     0.86     0.86
Cash                       122.90   187.25   259.80   341.16   432.02   585.06    738.13   905.87   976.36
Subtotal            124.83   189.25   261.88   343.33   434.28   587.71    740.91   908.78   979.42
Other Assets                     -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Total Assets                192       5558C   1555         .    1613.54  1121.0   182827   1950.25  2007.8
Liabilties & Eaultv
State funds- Equity          608.99   659.87   720.63   794.02   878.79  1013.15  1163.15  1329.89   1434.43
UL/ loans: IBRD             830.00    791.71   751.49   709.23   664.82   618.17   569.16   517.68   463.59
Local                  -        -                 .             -             -        -        -
Subtotal            830.00   791.71   751.49   709.23   664.82   618.17    569.16   517.68   463.59
Current Liabilities          53.33     57.07    61.07    65.35    69.93    89.68    95.96    102.68   109.87
Other Liabilities                -         -        -                 -        -        -        -        -
Total LIabilfties & Equity  1492.2   1508.6   153J2    1.0      1613.4   50Q      122       1950.25  2007.89
Debt: capital ratio            57.7     54.5     51.0     47.2     43.1     37.9     32.9     28.0      24.4
Debt/ equity ratio           59/41     56/44    53/47    49/51    46/54    41/59    36/64    32/68    29/71
Current ratlo                   2.3      3.3      4.3      5.3      6.2      6.6      7.7      8.9       8.9
Fixed assets: 80% of capital investment and 20% of maintenance.
Equity - Total asset - Total Liabilities.
Current liabilities  10% of toll revenue.
-47 -



APPENDIX B
Laoyemiao - Jining Highway
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic (normal, AADT):
Small    Medium     Large      Small     Medium      Large      Tractor
car       bus       bus      truck      truck       truck      -Trailer    Total
Section 1:Jining - Xinghe
2006     1,328     614        306       419        1,439       508        984       5,598
2015     2,652     1,129      561       704       2,636        930       1,519      10,131
2025     4,665     1,806      895       1,019     4,205       1,485      1,996      16,071
Section 2:Xinghe- Laoyemiao
2006     1,390      594       245       437        1,852       805        459        5,782
2015     2,894     1,138      469       766       3,250       1,539       739       10,795
2025     5,336     1,909      786       1,162     4,940       2,577       1,019     17,729
2. Toll Rates (RMB I veh-km): Increase 20% every five year.
Small   Medium       Large    Small      Medium        Large    Tractor
car       Bus        bus     truck       truck       truck   -Trailer
0.412      0.634     0.948    0.412        0.634       0.948     1.240
3. Operating Taxes:
a. Business Tax        5% of total revenue.
b. City Tax            7% of business tax.
c. Education levy      3% of business tax.
4. Operating Cost:           Increase 5.0 % pa.
a. Wages and benefits:    Y 20,000/ staff/ year, 40 staffs/ station and 3 stations.
b. Maintenance (million RMB / kmn):
Routine                    Major
maintenance                maintenance
(annual)                  (/10 years)
0.100                      1.300
c. Operating materials
and supplies     0.25 million RMB per Ion.
d. Administration   60.0% of wage and benefits.
e. Other              0.04 million RMB per km.
f. Depreciation        30 years straight-line method.
5. Income tax           33.3% of total profit before taxes.
6. Loan:   IBRD          5.0% on 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency, including 5 years grace period.
-48 -



APPENDIX C
INNER MONGOLIA: LAOYEMIAO - JINING HiGHWAY
FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from -2.0% to 10.0% FIRR (IN %/o)
Entire Range is from -2.4% to 10.9% FIRR (IN %)
After 999 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0. 1%
Statistics:                            Value       Percentiles:
Trials                             999
Mean                              4.9%                                Percentile  FIRR (in %)
Median                            5.0%                                      0%        -2.4%
Mode                                --                                     10%         2.2%
Standard Deviation                2.1%       Low Scenario                  20%         3.2%
Variance                          0.0%                  .                  30%         3.9%
Skewness                          -0.37      Most Likely                   40%         4.5%
Kurtosis                           3.26                                    50%         5.0%
Coeff. of Variability              0.43      High Scenario                 60%         5.6%
Range Minimum                    -2.4%                    -        1       70%         6.0%
Range Maximum                    10.9%                                     80%         6.6%
Range Width                      13.3%                                     90%         7.4%
Mean Std. Error                  0.07%                                    100%         10.9%
Forecast J:ANNLAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY
999 Trials                             Frequency Chart                            5 Outitero
.025                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25
.r  2  |21 l-sll lllllllii l1_t                                                    <
-  D14                                                                       1
Za%             CM1.           4.0%           7.0%            100
F0N %)
Assumptions
Trafflc Growth                                     Toll charges
Normal distribution with parameters:               Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                     100.0%                    Mean                       100.0%
Standard Dev.             15.0%                    Standard Dcv.               10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity      Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.1%                Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
Total working cost                                Capital Investment
Triangular distribution with parameters:           Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                  90.0%                     Minimum                    100.0%
Likeliest                100.0%                    Likeliest                  100.0%
Maximum                 110.0%                     Maximum                    120.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%             Selected range is from 100.0% to 120.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.0%                Mean value in simulation was 106.6%
- 49 -



APPENDIX D
Page I of 2
Inner Mongolia: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five Year Plan
(million RMB)
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000     Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                               659.21  706.00  720.00  773.90  853.00  3,712.11
2 Road construction fee                                95.41  103.00  105.00  114.00  126.00   543.41
3 Vehicle purchase fee                                81.51   82.50   86.63   92.00  100.00    442.64
4MOC subsidy                                          449.65  321.36  507.20  570.26  680.00  2,528.47
5 MOF subsidy                                           1.14    1.14   1.14    1.14    1.14      5.70
6 Road maintenance for car                             54.54  65.00   68.00   70.00   78.00    335.54
7Tolls                                                25.06   25.00   26.00   31.00   32.00    139.06
8 Bank loan                                               -  300.00 1,070.00  970.00  870.00  3,210.00
Total                         1.366.52 1.604.00 2.58397 2.622.30 2.740.14  10.916.93
Expenditure:
I New construction                                   745.65 1,004.00 1,806.90 1,611.35 1,828.48  6,996.38
2 Routine maintenance                                  95.22  90.90   105.51  147.41  158.46   597.50
3 Rehabilitation maintenance                          179A8   171.30  198.90  120.40  136.27   806.35
4Local roads maintenance                              152.87  153.80  178.19  373.02  219.28  1,077.16
SAdministrationandstudy                               137.39  127.58  152.20  135.35  153.20   705.72
6 Management                                           36.10  36.00   41.00   46.11   52.25    211.46
7 Other expenditures                                   19.81  20.42   20.77   27.46   31.00    119.46
8 Repayment of interest and principle                     -       -   80.50  161.20  161.20    402.90
Total                         1.366.52 1.604.00 2.583.97 2.622.30 2.740.14  10.916.93
Total Road Network (kIn) -(a)                         45,744  49,992  58,430  63,824  67,346   285,336
Average annual increase                                    -    9.3%   16.9%   9.2%    5.5%      8.0%
Total maintenance expenditure (million RMB )-(b)/l    427.57  416.00  482.60  640.83  514.01  2,481.01
Average unit maintenance. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)l(a)  9.35  8.32  8.26   10.04    7.63      8.70
Average annual increase                                   -- -11.0%    -0.7%  21.6%  -24.0%     -4.0%
I_1: Sum of routine, rehabilitation and local roads maintenance.
Actual :1996-2000.
- 50 -



APPENDIX D
Page 2 of 2
Inner Mongolia: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Tenth Five Year Plan
(milion RMB)
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
Revenue
1 Road maintenance fee                               944.60 1,058.00 1,196.00 1,305.00 1,440.00  5,943.60
2 Road construction fee                              140.00  157.00  177.00  193.00  212.00   879.00
3 Vehicle purchase fee                               110.70  124.00  140.00  153.00  168.00   695.70
4 MOC subsidy                                        750.00  840.00  950.00 1,035.00 1,140.00  4,715.00
5 MOF subsidy                                          1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14     5.70
6 Road maintenance for car                            85.00   95.00  106.40  116.00  127.00   529.40
7Tolls                                                39.56   44.86   51.46   56.86  61.86    254.60
8Bank loan                                          1,370.00 1,003.00 1,544.54 1,354.45 1,354.45  6,626.44
Total                        3.441.  3.323.00 4     . 214.45 4,504.45  19649.44
Expenditure:
I New construction                                  2,343.00 2,103.60 2,580.34 2,676.45 2,863.45  12,566.84
2 Routine maintenance                                175.50  197.00  222.00  242.00  265.00  1,101.50
3 Rehabilitation maintenance                         151.00  169.00  169.00  184.00  203.00   876.00
4 Local roads maintenance                            242.64  270.00  509.00  353.80  359.97  1,735.41
5Administration and study                            169.86  191.00  215.50  235.00  259.00  1,070.36
6 Management                                          58.00   65.00   73.50   80.00   88.00   364.50
7 Other expenditures                                  34.00   38.00   43.00   49.00   54.00   218.00
8 Repayment of interest and principle                267.00  289.40  354.20  394.20  412.03  1,716.83
Total                        3A4100 3.323.00 4,16.54 4.214.45 4.504.45  19.649.44
Total Road Network (kIn) -(a)                         69,000  70,700  72,500  74,000  76,000  362,200
Average annual increase                                2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.1%    2.7%      2.0%
Total maintenance expenditure (million RMB )-(b) /j   569.14  636.00  900.00  779.80  827.97  3,712.91
Average unit maintenance. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  8.25  9.00  12.41  10.54  10.89     10.25
Average annual increase                                8.1%    9.1%   38.0%  -15.1%    3.4%      5.7%
/_1: Sum of routine, rehabilitation and local roads maintenance.
Estimate:2001. forecast: 2002-2005
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Procurement
Summary of PCAR's Findings
1.     A procurement capacity assessment of the project executing agencies was carried out during
preparation of the project, and the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report of March 2002 is in project
files. The overall assessed risk was "average". This annex summarizes its findings and assessment of the
report.
2.     IMCD will be responsible for all project related procurement activities. IMCD has implemented the
first Bank-financed Tri-Provincial Highway Project (Inner Mongolia component), and proven its
procurement capacity by handling procurement in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines.
IMCD expanded the existing Hohhot East Exit Expressway Project Management Office (PMO),
established in October 1999 to cover the Hohhot-Jining-Laoyemiao Highway (HJLH) in March 2001.
About 10 experienced staff versed in Bank procurement processes and procedures will be in charge of the
project procurement. The implementing agencies for the road network improvement component are Baotou
Municipal Conimunications Bureau and Ulancabu Prefecture Communications Bureau, which are directly
under the control of PMO.
3.    IMCD has appointed China Intemational Tendering Company of China National Technical Import
and Export Corp. Ltd. (ITC of CNTIC) for intemational competitive bidding (ICB) civil works and goods.
ITC of CNTIC has extensive experience in carrying out ICB under Bank-financed projects as well as under
other intemational financial institutions and domestically financed projects. It is also familiar with national
competitive bidding on Bank-financed projects. Procurement arrangements are generally the same as in
Tri-Provincial Highway Project.
4.     The assessment confirmed that IMCD is capable of satisfactorily managing procurement activities
of the project. IMCD staff have been involved in Tri-Provincial Highway Project and have enhanced their
knowledge of Bank's requirements for procurement and selection of consultants during the project
preparation.
5.     As outlined in the assessment, while China's domestic procurement procedures fail to fully comply
with the Bank's procurement guidelines, for example by permitting bracketing and merit point system for
bid evaluation, Inner Mongolia Govemment and IMCD are fully committed to strictly follow the Bank
guidelines. Any incompatibilities between Chinese procedures and the Bank's procurement principles and
guidelines will be addressed in the Procurement Supplemental Letter to be signed with the Legal
Agreements.
6.     The Procurement Supplemental Letter will specify the following NCB procedures: (a) all
invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation in China; (b)
such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or
bidding documents and prepare and submit their response; and in any event a minimum of 30 days shall be
given to bidders between the date of advertisement and the deadline for submission of bids, and the
advertisement and the bidding document shall specify the required form and amount of bid security; (c)
qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be
- 52 -



specified in detail in the bidding documents; (d) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the
deadline for receipt of bids; (e) all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an
opportunity to be present, if they so desire (either in person or through their authorized representatives) at
the time of bid opening; (f) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any
standard contract estimate, or margin, or bracket of average bids established by Inner Mongolia region; and
(g) each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is to say, the bidder who
meets the appropriate standards of capacity and resources and whose bid has been determined (i) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents issued to bidders and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated
price. The winning bidder shall not be required, as condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
Procurement methods (Table A)
7.     Procurement would be carried out as shown in Table A. Procurement under the project will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) as well
as the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The documentation for procurement, which covers the
prequalification of contractors, ICB and national competitive bidding (NCB) for civil works, and ICB for
goods, was standardized for Chinese conditions by the Chinese government and the Bank on the basis of
model documents which would be used for all relevant procurement processes under the project. Where no
agreed model documents exist, Bank standard documents would be used. The General Procurement Notice
(GPN) for the project was published in the UN Development Business issue No. 569 of October 31, 2001.
As GOC is yet to finalize the NCB guidelines, the incompatibilities with Bank procedure as stated in para.
6 above will be addressed in the procurement Supplemental Letter to be signed with the project legal
agreements. For ICB, any differences between the Chinese MBDs and the Bank SBDs will be addressed
through the preparation and issuance of a change list that will be included in the bidding documents.
8.     Works (US$230.0 million). Civil works for Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (LJH) would be divided
into 6 contracts, with an average size of about US$24 million. The 6 civil works contracts for LJH would
be procured under ICB procedures. There would be one tender call for the 6 civil works contracts which
would be bid on a slice-and-package basis; qualified firms would be allowed to bid for more than one
contract so as to attract international contractors and large Chinese contractors. Contractors bidding for
civil works under ICB would be prequalified. The Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the civil works
and consulting services required to supervise the LJH was published in the UN Development Business on
January 16, 2002. Each contract for works estimated at US$50 million or more will provide for a dispute
review board set forth in the standard bidding documents (referred to in para.2.42 of the above-mentioned
Guidelines). For contract estimated below US$50 million, a dispute review expert will be used.
Electro-mechanical works (EMW) would be handled as one contract and will be also procured through an
ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
9.     Other works, including buildings (estimated at US$3.8 million with three contract packages),
highway network improvements (US$59.5 million with sixteen contract packages) and the highway safety
program (US$2.0 million with fifteen contract packages), each contract to cost below US$10 million, will
be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Since they will be relatively small,
scattered throughout the province and implemented over four years, ICB will not be justified or practical;
however, foreign firms will not be prevented from bidding.
- 53 -



10.    Equipment (US$ 6A million). Contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or more up to a total amount of US$6.2 million will be awarded under ICB. Domestic
manufactures competing under ICB will be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of
15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Other items or groups of items
covering maintenance and laboratory equipment estimated to be under US$100,000 per contract package,
with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.2 million, will be procured following intemational shopping
procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, from two
countries, eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
11.    Consultants (US$6.6 million). Consultants required for construction supervision, and staff
training to be implemented under the IST component will be selected and employed under terns and
conditions acceptable to the Bank according to Guidelines on the "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in July 1997 and January 1999). For
consultant services, the Standard Request for Proposals (July 1997, revised in April 1998 and in July
1999), will be used. Consulting services with an estimated contract cost of US$100,000 or more to a total
value of US$1.5 million for finm will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS).
With Bank's prior agreement, single source selection for contracts not expected to cost more than
US$100,000 (aggregate at US$0.1 mnillion in total) may be used in accordance with provision of paras. 3.8
through 3.11 of the Bank Guidelines for selection of consultants. Individual consultants for contract
amount less than US$50,000 per contract for an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.1 million will be
selected according to paras. 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines. Services which are estimated to cost less
than the above threshold per contract, may, with the Bank' prior agreement, be procured by Consultant's
Qualification (CQ) in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines. CQ procedure was proposed for training contracts for which the need for preparing and
evaluating a competitive proposal is not justified. The estimated aggregate amount under CQ procedure is
US$0.5 million. Local experts from various independent provincial universities and institutes will be used
as much as possible. All consultant services above US$200,000 will be advertised in the UN Development
Business.
Prior review thresholds (fable B)
12.   Prior review procedures will be used for:
(a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of US$2 million or more;
(b) equipment with an estimated cost of over US$200,000 or more per contract; and
(c) consulting services with an estimated contract cost of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and
US$50,000 or more for individuals.
13.    Regarding consultant contracts, terms of reference and single-source selections, regardless of the
value of the contract, will be subject to prior review. This will apply to 97% each of the total contract
values of works and goods financed by the Bank. For contracts below these limits, post-review procedures
will be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts subject to post review will be 33.3 percent.
- 54 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                  ICB                NCB            Other           N.B.F.'      Total Cost
Works
Expressway
Civil Work                          158.5                                                             158.5
(61.9)                                                            (61.9)
Buildings                                               3.8                                            3.8
(1.1)                                          (1.1)
E & M facilities                     5.7                                                               5.7
(4.0)                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4.0)
Highway Network                                           (23.0)                                         (293.50
Improvement                                                2.0                                            2.0
2.0                                            2.0
Highway Safety Program                                    (0.6)                                           (0.6)
Environmental Protection                                                                     0)            0.0
(0.0)         (0.0)
Sub Total                              164.2               65.3                             0.5           230.0
(65.9)             (24.7)                           (0.0)         (90.6)
Goods
Equipment                               6.2                                 0.2                            6.4
(6.2)                               (0.2)                          (6.4)
Services
Construction                                                                1.5             4.3            5.8
(1.5)           (0.0)         (1.5)
Training                                                                    0.5             0.3            0.8
(0.5)           (0.0)         (0.5)
Sub Total                                                                   2.0             4.6            6.6
(2.0)           (0.0)         (2.0)
Miscellaneous
Land acquisition &                                                                          6.8            6.8
resettlement                                                                                (0.0)         (0.0)
Interest during construction                                                                17.9          17.9
(0.0)         (0.0)
Front-end fee                                                               1.0                            1.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (1.0)  _ _ _ _ _ _ (1.0)
Total                                    170.4               65.3             3.2             29.8          268.7
(72.1)             (24.7)            (3.2)           (0.0)        (100.0)
a/ Other includes intemational shopping, and consultants and training.
b/ N.B. F. = Not Bank-financed
c/ Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guideline for Use of Consultants.
Note:   (1) Figure in pareatheses are the amount to be financed by the Bank loan
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost of land acquisition and
resettlement which is shown as a separate component
- 55 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  .QCBS   QBS      SFB     LCS      CQ       SS     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms                1.5                               0.3     0.1              4.6      6.5
(1.5)    (-)     (-)     (-)      (0.3)   (0.1)    (-)     (0.0)    (1.9)
B. Individuals                                                     -      0.1               0.1
_________ _______(____  -)  (-)  (-)  (-)   (-)     (-)     (0.1)    (-)      (0.1)
Total   1.5                               0.3     0.1      0.1     4.6       6.6
(1.5)    (-)     (-)     (-)     (0.3)    (0.1)   (0.1)    (0.0)     (2.0)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS =    Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS    = Quality-based Selection
SFB    =  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS    =  Least-Cost Selection
CQ     = Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications
SS    =   Single Source Selection
Other =   Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan)
Table A2: Procurement Schedule for Consulting Services
Activity       Firm/lndividuals  Method of Selection  Estimated Cost     Procurement
Schedule
1.    Construction         Firm         QCBS                 US$1.5 million   Jan. - Nov. 2002
Supervision (Interrational)
2.     Training Program     Firm         CQ                  US$0.3 million     2003 - 2007
(29 subjects)
3.    Training Program     Firm         SS                   US$0.1 million      2003 - 2007
(3 subjects)     Individual      Qualifications      US$0.1 million
- 56 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Conlract Value Threshold                         Contracts Subject to
(US$ thousands)         Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category                                     Nlethod              (USS million)
1. Works
a) highway works               More than 10,000            ICB                 6 contracts
US$158.5 million/I
More than 2,000 but          NCB                 34 contracts
Less than 10,000                            US$65.3 million/I
b) E&M facilities                                         ICB                  1 contract
________________________ _  _ US$5.7  million/i
2. Goods                             More than 200           ICB                  4 contracts
US$6.2 million/2
Less than 200            IS                 2 contracts
3. Services                          More than 100          QCBS            Construction supervision
(1 contract, US$1.5 million)/3
Less than 100           CQ           Training (total 29 contracts,
US$0.3 million)
Less than 100 (firmns) or         SS           Training (US$0.1 million)
less than 50 (individuals)    Qualifications   Training (US$0.1 million)
Total value of contracts                                                      US$237.2 million
subject to prior review:
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$237.2 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1/     Prior review for all civil works contracts costing US$2.0 million or more
2/      Prior review for all goods contracts costing US$200,000 or more
3/      Prior review for one construction supervision contract estimated to cost about US$ 1.5 million
- 57 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
1.     The proposed loan of US$100 million would be disbursed over a period of 5.75 years, up to the
closing date of March 31, 2008. The allocation of loan proceeds according to expenditure category is
outlined in Table C.
2.     Retroactive financing of up to US$ 2.5 million would be applied to expenditures made after March
1, 2002 for civil works under HNIP, the training under construction supervision and the purchase of
equipment.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount In USSmlllIon            Financing Percentage
Works
Civil Works                                57.0            43% of total expenditures
Building                                   1.0             30% of total expenditures
E & M facilities                           3.5             70% of total expenditures
Highway Network Improvement                   20.0            39% of total expenditures
Highway Safety Program                        0.5             30% of total expenditures
Construction supavision                         1.5             91% of expenditures
Equipment                                       6.0             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
Training                                        0.5             100% of total expenditures
Front-end fee                                   1.0
Unallocated                                     9.0
Total                                          100.0
Table C-1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank FY        Annually      Cumulative          %         Disbursement profile of transport
projects in China
FY 2003           7              7               7                      16
FY 2004           16             23              16                     22
FY 2005           30             53              30                     22
FY2006            18             71              18                     18
FY 2007           13             84              13                     22
FY 2008           16             100             16
-58 -



Table C-2: Flnancing Plan
(USS million)
(S1.00-Y8.3. January 2002 prices)
Government       Bank     Total     Bank
Province  Central                     Financing
(%)
A. Works:
1. Civil Work (LJH)              0       75.5     57.0     132.5       43
2. Building (LJH)               2.3                1.0      3.3        30
3. E & M Facilities              1.5               3.5      5.0        70
4. HNIP                         31.8               20.0    51.8        39
5. Highway safety               1.3                0.5      1.8        30
6. Environmental Protection     0.5                 0       0.5        0
Sub Total                   37.4      75.5     82.0    194.9
B. Construction Supervision:
1. LJH                          3.1                1.5      4.6        32
2. HNIRP                         0.7                0       0.7
3. Environmental Protection     0.1                 0       0.1
Sub Total                    3.9                1.5     5.3
C. Equipment                            0                 6.0      6.00       100
D. IST                                  0.2               0.5      0.7
Total (Base cost)           41.5      75.5     90.0    207.0
Contingencies:                         14.8      12.2     9.0      36.0
Land Acquisition                        6.8                0       6.8
Total (project)             63.1      87.7     99.0    249.8
Interest During Construction           17.9                0       17.9
Front-end Fee                                             1.0      1.00       100
Total (Financing)              81.0     87.7     100.0    268.7       37
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
3.     Reimbursement will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures for the following:
(i) civil works in contracts under US$2.0 million;
(ii) goods in contracts under US$200,000;
(iii) services provided by consulting firms in contracts under US$100,000;
(iv) services provided by individual consultants in contracts under US$50,000; and
(v) training.
-59-



4.     Documentation will be made available for the required audits as well as to the Bank supervision
mission, and will be retained by PMO for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for
the year in which the last disbursement was made. All other disbursements from the loan would be against
full documentation. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the
Loan and Borrower counterpart financing will be managed by PMO and IMCD in coordination and
consultation with Finance Bureau of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and MOF.
Special account:
5.     To facilitate disbursement under this project, one Special Account will be established and Finance
Bureau of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region will be directly responsible for the management,
monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the Special Account activities of the project. The Special
Account will be established in US dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or
whenever the Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent of the deposit, whichever comes first.
The authorized allocation of the Special Account is USD7.0 million. The initial deposit will be limited to
USD3,500,000 until the total amount disbursed and committed equals USD14,000,000.
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                          21
First Bank mission (identification)            07/01/2000                   07/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     11/01/2001                  02/24/2002
Negotiations                                   01/01/2002                   04/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/01/2002
Prepared by:
Inner Mongolia Communication Department
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                    Speciality
Supee Teravaninthom, EASTR        Task Team Leader
Yasuhiro Kawabata, EASTR          Highway Engineer
Chaohua Zhang, EASES              Social/Resettlement
Naoya Tsukamoto, EASES            Environment
Han-Kang Yen, EASTR               Econonic/Financial Analysis
Tony Shen, EACCF                  Financial Management
Bertrand Ah-Sue, EACCF            Procurement
Dawei Yang, EACCF                 Procurement
Nina Masako Eejima, LEGEA         Legal
Clifford Garstang, LEGEA          Legal
Simon Bradbury, LOAG3             Disbursement
Boping Gao, EASTR                 Highway Engineer
Xin Chen, EACCF                   Program Assistant
Maria Luisa Juico, EASTR          Program Assistant
Hernan Levy, Consultant           Institutional and Highway Maintenance Issues
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Project Implementation Plan *                                      January 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Project Procurement Capacity Assessment *                          October 2001
*   Project Financial Management Assessment *                          November 2001
C. Other
*   Feasibility Report (Laoyemiao-Jining-Hohhot Highway)               May 2000
*   Revised Feasibility Report (Laoyemiao-Jining-Hohhot Highway)       May 2001
*   Traffic volume at each interchange and road crossing (Laoyemiao-Jining)  October 2001
*   Implementation Organization Structure                              October 2001
*   Feasibility Study Report for Huade-Anye Road Improvement Program   September 2001
*   Feasibility Study Report for Zouzishan-Liangcheng Road Improvement Program  September 2001
*   Feasibility Study Report for Kebuer-Baiyinchagan Road Improvement Program  September 2001
*   Feasibility Study Report for Bailinmiao-Xilamuren Road Improvement Program  September 2001
*   Feasibility Study Report for Tumuetai-Shangdu Road Improvement Program  September 2001
*   Concept report on Road Safety Implementation Program               October 2001
*   Enviromnental Impact Assessment TOR for Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (LJH)*  October 2001
*   Environmental Assessment Sumnmary for LJH *                        October 2001
*   Resettlement Action Plan *                                         October 2001
*   Financial Manual                                                   January 2002
*   Strengthening and Reforning Highway Maintenance (a background note)  November 2001
*Including electronic files
- 62 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P071147       2002 Tuberculosis Control Project                   104.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    104.00      0.00      0.00
P058846       2002 National Railway Project                       160.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    160.00     33.33      0.00
P064729       2002 SUSTAINABLEFORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                 93.90     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     93.90      0.00      0.00
P056596       2001 PROJECT                                        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     99.00     27.57      0.00
P058645       2001 Shijiazhuang Uroan Transport                   200.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    193.00      2.67      0.00
P056516       2001 Jiangsi It Hwy                                  74.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     63.17       3.07     0.00
P056199       2001 WATER CONSERVATION                             100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     99.00       1.00     0.00
P051859       2001 Third Inland Waterways                         100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    100.00      2.53      0.00
P047345       2001 CH-LLAO RIVER BASN                             105.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    104.45      -1.05     0.00
P045915       2001 CHHUAI RiVER POLLUTION CONTROL                 100.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     71.22      7.70      0.00
P045910       2000 Urumqi Urban Transport                         150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    142.06      20.73     0.00
P056843       2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     200.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    172.34      35.01     0.00
P058844       2000 Guangxi Highway                                150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     126.40     13.07     0.00
P056424       2000 3rd Heran Prov Hwy                             320.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    308.14      40.41     0.00
P045264       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STCRA                            93.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     59.75      27.05      0.00
P049436       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                           200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     192.62     19.32      0.00
P064730       2000 CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRCNMENT                 210.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     192.44     81.61      0.00
P042109       2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project             349.00      0.00      0.00     25.00      0.00     351.47     82.14      0.00
P049665       1999 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                       90.00     30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     58.10       9.76      0.00
P050036       1999 ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                             200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     96.60      16.84      0.00
P051705       1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                           200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     141.64     65.14      0.00
P046829       1999 Fujiang II Highway                             100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      12.67     74.87      0.00
P041890       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     79.31      47.78      0.00
P042299       1999 Liaoning Urban Transport                        10.00     35.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     38.59      -3.58      0.00
P043933       1999 TEC COOP CREDiTi V                             150.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     100.47     31.34      5.50
P003653       1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENMRONMENT                     71.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.13     42.25      45.02      0.00
P036953       1999 ContaherTransport                               10.00     50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      43.55      9.58      0.00
P046051       1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                    20.00     50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      30.56     27.86      0.00
P046564       1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFCRM                          60.00    100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      99.39     32.90      0.00
P051856       1999 Gansu & Inner Mongola Poverty Reduction         27.40      5.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      22.44     21.47      0.00
P041268       1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                350.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     201.79     53.46      0.0
P057352       1999 Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                            16.00     30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      35.01     14.59      0.00
P058308       1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                         0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       2.60      2.76      0.00
P060270       1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                            0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       4.61      6.66      0.00
P063123       1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORM LN                          40.00     40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.29      1.26      1.26
P036121       1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                             0.00      0.00      0.00     35.00      0.00      27.05     12.42      0.00
P056216       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   100.00     50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     100.54     59.70      0.00
P051888       1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                80.00     20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      64.32     26.63      0.00
P003566       1998 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                             0.00     85.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      43.87     21.87      0.00
P035698       1998 CN-BASIC HEAL1H (HLTH8)                        300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     100.00    179.92    222.42     12.53
P037859       1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             0.00      0.00      0.00     22.00      0.00       6.44     21.40      0.00
P036414       1998 EGY CONSERVATIDN PRO                            72.00     20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      79.10     45.89      0.00
P051736       1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   250.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     165.82    164.82    152.70
P036949       1998 E. CHINANJIANGSU PWR                           250.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      67.91      0.42      0.00
P003591       1998 Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                 150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      80.91      8.45     76.29      0.13
P045788       1998 STATE FARMSCOMMERCI                            230.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      89.62     46.49      0.00
P046563       1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                              90.00     60.00      0.00      0.00      2.67      75.79     53.00      0.00
P003619       1998 TARiM BASIN II                                 123.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      86.14     66.98      0.00
P003614       1998 2nd Inland Waterways                           200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     130.81    124.67      0.00
P046952       1998 Guangzhou City Transport                       100.00    100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      95.63     -23.53    53.22
P003539       1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                           100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.31      53.25     32.23      0.00
P040185       1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCESDEV.               95.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      34.09     26.79      0.00
P049700       1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                        300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      63.33     10.77      0.00
WL-2
- 63 -



Difference between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID    1Y   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA          SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Fnfn Rev~d
P003606       ian8 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00      0.00      0.00     22.00      0.00      50.51     13.23      0.00
P04448.5      1997 SHANGKAi WAIGAOOIAO                            400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     242.53    128.33      37.07
P038988       1997 HIEILCNJGJIANG ADP                             120.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      28.72     25.00      0.00
P003654       1997 Net Hwy2/Hunan-Guengdong                       400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     135.54    125.88       0.00
P003650       1997 TUOK(ETUO POWERIINNER                          400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     102.50    149.88    221.66      14.31
P003643       1997 Xinjiang Hwy II                                300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      60.00     26.77     64.77       1.77
P003637       1997 COH-NATIONAL RURAL. WATER III                    0.00     70.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     21.12     18.67      17A40
P003635       1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORA PROJ                         10.00     20.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.70      2.83       0.00
P003590       1997 OHNBA MaiJNTAINS POVERTY RED3JCTION             30.00    150.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     72.45     75&30       0.00
P034081       1997 XLAOLANGDI MULTI. II                           430.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     83.63    120.85       0.00
P036405       1997 WANJIAZHAJ WATER TRA                           400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      75.00     53.69    115.36      53.69
P035693       1997 FUEL EFFICIENr IND.                              0.00      0.00      0.00     32.50       0.00      9.06     32.61       0.00
P036952       1997 ON-BASIC ED. IV                                  0.00     85.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.56      5.45       0.00
P003599       1996 CH-YUJNNAN ENVIR(NMENT PROJECT                 125.00     25.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     92.14     61.69      40.10
P003589       1996 ON-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                    0.00    100.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     17.16     25.16       0.00
P003638       1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                            60.00     20.00      0.00      0.00       9.40     19.89     28.67       0.00
P003602       1996 CH4HUBEI URBAN ENVIRON'MENT                    125.00     25.00      0.00      0.00      28.32     59.00     89.24      37.97
P003594       1996 GANSU HEXI CCRRIDOR                             60.00     90.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     92.19     59.83       0.00
P034618       1998 ON-LABOR MARKCET DEV.                           10.00     20.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      9.04     11.35       0.00
P003652       ian6 2nd Sheanxd Prov Hwy                           210.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     30.03     30.03       0.00
P003649       1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                             0.00    100.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.20     14.22       0.00
P003648       ian6 CH-SI4ANGHAI SEWERAGEII1                       250.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     91.13     50.26       0.00
P040513       1996 2nd Henan Proy Hwy                             210.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     72.77     70.77     -13.89
P003646       1996 CN-CHONGCONG IND PCa CT                        170.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     164.82      3.00    167.00       3.00
P003585       1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                            175.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     41.52     41.52       0.00
P003598       1995 CH-LLAONING ENVIRONMENT                        110.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     19.70     19.70       7.29
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS VII                                   400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     109.00     78.96    150.32       6.00
P003603       1995 CH-ENTERPRISE HOUJSING & SOC SEC REF           275.00     75.00      0.00      0.00      20.00    102.11     120586     40.29
P003600       1995 ON-TECHfNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                     200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       3.02     29.58     32S58       0.00
P003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                            100.00    110.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.63      5.20       1.44
P003647       1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                              0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.20      5.11       0.00
P036041       1995 FISCAL &TAX REF. &                              25.00     25.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.11      3.64       3.64
P003642       1995 ZHE.JIANG POWER DEWr                           400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     63.35     67.97       0.00
P003639       1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                            47.50    200.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     15.86     40.50      27.93
P036947       1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSICN                           270.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      95.00     14.42     1099A2     22.41
P003634       1995 ON-MATERNAL CHLD HEAL1IHLTH6)                    0.00     90.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.49      6.81       0.00
P003402       1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.63      2.08       0.00
P003586       1994 OH-SHANGHAI ENVIRCNMENT PROJECT                160.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     29.65     29.65      29.85
P003593       1994 SONGLiAD PLAIN ADP                               0.00    206.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.66      1A2        -1A46
P003595       1994 RED SOILS 11 AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            0.00    150.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      7.35      3.27      -0.93
P003644       1994 XLAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00    110.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.15      4.43       0.00
P003641       1994 YANGZHOU THEIEvAL POW                          350.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      11.50      3.66      15.18      0.69
P003404       1994 SIOHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00      0.00      0.00     10.00       0.00      0.02      0.78       0.00
P003626       1994 Fujian Pray Highway                            140.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      18.1 1    12.94     31.05      31.013
P003540       1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00    150.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.09      -1.67      0.00
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DGBV & CONSERVATION                258.00      0.00      0.00      10.00      0.00     56.81      56.81      0.00
P003632       1993 ON-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00     50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.67      7.62       7.30
P003627       1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUriON P                           325.00    185.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     41.24     42.06      38.75
P003623       1993 FINANCIAL SECTOR TA                              0.00     60.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.41      -3.08     -3.06
P003592       1993 REF. INSTL.& PREINV                              0.00     50.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.45      4.08       1.24
P003616       1993 TIANNIANGPING HYDRO                            300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      17.00     21.87      35.87      0.00
P003624       1992 ON-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTHS)                   0.00    129.60      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.44      -1.11     -1.15
Total:   14,069.60   2,972.20      0.00  156.50      902.66   6,970.82   4,372.35   627.79
- 64 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
2001               Sino-Forest                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   0.00    2.48   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.48    0.00   0.00
1998              WIT                          5.00    0.00   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri             2.02    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.02    0.00    0.00   0.00
1993              Yantai Cement               11.69    1.95    0.00   0.00   11.69    1.95    0.00   0.00
1998              Zhen Jing                    0.00    2.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00   0.00
1999/00           Barnk of Shanghai            0.00    3.84   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00   0.00
1996              Beijing Honmel               2.86    0.50    0.00   2.20    2.86    0.50    0.00   2.20
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC             0.00    3.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                19.76    0.00   0.00   32.73   19.76    0.00    0.00  32.73
1998              Chengdu Huarong              7.40    3.20    0.00   8.60    3.70    3.20    0.00   4.30
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                0.00    0.36    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00   0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles               0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt             0.00    0.01    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Ven             0.00    0.77    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00   0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                 0.00    2.40    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00   0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                  25.59    0.00    0.00  30.00   13.81    0.00    0.00   16.19
1995              Dupont Suzhou               14.02    4.15   0.00   15.60   14.02    4.15    0.00  15.60
1994              Dynamic Fund                 0.00    9.75   0.00    0.00    0.00    8.09    0.00   0.00
1999              Hansom                       0.00   16.10    0.00   0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00   0.00
1996              Jingyang                    32.50    0.00    0.00  69.23   32.50    0.00    0.00   69.23
1998              Leshan Scana                 6.10    1.35    0.00   0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00   0.00
2002              NCCB                         0.00   26.58    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                7.79    3.81    0.00  22.14    7.79    3.81    0.00   22.14
2001              New China Life               0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00   0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00.
1995              Newbridge Inv.               0.00    2.04    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.04    0.00   0.00
1997              Orient Finance              10.48    0.00    0.00  13.10   10.48    0.00    0.00   13.10
1997/00           PTP Holdings                 0.00    0.03    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00   0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                   11.72    0.00    0.00  23.29   11.72    0.00    0.00   23.29
1996              Pacific Ports                0.00    2.54    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00
2001               Peak Pacific                0.00    0.00   17.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.53    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                1.13    0.00    0.00   1.13    1.13    0.00    0.00    1.13
2000              SSIF                         0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
1998              Shanghai Krupp              30.00    0.00    0.00  68.80   13.66    0.00    0.00   31.34
1999              Shanxi                      19.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   16.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                3.76    0.99    0.00   0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      235.82  124.55   17.00  291.82  189.85  80,38    5.53  231.25
- 65 -



Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001              AACI                            0.00      0.00     2.00     0.00
2002              Advantage                       0.00      0.00     0.25     0.00
2002              BOS RI 2                        0.00      0.00    24.70     0.00
2000              CIG Zhapu                       6.00      5.00     0.00      0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                      15.00     5.00     0.00     15.00
2001              Daning Coal                     13.00     0.00     2.00     15.00
2002              Darong                          10.00     0.00     1.50      8.00
2002              Huarong AMC                     50.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              Maanshan Carbon                 9.00      0.00     2.00      5.00
2000              Meijing                          9.00     0.00     0.00      7.30
2001              Minsheng                        0.00     23.50     0.00      0.00
2002              Narada Battery                  6.60      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                 0.00      0.00     0.00      1.50
2000              Wan Jie Hospital                15.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Comnmitnent:    133.60     33.50    32.45    51.80
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Asia &   middle-
China    Padfic   Income      iOvelopmentdlamofnd
2000
Pooulation. mid-year (inltions)                  11262.5    1.653    2046                 Life expectancy
GNI Cer caoita (Alas method. USS)                   640      1.060    1.140
GNI (Atlas method, USS bilbns)                   1,061.2     1.964    2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population f%J                                       1.0      1.1       1.0                                    G
Laborforce (X)                                       1.2      1.4       1.3     GNI                            Gross
per                           prirnary
Most recent estmate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capta                      enrolment
Poverty (f of populaton below natinal Poverty line)   5
Urban population ( of total population)              36        35       42
itfeexPectancv at birth i(Years)                     70        69       69
Infant nmortalitv (per t,000 live births)            30        35       32
Child malnutbion (6 of children under 5)              9        13       11           Access to knproved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of Population)  75       75       80
litteracy (6 ofpopulation aes 15+)                   16        14       15
Grossprlmarvenroltment (3 ofschodi-aeePooulatton)   123       119      114
Male                                              123       121      116              Lower-mdde-lncome group
Female                                            123       121      114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Ecanemic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                        216.2    363.0    997.5    1,076.9
Gross domestic investmenUGDP               35.2     34.7     37.2      37.3                    Trade
Exports of aoods and servIces/GDP           7.6     17.5     22.0      25.9
Gross domestc savincslGDP                  34.9     37.9     40.1      39.9
Gross natonal savinasvGDP                  34.9     38.3     38.7      39.2
Current account balance/GDP                -0.4      3.8       1.6      1.9     Domesfic                   Investnent
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      0.7      0.6       0.7     sav+gs
Total debt/GDP                                      15.2      15.5     13.9
Total debt servioeexDorts                  8.0      9.9       9.0      7.4
Present value of debUtGDP                                     113.5
Prasent value of debtlexDorts                                58.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                               10.1     10.3      7.1       7.9      7.4              China
GDP per capita                     8.5      9.2      6.1       7.2      6.7         -    Lwar -nidde-/nromne group
Exports otg oods and servAs       11.0     16.5     13.9     32.0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     GrowthoflnvstmentandGDP(%)
(X of GDP)
Aarculture                                 30.1     27.0      17.6     159
Industrv                                   48.5    41.6      49.4      50.9     '
ManufacturIna                            40.5     32.9      33.6     34.5      -
Services                                   21.4     31.3     32.9      33.2
Private consumption                        50.5     49.9     47.4      47.0            9  s9 o    7    Be   es   oo
General govemment oonsumpton               14.6     12.1     12.5      13.1
Imports of ooods and services               7.9     14.3     19.1      23.2             -       I       G
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Grwth of sxports and Imports (%)
(average annua growt4h)
Agriculture                                 5.9      4.1       28       2.4     o 
Industry                                   11.1     13.7      8.1       9.6    30 .
Manufacturing                             11.1    13.4       8.3       9.7    20
Services                                   13.5      9.0      7.S       7.8    !s
Prtvate consumption                         9.4      8.8      2.6       6.0
General goverrment oonsumpton               9.8      9.4       84      12.0    -10     r5   go   97    Be   99    00
GrossdomesticInvestment                    10.8     11.6       3.2      7.9            -  Exr   ts    -impe rs
Imports of goods and services               9.1     16.1      22.3     24.8
Note: 2000 data are prelirmnary estmatas.
'The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv tin bold) comoared wih Its Income-oroup averae. If data are missin. the diamond vill
be Inoomplte.
- 67 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
19t0    1990      1999     2000      Inflation(%)
Ns cham.7)                                                                     30;
Consumer prices                             6.0     3.1      -1.4      0.4     20
lmpldt GDP deflator                         5.6     5.5      -2.2      0.9
10.
Govenment flnance                                                                                                  1
( of GDP, indLudes current grants)
Current revenue                            25.7     19.7     15.0      15.3   -10
Current budaet balance                       ..     3.0       1.3      0.6              -GDP deflator    e  CPI
OveraDl surolus/defidt                      -1.5    -0.8     -4.0      -3.6
TRADE
(USSn'ilons)                              1       1                  2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      18.270   6Z091    194,931  249,210    3soDO
Food                                    2,985    6,609    10,458   12,282
Fuel                                     4,280   5.237     4,659    7,851       ooo 0
Manufactures                             9,005  46,205   174.990  223,752
Total imports (df)                       20.017   53.345   165.699  225.097                                  _    _
Food                                     2,927   3.335     3,619    4,758       ,
Fuel and energv                           203    1.272     8,912   26,037
Capital goods                            5,119  16.845    69,469   91.934        o               R    O   N *
94  or,  or,  97  99   99   00
Export price Index (1995=100)                25      78        69       67
lIrportpriceindex(1995=100)                  22      80        71       75                *EPor5       *Impon3t
Temis of trade (1995=100)                   116      97        98       90
BALANCEof PAYMENTS
(USS m/llions)                             1980    1999      1999     2000     Currant account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            20,167   67,971  218.496   279.561    s
Imports of goods and services            20,859   55,537   189,799  250.688    4
Resource balance                           -692   12.433   28.697    28,873
Net inoome                                 -100    1.055  -17.973   -14,666    3*
Net current transfers                        ,.     274     4,943     6,311    2f.*
Currant account balance                    -792   13.762    15,668   20.519    t     f.    flf         -    -fl
FInandng Items (net)                         ..   -7,673   -7.163    -9,971    o
Changes In net reserves                      ..   -6.089    -8,505  -10.548        94   9f   Be   97   BB   90   r9
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (US$ mllins)          ..   16,963  161.404   171,753
ConversIon rate (DEC, locallUSS)            2.1     5.1       8.2       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999      2000
(US$ milions)                                                                   ComposItton of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandIng and disbursed         ..   55.301   154,223  149,800
IBRD                                       ..   2,865    10,400    11,118
IDA                                         .   3.016     8,907     8,771                             B: 8,771
Total debt service                        1.652    7,057    20.655   21.728                                 D 2,55E
IBRD                                        ,     416     1.142     1,291                            A
IDA                                                19       117      131
Comnposilon of net resource flows                                                                             E:28.510
Official grants                             7     143       201      147
Official creditors                               1,727     1,706    1.928
Private creditors                                   ..    -1,854    1.985
Foreign direct nvestment                   57    3,487   41.015    42,096
Portolbo ecuitv                             0       0      1,806    7,814           . ,s7
World Bank roram
Coammnitments                              ..     953     2,097     1,536    A - 16PD                   E - Bilaterai
Disbursenients                              ,    1,098    1,756     1,907     B - IDA  D- Other mul81atral  F - Prate
Prncina repayments                         ..     216       558      644      C - IMF                   G- Short-term
Netfiows                                    ..    882      1.198    1,263
Interest payments                          ,,     219       701      778
Net transfers                              .,     663       497      485
DevelopmentEconorrucs                                                                                           91i/01
-68 -



Additional Annex 11
Summary of Financial Management Assessment
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
Executive Summary and Conclusion
1.        The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial
management system of the proposed Inner Mongolia Highway Project (the Project). The assessment,
based on guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has
concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in
BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the project will have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on
the status of the project in the reporting format agreed with the project and as required by the Bank.
2.        The assessment also concluded that there are no outstanding audits or audit issues exist
with implementing agency involved in the proposed project. The task team however will continue to be
attentive to financial management matters and audit covenants during project implementation. The
financial Management Assessment Report is available in the project files and is summarized below.
Country Issues
3.        To date, no CFAA has been performed for China, but dialogue with the Government of
China in respect of the CFAA exercise has been initiated and is currently underway and hopefully will
be carried out in the near future. Though no CFAA was conducted in FY01 for China, the Bank has
been relying on a similar exercise carried out by the Asian Development Bank in year 2000.
4.        However, based on observations of developments in the areas of public expenditures,
accounting and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we noted that
substantial achievement in the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is
expected in the next few years. As the economic reform program unfolds, the Government of China
has come to realize the importance of establishing and maintaining an efficient and effective market
mechanism to ensure transparency and accountability, and to minimize potential fraud or corruption.
5.        Due to the rather unique arrangement with the Government of China, funding (in particular
the Bank loan) of Bank projects is controlled and monitored by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and its
extension, i.e., finance bureaus at provincial, municipal/prefecture and county levels. However, project
activities are usually carried out by implementing agencies in a specific industry or sector. This
arrangement usually requires closer coordination on the project, because the multilevel management of
the funding and implementation mechanism sometimes works to the detriment of smooth project
implementation.
Strengths and Weaknesses
6.        Strengths. The proposed project is the second highway project to be implemented in the
region (the first one is the Tri-provincial Highway Project). Project personnel identified to assume
financial or accounting positions have adequate relevant work experience and educational backgrounds.
The head of the financial department of the Project Management Office (PMO) of the proposed project
- 69 -



also participated in the financial management of the first highway project, and therefore experience
gained therefrom will benefit the proposed project.
7.        FBIMAR is also expected to play a major role in the financial aspects of the project,
including financing arrangement, procurement, and financial management. FBIMAR has managed
financial aspects of several Bank projects, including the Tri-provincial Highway Project, and records
indicate that FBIMAR has been performing satisfactory work in the areas of withdrawal applications
and financial management assistance.
8.        Weaknesses. The following significant weakness and its resolution have been identified:
Significant weakness                    Resolution
Experience from the first highway project  A training program, including an overseas study
indicates that accounting treatment of some  tour, has been proposed by the project and
project activities and cash management need  found by the task team to be acceptable.
further strengthening and improvement.  Further assistance from FBIMAR is critical in
terms of withdrawal application procedures.
The Bank task team will provide training in
financial management (including disbursement
procedures) as and when needed.
Implementing Entity
9.        Project leadinggroup (PLG)  A project leading group chaired by Vice-Chairman of
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and including representatives from line departments of the Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region government, such as Development and Planning Commission, State
Land Resources Administration and Inner Mongolia Communication Department, has been formed to
provide overall guidance and coordination and monitor project implementation.
10.       Project Management Office  Project Management Office (PMO), directly under IMCD
and headed by Deputy Director of IMCD has been established. PMO will assume overall
implementation and coordination responsibility and directly implement every component of the project.
A financial division has been set up under the PMO with the following positions: financial manager,
project accountant, cashier, basic infrastructure accountant, budgeting, payment accountant and
intemal audit.
11.      In addition, the Foreign Fund Division of FBIMAR will play a major role in project
implementation, including overall monitoring, financing arrangements, and financial management.
FBIMAR will also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling the special account to be
established for the project, and reviewing, verifying and approving withdrawal applications prepared
by the project before submitting them to the Bank for disbursement processing. The division has
extensive experience with Bank projects and is familiar with Bank disbursement procedures.
Consequently, for smooth and successful project implementation, close cooperation and coordination
between FBIMAR and PMO is critical.
Funds Flow
12.       One special account for the project will be set up at and managed directly by FBIMAR
and on-lending agreements will be signed between MOF and FBIMAR, between FBLMAR and IMCD.
- 70 -



The Bank funds will flow from the Bank to the project special account, and then to PMO for
reimbursement of expenditures incurred for the project and advanced by the PMO, or directly to
contractors or suppliers. The funds flow is illustrated in the following diagram.
World Bak --I Special account managed          M
W  *s *  +~~~~b FBIMAR             _   Cxntractr
13.       Counterpart funds will flow from MOC and IMCD directly to the project.
Staffing
14.       Adequate project accounting staff with educational backgrounds and work experience
commensurate with the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful
implementation of project financial management. Based on discussions, observation and review of
educational background and work experience of the staff identified for financial and accounting
positions, the task team notes that adequate and qualified staff have been recruited for the project and
are considered appropriate for the positions they are to assume. The project financial manager
participated in financial and accounting work for the Tri-provincial Highway project and experience
gained therefrom will benefit the proposed project.
15.       However, most of the financial and accounting staff identified and recruited for the project
have no experience with Bank-financed projects. A well-focused training program to strengthen project
staff's understanding and knowledge of Bank policies and procedures should be provided by PMO and
FBIMAR prior to project effectiveness.
16.       In addition, in order to strengthen financial management capacity, standardize accounting
procedures, achieve consistent quality of accounting work, and provide easy reference to accounting
treatment, the task team has suggested that a project financial management rnanual be prepared. The
manual will provide detailed guidelines on financial management, intemal controls, accounting
procedures, fund and asset management, and withdrawal application procedures. PMO has already
prepared and submitted to the Bank a draft manual, which the task team found satisfactory and
appropriate to the project. A finalized copy will be available to all relevant project staff before project
effectiveness.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
17.       The project will adopt accrual accounting and double-entry bookkeeping. The
administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the following
regulations/circulars issued by MOF:
a. Circular No. 127, Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for
Projects Financed by the World Bank, issued in 1993, as a basis for bookkeeping and
preparing project financial statements and management reports (in line with other
Bank-financed projects in China).
b. Circular No. 12, Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications, issued in
December 1996, which includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications and retaining supporting documentation.
c. Circular No. 13, Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects, issued in January
2000, which provides in-depth instructions on the accounting treatment of project activities and
covers the following:
- 71 -



*   Chart of account
*   Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
*   Standard set of project financial statements
*   Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements.
18.       The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to
between the Bank and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes
the following:
*   Both Circulars No. 127 and No. 13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for
State-owned, Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taling into consideration the
unique characteristics of Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of
International Accounting Standards and provides detailed guidelines to accounting for
activities of an infrastructure project.
* PMO will manage, monitor, and maintain project accounting records, and will retain original
supporting documents for project activities. In addition, PMO will prepare project financial
statements and submit them to the Bank for review and comment on a regular basis.
Internal Audit
19.       An internal department under IMCD will assume the internal audit function for the project.
The task team will evaluate work performed by such internal auditors and determine the degree of
reliance on their work in respect of project implementation and Bank supervision missions.
External Audit
20.       The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be
audited in accordance with the Governnent Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China
(1997 edition). The Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Audit Bureau (IMARAB) has been identified
as auditor for the project. Annual audit reports will be issued in the name of IMARAB and subject to
review by the China National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued
by CNAO or provincial or regional audit bureaus for which CNAO is ultimately responsible.
21.       Audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6
months of the end of each calendar year, with a separate opinion on statements of expenditures and the
special account.
Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
22.       The fornat and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard
project reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed
with the project. The project financial statements will be submitted as part of the Financial Monitoring
Report (FMR) to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 of the
subsequent year) and include the following four statements:
- Balance Sheet
- Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component
- Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
- Statement of Special Account
- 72 -



Information Systems
23.       A computerized financial management system has been in place in the PMO, and a widely
accepted accounting software, Yongyou, will be used to keep track of project activities. Yongyou has
been a mature financial software and widely used in the business community in China, and is
considered appropriate for the financial and accounting work of the project. However, the task team
will closely monitor accounting work, particularly at the initial implementation stage, to ensure proper
setup and recording.
Impact of Procurement Arrangements
24.       The impact of procurement arrangements of the project on financial management is
considered to be minimal. The threshold set for procurement post-review will be consistent with that set
for SOEs for disbursement purposes.
Action plan
25.       The following represents a time-bound action plan required of the project that is not
considered serious enough to withhold project preparation:
Action                     Responsible person         Completion Date
1. Project financial management FBsMAR, PMO          Before effectiveness
training provided to relevant
project staff _
2. Financial management    PMO                        Before effectiveness
manual finalized and issued
Financial Covenants
26.       There is no specific financial covenant for the project other than the standard ones, e.g.
maintaining project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices, audit requirement and
SOE, as described in the legal document.
Supervision Plan
27.       More frequent supervision missions (such as every six months) are recommended at the
initial implementation stage to ensure proper accounting setup and operations and to assess the needs of
further assistance or training. From project mid-point on, annual supervision missions for financial
management aspects may be sufficient. In addition, to maximize efficiency and effectiveness of
supervision missions, procurement and FM/SOE/disbursement reviews should be carried out
simultaneously.
- 73-



Additional Annex 12
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
A. Background
1.     The Environmental Assessment (EA) for this project was carTied out by Xi'an Highway University
(XHU). The draft EA documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with Inner Mongolia
Communications Department (IMCD) during the preappraisal mission in September 2001. The final draft
Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and EA Summary
were submitted to the Bank in January 2002.
2.     The local people in the project area were intensively consulted during the EA work, and their
opinions are reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures.
3.     The national policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were satisfied during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as was the Bank's OP 4.01
on Environmental Assessment. The following major laws and regulations applied to the EA of Inner
Mongolia Highway Project:
* Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC)
* Water Pollution Control Law of PRC
* Water and Soil Conservation Law of PRC
* Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC
* Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC
* Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC
*   Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations.
B. Brief Project Description
4.     The proposed Inner Mongolia Highway project includes two physical components: the construction
of the LJH, which is a key section of the NTHS, and the Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP),
which will improve five rural road sections of a total length of about 350 km.
5.     The LJH comprises about 90 km of high-grade highway from Jining to Laoyemiao on the border of
Hebei province. This highway is part of the second east-west artery of the National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) connecting North China, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Gansu, Qinghai, and Tibet, all of which are
poor provinces. The proposed highway will form part of the most important east-west corridor of Inner
Mongolia, linking the major industrial, administrative, and hub cities of Baotou, Hohhot, and Jining. The
opening of this stretch of NTHS will help accelerate economic growth in Inner Mongolia by integrating its
regional market into the national economy.
C. Baseline Environmental Description
6.     Geography and Meteorological Conditions. The projected alignment is situated on the south edge
of the Inner Mongolian Plateau. The section between Laoyemiao to Yushuwang is in a hilly loess area with
severe wind erosion. The section between Yushuwang to Taigou is typical lava bench land. Soil erosion is
- 74 -



caused by both wind and hydraulic erosion. Wind erosion occurs everywhere, but especially in the dry
grasslands from March to May. Hydraulic erosion occurs mainly in hilly loess areas from July to
September when it rains often. The rivers at the highway alignment crossings are all seasonal, with no
water in dry seasons, but floods occur frequently in rainy seasons. The major rivers in the study area are
the Bawang, the Toutao, the Niuming, and the Yinzi rivers.
7.     The project area is in a continental temperate monsoon zone with plentiful sunshine. It is dry and
windy and rarely rains. The mean annual precipitation is 365 mm-404 mm, which falls mainly July through
September. The average evaporation, however, is more than 1,400 mmn, and sandstorms occur frequently in
spring. The average wind speed is 3.4-3.6 m/s. There are great temperature differences in the various
seasons. The average annual temperature is 3.6-4.8, but in winter the temperature can be as low as -33.8-,
and in summer as high as 35.7.
8.     Socioeconomic Situation. The proposed highway will have impacts on Xinghe County, Jining
City, Chaharyouyiqian County, and Zhouzi County, as well as the urban areas of Hohhot and Baotou. The
total project area is 19,000 kmi, and the affected population is 4 million. The population density is 190
persons/krn2, much higher than the average in Inner Mongolia. Hohhot, the capital and the center of
politics, economy, and culture of Inner Mongolia, also has developed into the center of industry and trade.
The major industries are textiles, electronics, machinery, food processing, petrochemicals, building
materials, metallurgy, and wool. Jining is one of the largest fur markets and fur processing bases in the
country. In the project area, 3 percent of the population is ethnic minority, mainly Hui and Manchurian.
9.     Ecological Environment. The project area lies mainly in grasslands and in agricultural land where
grain and vegetable production is dominant. The natural pastures have deteriorated because of scarce
rainfall, strong winds and plenty of sand, and human activities. The alignment of the proposed highway
runs parallel to an existing Class II highway. This area has been exposed to human activities for many
decades. The EA has ensured that there are no critical natural habitats, no enviromnentally protected areas,
and no rare flora or fauna in the project area. No big wild animals are observed in the project area.
10.   Noise and Air Quality. The noise level is generally low near the proposed alignment. In residential
areas, a Class IV standard is satisfied, and at the only school along the alignment, a Class 1 standard is
satisfied. Air quality is good and meets the standards.
11.    Water Quality The existing water quality along the route is fairly good and meets the water
quality standards of Class m claimed by Inner Mongolia Environmental Protection Bureau. The water
quality of the Yinzi River satisfies even Class I standard.
12.    Soil Erosion. There are varieties of soil erosion, among which are wind erosion and hydraulic
erosion. Wind erosion occurs everywhere, but especially in dry grasslands from March to May. Hydraulic
erosion occurs mainly in hilly loess areas from July to September, the rainy season. Ablation of exposed
rocks occurs because of sunshine and temperature difference.
13.    Cultural Relics. According to a survey by experts at Inner Mongolia Archeological Institute, the
EIA states that there are no important cultural relics along the project alignment.
- 75-



D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
Main Highway Component
Design Phase
14.    Alternatives Analysis. During project preparation, three alternatives were studied: (i) upgrading
the existing highway to Class l; (ii) making a new expressway in one construction stage; and (iii) making a
new expressway in two construction stages. The latter two alternatives have no distinct difference in terms
of enviromnental impact, but the total cost of the third alternative would be higher. The first alternative,
with the lowest cost, will not provide sufficient transportation capacity and it needs more resettlement and
will cause more environment impacts to residential areas because of traffic concentration. Accordingly the
second alternative, new expressway, was recommended.
15.    Analysis of the no-project option indicates that although highway construction has some adverse
impact on the acoustic environment and air quality, the highway also brings benefits: accelerating economic
growth by promoting the integration of the regional market with the national economy, and relieving
congestion on the existing highway, thus improving the environment along the existing highways by
diverting its rapidly increasing transport.
16.    Social Disruption. In order to prevent the expressway from causing social disruption, 70
passageways, eight large bridges, and 26 middle-size or small bridges will be constructed along the 90-km
alignment.
17.    Noise. Construction of three green belts totaling 5,000 m in the project area is included in the
design. The design calls for the green belts to be developed at environmentally sensitive spots where the
alignment is near residential areas.
18.    Borrow Pits. The places to make borrow pits will be carefully chosen so that construction works
do not cause a soil erosion problem.
Construction Phase
19.    Noise. Heavy mnachinery operation and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts on
the acoustic environment in the populated project areas. Strict regulations on the schedule of construction
works will be implemented to minimnize such adverse impacts. Heavy machinery operation will be
prohibited between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
20.    Air Pollution. Dust during the construction works was identified as a major environmental impact.
Asphalt-mixing plants will be located at least 300 m from residential areas on the leeward side of the
alignment. Material sites and mixing sites will be situated at least 100 m from residences. Construction
sites and mixing sites will be sprayed regularly with water.
21.    Water Pollution. Wastewater from construction sites and camps will be discharged into the river
after being adequately treated. Domestic solid wastes from construction sites and camps will be regularly
collected and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Waste soil and stones in construction sites will be
removed to the designated waste yards where sedimentation facilities will be installed.
- 76 -



22.    Vegetation and Soil Erosion. Construction will occupy 500 ha of land. As much efforts will be
made as possible to make sure that dry land or wasteland will be acquired instead of forests or cultivated
land. After the completion of construction, temporarily occupied lands and temporary construction roads
will be leveled and planted with trees and grasses to minimize soil erosion. The final design of the
alignment was optimized so as to reduce the number of tree-cutting from initially estimated 136,000 to
68,000. In addition, about 260,000 trees are planned to be planted along the highway.
23.    Cultural Relics. No cultural relics are expected to be found, but if any cultural relics are found
during construction, excavation will be stopped irmmediately, and the local cultural authority will be
informed of the discovery. Construction will not resume until the cultural relics have been identified by the
authorized institution and necessary preservation measures have been taken.
Operation Phase
24.    Noise. In order to reduce noise impacts at environmentally sensitive spots, three green belts
totaling 5,000 m2in area will be planted. No new residential houses will be allowed to be built within 100 m
of the highway, and no schools or hospitals will be built within 150 n.
25.    Water Pollution. Wastewater from service centers or toll stations will be discharged into the river
after being adequately treated. Domestic solid wastes from there will be canned and regularly collected.
26.    Vegetation and Soil Erosion. Land for temporary use will be cleaned up after construction. After
cleaning, grass seeds will be sown both on temporarily used land and at borrow pits. These sites will be
covered by straw so that vegetation can recover easily and quickly.
Highway Network Improvement Program (HINIP)
27.    There is no new construction, nor will land acquisition be included in the program. There appears
to be no ecologically protected area in the program areas. The ecological and cultural environments were
surveyed and no important natural habitat or cultural property was found. The existing air and acoustic
environments were monitored, and potential impacts were projected. Because construction works are
limited to the rehabilitation of existing roads, little environmental impact is expected from the program.
28.    As a result of environmental screening, major potential environmental impacts are identified as
noise and dust pollution during the construction. In order to minimize the environmental impacts of the
project, a variety of mitigation measures have been integrated into the EAP, including noise and air
pollution protection, soil and vegetation protection, mitigation measures for borrow pits, construction
camps.
E. Environmental Monitoring
29.    During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to
verifIy the project's actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an
early stage, and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. Environmental monitoring will be
conducted by the Environmental Protection Office of Inner Mongolia Communication Departnent at the
construction stage. At the operational stage, monitoring will be entrusted to local environmental monitoring
centers. The results of monitoring will be reported quarterly to the Bank and local environment authorities.
The environmental monitoring plans are provided in Table 2 to this annex.
- 77 -



F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
30.   IMCD will set up an Environmental Protection Office (EPO) at its headquarters and an
Environmental Protection Group (EPG) for the Laoyemiao-Jining sections at Jining. Each office will have
four staff members. The EPO and EPG are responsible for environmental supervision of the construction
activities, implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring, and coordination
and management of the environmental protection during construction and operation phases.
31.    To enhance environmental protection knowledge and skills, key enviromnental protection staff will
receive intensive training. The training program includes lectures by experts, site visits to similar projects,
and periodic national or international training. A taining budget of US$ 52,000 has been allocated,
including US$ 33,000 for three person-months of overseas training.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
32.    Public Consultation and Feedback A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to
the World Bank's guidelines: shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the
EA were finalized (March and July 1999 respectively); and after the draft EA report was prepared (August
2001 and January 2002, respectively). The consultation included meetings with local people at
project-affected towns and surveys through questionnaires. Project-affected individuals, organizations of
concemed villagers, and village committees were intensively consulted. Besides resettlement-related issues,
the public expressed concems about social disruption from the expressway and environmental protection
during construction and requested that adequate mitigation measures be taken. The public's feedback is
reflected in the engineering designs and the EAP, in particular the number of underpasses were increased.
33.   Information Disclosure. The final draft EIA, EAP, EA Summary, and EEE & EAP were
submitted to the Bank in January 2002. The final EA reports was disclosed locally in January 2002 with
an advertisement in the local newspaper and was sent to the World Bank's InfoShop for disclosure at the
same time.
- 78 -



Table 1: Summary of Potential Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Potential Impacts      Mitigation measures
Design Phase        _
Ecological environment  Careful consideration was given to the design so that: (a) major sensitive locations will
be avoided; (b) farmland and arable land will be acquired as little as possible; and
(c) borrow pits and material sites will be designed to avoid farmland, forest land,
and riverbanks.
Soil erosion           The design of subgrade and highway landscapes will satisfy anti-flood
requirements.
Social disruption      70 passageways, 8 large bridges ,and 26 middle-size or small bridges will be
constructed along the 90-km alignment.
Others                 Environmental protection designs at the construction phase will be completed
simultaneously with construction design.
Construction Phase
Noise                  No high-level noise-producing machinery will be allowed to operate from 10:00 pm
to 6:00 am at sensitive places such as Dajing and Bashixiang villages.
Air pollution           * To prevent fugitive dust at construction sites, water will be sprayed at
constructi on and mixing sites.
* Materials sites and mixing sites will be 100 m and 300 m, respectively, from
env ironmentally sensitive points. No asphalt mixers will be placed in the
vicinity of Dajing and Bashixiang villages. Asphalt mixing will be conducted
in enclosed equipment to comply with emission standards.
* No bulk haulage will be allowed for cement and lime and they will be muffled.
No spills of sand, earth, or other materials will be allowed during hauling.
Water pollution        Septic tanks will be provided for sewage at construction camps. Domestic garbage
will be canned and carried away regularly or treated properly in garbage pits (one
for each bit section). Waste and garbage will be collected regularly.
Soil erosion           In rainy seasons, mud settlement tanks and textiles will be provided for
embankments at filling and mixing sites. No blasting will be allowed for
excavating on earthy hillsides.
Ecological environment  As few trees as possible will be cut. Contractors will be required to protect and
rehabilitate vegetation. Good farmland will not be used for temporary land use.
Farmland used for temporary purposes will be restored for rehabilitation. Borrow
sites will be cleared up for rehabilitation on completion of the project.
Operadion Phase
Noise                 In order to reduce noise impacts at environmentally sensitive spots, three green
belts totaling 5,000 m' will be constructed. No new residences will be built within
100 m of the highway, and no schools nor hospitals within 150 m. Environmental
monitoring will be conducted at villages, and when noise exceeds relevant
standards, mitigation measures will be identified.
Water pollution        Sewage from service centers, toll stations, and administrative sections will be
treated by using septic tanks. Garbage from service centers, toll stations, and
administrative sections will be canned and carried away regularly.
Ecological environment  Land for temporary use and borrow pits will be cleared by placing straw squares for
I vegetation restoration.
- 79-



Table 2: Summary of Environmental Monitoring Plans
Stage         Monitoring Site     Monitoring Items            Monitoring Frequency
Noise         Construction  Gaomiaozi                                       Once a month for I day, 2-3
Phase        (K285+450)                                      times a day
Dajing Vilage
(K333+300)          Noise
Operation     Gaomiaozi                                       Twice a year for 1-2 days
Phase         Dajing Vilage
Dagong School
Erixiaxiang
Bajing Village
Bayintala township
Yiwutang
Bashixiang Village
Air Quality   Construction  Gaomiaozi           TSP, Dust                   TSP: fbur times a year, 2-3
Phase         (K285+450)                                      days in succession each time.
Dajing Vilage
(K333+300)                                      Dust: once a month or
depends
Operation                         TSP, N02                    Once a year, 3 days in
Phase                                                         succession, 4 samplings a
day
Surface       Construction  Yinzi river         pH, SS, COD, Oil            Twice a year
Water         Phase         (K279+880)                                      Background levels will be
monitored one month before
the cormmencement of
construction.
Operation                                                     Two times a year
Phase
Ecological    Construction  Construction        Vegetation, soil erosion,   Ad hoc
and others    Phase         sections, borrow    implementation of EAP etc.,
pits, construction
camps, etc.
Table 3: Independent Implementation Costs for EAP*
Mitigation Measures                                   RMB 10,000
(1) Design of EP                                                                            40
(2) Water spray for preventing TSP (dust)                                                  140
(3) Waste water treatment                                                                   31
(3) Garbage treatment at construction campus                                                 8
(4) Safety signals and warning lights                                                       10
(5) Clearing up of temporary land                                                          150
(6) Tree plantation for reducing noise                                                       5
(7) Garbage treatment at administrative section and toll station                             6
(8) Environmental monitoring                                                                35
(9) Maintenance of EP facilities                                                            40
Total                                                   465
*The table shows independent implementation costs, which are not included in the costs for construction civil works or
supervisions in general.
- 80 -



Additional Annex I3:
Summary of the Resetr.i    ,   \ A:R
CHINA: Inner Mongolia
Project Background
1. The project will construct about 90 km of expressway along with 34 bridges of difierent sizes, 145
culverts, 16 overpasses, a connecting road of 5.22 km, and service areas. The project also has identified
five sections of township-to-county roads and county-to-county roads of a total lengt' of 336 km for
rehabilitation in Ulanchabu Prefecture and Baotou Municipality. Resettlement planning was conducted on
the basis of the preliminary technical design completed in April 2001, including a census of the affected
population, an inventory of affected assets, a socioeconomic survey, a social assessment, and consultations
with the affected population. Much consideration has been devoted tc mEiniizing adverse impacts,
particularly in the finalization of the alignment.
Census, Inventory and Social Assessment
2. From May to July 2001, Inner Mongolia Highway Department set up a team. tc start the field work.
The Land Resources Administration Department and local governments also participated in the census and
inventory. The populations and various categories of impacts were identified anc recorded in tabular
format for each affected household and village. Village leaders, heads of households, and the investigation
team verified and signed off on them.
3. The project office conducted a socioeconomic survey in the project areas to analyze the project
impacts, understand the socioeconomic background in the project areas as the basis for resettlement
planning, and consult the affected people for their feedback on the resettiement planning. The National
Resettlement Research Center based in Nanjing also conducted a sociai assessment in the project areas.
The assessment used focus-group discussions and key informant interviews, focusing partLicularly on ethnic
minority groups and feedback from the affected groups.
Project Area Background
4. The project lies in the east of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Agriculture is the dominant
economic activity. The average yield is low, and land holding per capita is abouL five mu per capita, five
times the national average. In the past two decades, Inner Mongolia's non-farm sector experienced last
development and farmers' non-farn income is relatively high. Almost all interviewed households have at
least one laborer engaged in non-farm employment.
5. Iner Mongolia is a Mongolian autonomous region. Unlike the Mongolian population in the grassland
areas who are mainly herdsmen, the Mongolian people in the project areas are engaged mainly in
agriculture and are distinctly different in their customs and productive activities. Ailer centuries of
coexistence in the agriculture area, the Mongolian population is much integrated into the dominant M-an
culture.
Project Impacts
6. This project will affect 23 villages in seven townships in three counties and banner. The project will
require land acquisition and the demolition of houses. The project will recuire 7,866 mu of land, including
- 81 -



3,871 mu of cultivated land. The project also will require the demolition of 2,396 m of houses, including
962 m' of brick-tile houses, 589 m' of earth-timber houses, and 845 m' of simple structures. About 12,693
people in 3,568 households will be affected by land loss and 37 people in 12 households will be affected by
house demolition. The project also will affect some public facilities, including power and communication
lines, wells, and irrigation canals.
Legal Framework
7. The project followed the following policies in its resettlement planning:
*   World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
*   Constitution of the PRC
*   Regulation on Self-autonomy of Ethnic Minority Regions in PRC
*   Land Administration Law of PRC
*   Implementation Regulations of the Land Administration Law of PRC
*   Grassland Law of PRC and its Implementation Regulation
8 The following policy principles were followed in developing the Resettlement Action Plan:
*   All possible measures should be explored to mipimnize adverse impacts, including engineering,
technical and economic measures.
*   The objective of resettlement planning is to improve or at least restore the living standard of
the affected population.
*   All affected assets should be compensated at replacement cost without depreciation.
*   Compensation fund should be paid before the acquisition of the assets.
*   Resettlement will be land-based.
*   The affected people and the host population should be encouraged to participate in resettlement
planning.
*   Resettlers should try to be relocated within existing communities.
Resettlement Budget And Disbursement
9. The RAP contains detailed compensation rates for all affected assets. They were calculated based on
the above principles and after consultation with local governments and the affected people. Land
compensation rate was estimated at 13 times of the average output value per mu. Detailed unit rate
analysis was conducted to deternine the replacement costs for different types of houses in different project
counties. Compensation for affected public facilities was estimated at reconstruction cost.
10. A detailed resettlement budget has been developed on the basis of the inventory and the developed
compensation rates. This budget includes the base cost, management fees, and contingencies. The base
cost includes compensation for land, standing crops, houses, attached structures, facilities, land acquisition
tax, resettlement subsidy, fund for land leveling, training, and monitoring. The management fee is
estimated at 4 percent of the base cost. Contingency is estimated at 15 percent of the base cost respectively
for physical and price. The total resettlement budget is RMB 49.37 million, about 3.5 percent of the total
project budget. Resettlement will be financed entirely through counterpart funds.
11. Resettlement funds will be disbursed from the project office to the various entitled units through the
resettlement offices at prefecture, county and township offices. Land compensation will be paid to the
-82 -



villages, while compensation for standing crops, houses, and other private assets will be paid to the affected
farmers. Compensation for affected public facilities will be paid to the owning government agencies.
Livelihood Restoration
12 Relocation of households. Given the linear nature of the project, the average number of relocating
households in one village is three. All relocating households plan to build their replacement houses within
their existing village. The villages will provide new residential plots and the specific house sites will be
finalized through consultation with the affected households. All relocating households will be serviced with
existing public facilities and infrastructure.
13 Rehabilitation ofpublic facilities. The affected infrastructure facilities are mainly power and
telecommunications lines and water conservancy and transport facilities. For these facilities, compensation
based on the replacement cost will be paid to the owners. The owners of the facilities will be responsible
for their reconstruction.
14 Livelihood restoration. Livelihood restoration for farmers losing agricultural land will follow a land-
and agriculture-based strategy. All affected farmers will receive cultivated land through the redistribution
of collective village land. Land compensation will be paid to the villages for collective investment.
Consultations with the affected villages on livelihood development have identified the areas of need and
potential development, including cash crops, improving existing irrigation systems, reinforcing extension
services, farmer training in science and technology, agroprocessing, reclamation of barren mountain and
land, and development of non-farm sectors on the basis of local resources. For villagers who lose more
than 25 percent of their land, further consultations have resulted in village-specific strategies for livelihood
development, and village-specific income-generating measures will be developed.
Institutional Arrangement
15 The Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) has established a multilevel organizational
framework to plan and implement resettlement. This framework has resettlement offices at different levels
of government, including project, prefecture/city, county/banner, and township. These offices have been
staffed with experienced experts and their responsibilities are specified in the RAP. Other government
agencies are also involved, including planning, finance, communications and land administration at
different levels. A detailed training program for capacity building in the project offices has been developed
and is described in the RAP.
Implementation Schedule
16 Resettlement will follow the following principles for scheduling implementation (a detailed
implementation schedule is developed in the RAP):
* Civil works cannot start before the relocating households move into their new houses.
* Demolition notice must be served at least three months before relocation and relocating
households will be given at least three months for new house construction.
*   Civil works can't start before land compensation payment and land acquisition is completed
* Redistribution of land should be carried out during the season-breaks
* Village-specific livelihood restoration measures should be developed the same time of land
redistribution
* Reconstruction and rehabilitation of affected public facilities and infrastructure should be
completed before civil works start
- 83-



Public Consultation and Grievance Redress
17. The RAP was prepared with the active participation of the affected population. Local governments,
village leaders, and the affected population participated in the census, inventory, the finalization of the
alignment, the compensation rates, the relocation, and livelihood development schemes. Project information
and resettlement policies were disseminated before and during the consultation process. The affected
population was systematically consulted through a social assessment and their feedback was incorporated
into the RAP. The final draft RAP has been placed in local libraries and its availability was announced in
local newspapers. The project office will prepare a Resettlement Information Booklet and distribute it to
all affected households after project appraisal.
18. The project office has designed a grievance redress mechanism. Any grievances will be redressed
through the resettlement management at different levels. The RAP contains detailed procedures and time
frame for grievance redress. This mechanism will be described in the Resettlement Information Booklet.
Resettlement Monitoring
19. To ensure the smooth and successful implementation of the RAP, the project office has designed both
internal and independent monitoring mechanisms for RAP implementation. Intemal monitoring will be
conducted through the resettlement offices at various levels of govemment. It will focus mainly on the
physical progress of the RAP implementation. Independent monitoring will be conducted by East China
Science and Engineering University every six months. It will evaluate physical progress and livelihood
restoration efforts and their effectiveness. The RAP describes in detail the monitoring purpose,
responsibility, indicators, methodology, procedures, and reporting requirements.
Social Safeguard works on the non-Bank financed contiguous road sections
20. An issue was raised during the pre-decision safeguard review meeting whether paragraph 4 of the new
OP 4.12 applies to the project. A few follow up meetings were convened to discuss the issue. Finally the
issue was discussed at the Resettlement Committee Meeting on March 22, 2002. The meeting decided that
paragraph 4 of the new OP 4.12 does not apply because the PCD meeting for the project was held prior to
January 2002, the trigger date for the new policy to apply. The Resettlement Committee asked for
confirmation regarding the due diligence aspect of the Hebei Province road section and the task team
subsequently provided the necessary confirmation (see paras. 21 and 22 below).
21. On the western connecting section from Jining to Hohhot (126 kmn), it was confimned that IMCD had
contracted the Chang'an University to conduct environmental impact assessment according to domestic
environmental laws and standards, and the results of the EIA was approved by SEPA. Land acquisition on
the section was cleared by the Land Administration Bureau of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and
resettlement on this section has been completed. It followed the same policies as the Jining - Laoyemiao
section section, to be financed by the Bank. The compensation rates are the same except areas near
Hohhot, where the rates are higher.
22. On the eastem connecting section from Laoyemiao to Zhangjiakou (73 Ian) in Hebei province,
authorities in Hebei Communications Department confirmed that its environmental impact assessment was
done according to domestic standards and approved by SEPA last year. Required land acquisition was also
cleared by the Land Administration Bureau of Hebei Province, and resettlement has been completed as
construction is about to start with the starting of new construction season in April 2002.
- 84 -



Additional Annex 14
Strengthening and Reforming Highway Maintenance
CHINA: Inner Mongolia Highway Project
1. Road transport is vital for iner Mongolia. Highways carry about 86 percent of all passenger
movement and 79 percent of all freight. Inner Mongolia has increased its investment in highways from
RMB 2.68 million in the Eighth Five-Year Plan to RMB 14.8 million in the Ninth Five-Year Plan.
Such a large investment in the highway system will in turn increase maintenance needs. Inner
Mongolia will need to ensure that adequate funding is provided to maintain the expanded highway
assets, and that planning and execution of maintenance is as efficient as possible, and is supported by
modem management instrments and techniques.
2. IMCD received assistance from the Bank's Technical Cooperation Credit #4 (TCC4) to help
IMCD launch studies, conduct pilot activities, and train its staff with a view to reforning and
modernizing the management of Inner Mongolia's highway system. Such reforms and modernization
are essential to allow Inner Mongolia to meet the increasing demands on its transport system, and are in
line with MOC's directives for introducing market-oriented reformns in the highway sector. TCC4
assistance was fornulated during preparation and is an integral part of this highway project.
Organization, Planning and Execution of Maintenance
3. Organization. IMCD's maintenance organization follows the administrative organization of the
Autonomous Region. At the top is the Hohhot-based provincial-level Highway Bureau, and below that
highway management bureaus in leagues and cities, and road maintenance units at the level of the
banners. Total IMCD staff is about 30,000. According to estimates by maintenance officials, at least
20 percent of staff could be cut without affecting the execution of maintenance.
I     Administrative Level             Agency               No of Administrative Units
Provincial                  IMCD Highway Bureau                       I
Leagues and Cities          Highway Management Bureau                 12
Banners                     Road Maintenance Unit                    101
4. Planning and budgeting. For routine maintenance, IMCD uses standard MOC guidelines for unit
costs in RMB per kilometer, and allocates the corresponding funding to the road maintenance units at
the various administrative levels. Work priorities are decided by each unit. For major maintenance,
including rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, priorities are decided by IMCD, which provides
additional funding for these works. IMCD has installed software developed by MOC, such as China
Pavement Management System (CPMS) to help identify priorities and type of work to be done.
However, this software is not presently operational on a systemic basis, and it needs to be tested
further, refined, and adapted to allow identification of an optimal maintenance work plan under budget
constraints.
5. Road Sector Revenues and Maintenance Expenditures. The table below summarizes road sector
revenues for 1996-2000, estimates for 2001, and projections for 2002-2005. According to the table,
while new road construction will have increased 2.6 times during 1996-2005, road rehabilitation and
maintenance expenditures will have increased only 1.7 times.
- 85 -



IMCD - Road Sector Revenues and Expenditures (in million RMB)
Actual           Estimate       Projection __  l
Year                          1996 1997 1998 1999 2000     2001   2002 2003 2004 2005
Revenues                      1,367 1,304 1,513 1,652 1,870  2,071  2,320 2,622 2,860 3,150
Expenses                     1,367 1,304 1,513 1,652 1,870  2,071  2,320 2,622 2,860 3,150
of which: - New Construction  746  704  807  803 1,120    1,240  1,390 1,390 1,716 1,903
- Rehabilitation and   274  262  395  267   294    326     366  389  426   468
Maintenance                  I    I    I_I_II
6. Road Expenditures and Road Condition. These figures show that road expenditures are expected
to increase significantly over the next 5 years. However, the gap between funding for new construction
and funding for road rehabilitation and maintenance is growing. Roads that are newly built, widened,
or improved will call for increased maintenance, but funding for road maintenance will increasingly fall
short. As a result, road conditions are likely to deteriorate unless additional funding is secured and the
management of maintenance operations is made more efficient.
7. Maintenance Management System. MOC's standard China bridge management system (CBMS)
was installed in Inner Mongolia in 1994 and the China pavement management system (CPMS) was
installed in 1998. MOC's road data bank is being installed. CPMS can operate without the road data
bank because CPMS and CBMS contain fairly detailed infonnation on national and provincial roads,
including numerical data and photographs and videos of individual sections of roads and bridges.
However, the various maintenance offices reporting data to the center presently are not interconnected.
IMCD would like to solve this problem, and financing for equipment, software, and technical
assistance is being provided by the project loan and TCC4 funds.
8. Execution. IMCD does almost all periodic and routine maintenance work by force account through
its various maintenance units. In recent years, IMCD has tried the following new ways of executing
maintenance by introducing competition:
*   IMCD now executes 15 percent of road rehabilitation work under competitive contracting.
However, the proportion of outsourced work has not increased in the last 2-3 years.
*   IMCD also has launched pilots whereby road maintenance units (10-20 per league) bid for
rehabilitation works inside their leagues.
*   For routine maintenance, IMCD has launched a process whereby staff in a road maintenance
unit bid for the position of team leader, who in turn can select team members. Teams are
composed of six or seven people. The better teams receive a salary supplement as an
incentive. This limited competitive approach encourages better use of manpower and better
quality of work within the local maintenance unit.
- 86 -



Execution of Maintenance on National and Provincial Roads in Inner Mongolia
(in_ ercent)
1998           1999          2000           2001
Rhb  Prd  Rtn  Rhb  Prd  Rtn  Rhb  Prd  Rtn  Rhb  Prd  Rtn
Force Account               8    100  100  90   100  100  90  100  100  90   100  100
Competitive Contracts       1     o      O10    0    0    10   O    O   10    O   O
Rhb=rehabilitation; Prd=periodic; Rtrnroutine
Note: a/ Walachalu League and Chifeng City. Bidding for rehabilitation works within the league.
b/ Contracting took place in Zhelimi league (now Inglian city) and in Yikezhao league. Contract winners were mostly construction units
of the league.
9. Until 1978, Inner Mongolia had one road construction company that did all new construction work
in the province. IMCD later created one construction company in each of the 12 leagues, and now has
31 road construction companies. These companies, which do only road construction, do not receive
any direct funding from the provincial government, but are self-financed through contract work. In
contrast, maintenance units receive their budgets from the Inner Mongolia government. These units are
overstaffed, and their management generally does not allow construction companies to cany out road
rehabilitation or other maintenance work.
10. Role of the Maintenance Units. The maintenance unit in Hua De County is a typical rural
maintenance unit. It is responsible for maintaining 135.6 km of national and provincial roads, which is
the distance that workers can cover by bicycle. About 50 percent of the roads have traffic of about 500
veh/day. About 15 percent of the roads are paved with asphalt and the remainder with gravel. The
unit has 100 staff members, including management and field personnel. This staffing level is based on
MOC's guideline of 1.5 staff per kilometer of road for routine maintenance. The annual budget for
routine maintenance is based on RMB 8,000/kilometer, or about RMB 1 million annually. The unit
receives additional funding for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works. All maintenance work is
carried out by the unit's staff. Unit personnel also inspect road conditions, conducting visual
assessments and using equipment to take measurements of roughness and other indicators.
11. The unit plans to downsize. About 20 percent of the staff will be made redundant and will receive
assistance in launching their own businesses not related to road work. Reduction in personnel would
need to be accompanied by the purchase of equipment. At present, efficiency is being encouraged by
competition and comparing quality of work among the various maintenance teams inside the unit.
12. IMCD 's Highway Construction Company. The Inner Mongolia Engineering Bureau is a
construction company currently under the IMCD. The company is expected to become corporatized
during 2002, when it will change its name to Highway and Bridge Construction Company and will
become a construction enterprise under the rules and guidelines of MOC. The company has a staff of
1,400, and 400 more receive a pension from the company. IMEB is certified by MOC and by the
Ministry of Construction as a Class I contractor.
13. Inner Mongolia Engineering Bureau has some experience in highway rehabilitation. In 1999-2000,
it won a contract for RMB 40 million to rehabilitate about 40 km of National Road 110. The company
might bid on contracts that package rehabilitation and routine maintenance, depending on the size and
location of the works. For road resurfacing, contracts for less than 40 km would not be attractive.
Also, they would need to subcontract the routine maintenance part of the contract.
- 87 -



IMCD Reform Agenda and Constraints
14. Tentative reform program. IMCD has prepared a tentative reform program that would drastically
transform the way IMCD manages the road sector by approximately 2005. The proposed reform
would reduce if not eliminate the work done by force account and make extensive use of competitive
contracting. IMCD has issued a report entitled Implementing Highway Maintenance Under Market
Management Mode and Maintenance Pilot Program. The reform program proposes separating
execution of maintenance from management of maintenance and reducing permanent staff from 30,000
to about 1,000 to 2,000 in a core management group. Significant numbers of non-management
personnel would become staff of new road construction or maintenance enterprises, and the remaining
personnel would either be retrained or retire.
15. IMCD tentatively envisages carrying out the reform in the following stages:
*   In 2002, under the general direction of IMCD, the expressway system will be managed by the
province, national and provincial roads will be managed by the leagues and cities, county roads
by the county communications bureaus, and township roads by township governments.
*   In 2003-2004, all IMCD divisions involved in highway maintenance will be separated into a
new, autonomous legal entity. Maintenance districts will retain only managerial personnel.
Maintenance works will be allocated through bidding.
*   In 2005 and beyond, the autonomous legal entities and their staffs will be encouraged to buy
shares to transform these entities into stockholding (or limited partnership) maintenance
enterprises.
16. Carrying out the intended reforms in four to five years is an ambitious undertaking. During early
implementation, IMCD will need to define many more steps and stages in the reform program than
presented in the current program, with more time for full implementation, and launch pilots for the
various steps and stages rather than proceeding immediately to province-wide reform as the program
suggests. IMCD has agreed to keep the Bank informed on a regular basis of its progress with the
planning and implementation of the reform.
17. IMCD already is experimenting with separating maintenance staff, but in a limited way that
applies only to staff in support functions. For example, in Xingan League, maintenance unit services
such as transportation or food are being hived off to new enterprises.
18. Reform constraints. The main constraint to enacting reform, especially moving from force account
to contract maintenance, is the social cost it would entail. Many IMCD staff members would be taken
off the payroll and would work for new enterprises that would not receive government funding. Some
staff members would be declared redundant. Experience in other countries indicates that the reform
process could be smoothed by guaranteeing the new enterprises maintenance work during a short initial
period, after which maintenance work would be allocated to enterprises under competitive contracting.
19. A second constraint to reform is the financial cost to IMCD. Enterprises pay income and profit
taxes, and until the new enterprises function more effectively than they did as government units,
contracted work would be more expensive for IMCD than work under force account. A third
constraint is Inner Mongolia's long distances, scattered population, and limited transportation means
for maintenance personnel. These factors especially hinder the introduction of competition for routine
maintenance, a low-cost activity that would not justify the expense of motorized transportation for
maintenance personnel.
- 88 -



Project Support for Modernizing, Reformning and Preparing a Cost-Effective Annual
Maintenance Programs.
20. The project will support IMCD's plan to modernize and reform highway maintenance. The project
design takes full account of IMCD's own objectives and proposals, current weaknesses, and priority
areas for improvement. Project support, provided by the loan and TCC4 funds, will finance
consultants and equipment and cover the following areas:
*   IMCD Vision. Preparation of a document outlining IMCD's vision for reforming highway
management according to market-oriented principles.
*   Pilot Maintenance by Contract. Introduction of outsourcing maintenance operations on a
pilot basis using a model that combines road rehabilitation and routine maintenance in a
single multi-year contract (a model known as Contract for Rehabilitation and Maintenance,
CREMA). IMCD, assisted by consultants as needed, will select the pilot road section,
determine performance targets, prepare the contract and bid documents, conduct seminars
on the pilot with potential contractors, and monitor implementation of the pilot.
*   Maintenance Management System. Preparation of a study to integrate various
maintenance management tools, (such as a road database and pavement management
system), to provide the necessary interconnection of the various units entering data and
using such tools, and prepare a multi-year maintenance program. The study would be
carried out by consultants working closely with IMCD personnel.
*   Software and Hardware Support. Provision of essential telecommunications, hardware,
and software to support the highway management system, with an emphasis on the
interconnection among the maintenance units and IMCD. Consultants will assist IMCD in
this task.
*   Training. The training program complements the training started under the Tri-provincial
Highway project and will help prepare IMCD for designing and implementing a reform
program for the agency, and upgrade the technical, managerial, economic, financial, and
environmental skills of its staff. About 800 staff-months would be spent on regional,
domestic, and overseas training courses, and overseas study tours. The training program
will benefit staff from IMCD central office, the Hohhot-Jining-Laoyemiao Highway
Project Office, the Design and Research Institute, IMCD Highway Bureau, IMCD
Transport Management Bureau, Wulanchabu League Communications Bureau, and
Baotou Communications Bureau. Total training costs are estimated at about US$0.5
million and RMB 2.2 million. Unit costs are expected to be realistic because they are
based on experience from the Tri-provincial Highway project. As is customary with
training programs in highway projects, the proposed training will be reviewed, approved
and partially organized by MOC in Beijing. A summary of the program is in the following
tables.
- 89-



Training Program, Summary by Institution
Regional Training    Domestic Training   Overseas Training  Overseas Study Tours   Total Cost
Unit           P     PM    RMB      P     PM    RMB      P    PM     US$     P     PM     US5   RMB     US$
(000)       _        (000)               (000)                (000)  (000) (000)
I   IMCD                    475    475    950     25     25    200      4           31     2       1     10   115     13
2 HJ-PO                      15     152   36      44     48    384                   4      2      1     14    74    185l
3   D&R lnstitute                                 2      24    192   -      -        1   3      _         3     19      48
4   Highway Bureau                             __12       12    96      2 :_    1    1         .    2     21 91         38
5   Transport Bureau                                                                                      4 __4         40
6   Wulanchabu LCB          _4                                                                      ,     2(            20
7   Baotou LCB                                                          I                           1     1             10
Total                   621 60                   19q      874     1 4  117                    3     36     8      47
D&R: Design and Research
LCB: League Communications Bureau
Training Program, Summary by Training Area
IMCD        HJL - PO    D&R Institute    Highway      Transport    Wulanchabu      Boataou
Bureau        Bureau         LCB           LCB
Hwy layout and planning           x
Hwy transport org & mgmt          x                                        x
Organization and personnel        x      _
Economics, Planning, Mgmt         x
Financial Management              x
Administration                    x
Technology and Education          x
Management
Hwy Supervision                                 x                                                       x             x
Employer Management                             x
Communications engineering                      x             x
Human Resource Develop't                        x
Construction Technology                         x
Testing and Inspection                          x
Construction MIS                                x_
Environmental Protection                        x             x
Hway construction, financing                    x
and management
Bridge design                                                 x
Highway alignment design                                      x
Subgrade and pavement design                                 x
CAD technology                                                x
Special subgrade design                                      x
Survey and Design-new                                         x
technologies
Tunnel design               _
Maintenance technology and                                                  x
equipment
Maintenance MIS                                                             x
Evaluation pavement and                                                     x
bridges
Hwy communications mgt                                                                    x
Hwy Control                                                                       _       x
Toll collection                                                                           x
Management service areas                                                                  x
Operations MIS                                                                            x
Construction Management                                                                                 x             x
-90 -



C3
3F
. ................ .   .   .   . ............ . . ...... .                            ......
N
W) M
. . .............. . .. .   .   . . .   .. . ........ ............                           . . . .     ........
C3
0
C-4                                                                                                                                            10
....................... ... .                                                   EL
CD
La
14                                el
M                                 cn
0
N
-  CA ....                         ........                            . . .......
IL                                                                   ... .........                                                            .............. .
gN
IL
!Ej            R2                                           'IZ  lz                                                                  tz   Q
Ica               I"                                                                       go
t r
ja    .s  :   ;   :;  ;A   ;m     i      v                iaz  m                14
CL                                              j
E                                                    :14                                       14                                                                      o
IQ
5            :a                                                                                                                    4 5
im    o                          2
x C                                                                                                                                             :j        3
0
0  tm   Ig. 'A    a    'A  'A                              Iggl m   W
11.
-no
r4
3                                                                                  ggg
S                  .       .......... .. ....... ....                                              . . ....... .. ...... ....   ...... . ..................... ......  . .........   ......  ..... .  .. . . ..........   ........ ..........
0                                                                                              b
C,L)                                              40,                   .0
z
io        Z
z                                                      40                 r
&   W    )..,          E
5                .2                         i   .
Am                                   Lp IL                          A                                         M.
Im                                       iw       A
0                      a                                  -v   I    0                 V
.   P    4i,  0  :.   a    .
>                                                                       -9 :3
'A                    "rlu
.  .-I                                                 C
3                                                              .2
"A                     ra                               ,  A                                                                          II  C
M                                    o                               W
>
101 .W   2       A                                         0
3,           41                                                         mw                                   M                  M
r
M                                        Z                                                                    2       CL           7L2 M     WM
W    M        If  A    M    12  f.   -9           z    z   U        L)                                           ;z                     I.   Z                      jr-
CL
P. W
1! 1:2 1'                          N        C14 CM        CM   N   N    CM  94   Cn       fn  e)            Cn   V,  r)   M
IT I     I& I I                 i   I    I   I    I   IF, IN 1- k        1A 1- 1- 1- 1- IT---:



Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
l   l     l              2CO1   1 20m     1 ~~~~~~~~~~2003  1 2004  i 2005s  200i 
ID    Task Name                                  Duration      Start        Finish    Hi H2               Hl   H2   HI   H2  HI I H2   I    H2
42    4. Construction Suparuision                12S3 days   W   sdil6102  Sat 9830f08
43         Spcciifc procurmn3ra netic (UMDOB)        0 days  Wa3d 1/1MUM2 iWaed 11510k2        j)I1M6
44         Io objuction of Ban!rto TOR. LOI at Shortli  44 days  WAd 1/10f02  Fri if60 3i
45        Issue inviations to consutnts              0 O days  Fi 3d l/1162 j  Fri 3/1ii32     j                             l        I
46        Lact data to rucoivn proposals              I dryf  Wad 6i/162   i Waid Sfl6i02      i      s,
47         Evaiustron ri thc rtiusity achnisai pmeposa  47 days  - Thu 5/101i032 1 iisbn 7i15f02  I *   i
45         BEnak rviaus avauatIon ript4ch) &no objnc  23d days  Tu:2 7/151 2  Thu i'161i2
49         Notify cornstultmast  n tha opaning data of  1djy   Frn 3d i 6W15/02 I  ni 1i2           48t6           i         i
50         Opening of financial prop2s21s             1 day   Sat 0131102   Sat MI011j2                  811 i'
51         Complca coambYnAd cu:iIy at cost ct'aiuzti  22 drys  lvhn MM2102  iMn 0100102
52         Bannk rovica prmpoi avaluatirsr t no ci.  2i days  Tui 1i0/12  Thu i10i1012
53         Negatiarions r4th censulzmr & sign cerstrza  24 days  Men I 14ii2. Sat 1i3d |02
54         Pmpara trainignratcrial bvy cnsultamn    CS days   Sun 12iki     Frlif 11 103         1
55         Train local staff                       032 days  Wad /i12il3    Fn313;ifi           i
55         Sup3rvision of construction            Q140 days   Wed 40103     Sat 000108          H        i         I
57    5. Highway Nctrmrh improurrmimt (First ftak  751 days    or, lOtirOl  Wad M/3D0=0     _E
58         Revis bidding decoumctcntcos IOC         23 days    Fian 3102i    Fi ied  6/02
59         Review bidding documrants by Isans nt   24 days    lihu t10ii     d ii)-i|ii
FiO        Sell bidding does to eorltraetoni          I D       ri il1ziFli  Fdi iXiii         j1L                 i 
51        Last data to rmeciva bid documartas         I day   tue  30102   Tue 413002          ii
62         Bid evaluation rspert and reirica by  bOC  t days  Wiad 6/1i2   Fr d11002 hii
63         Sank navisar avauation mpen rnd no obja3   days i   a si3 1. i la iDn  1/Do2i
54         Notify suecassful bidd3r                  0 days M1  n 0110/D2 ,sbn ai1Dm2           I     SAO6i 0
65         Nagotiae and sign contraets             i1 days    tue /i;112   Tue      i           i i i/61
65         Consitruction pariod                   543 days     S n 7110A2  Wad 8100/04
Ei7   6. iack spots irrproaciromt (Firrst Pac!isrg--l  2S5 day7s  Llon 9iJ2  !h ijI
5bl        Complete b!dding documrnnts                I day   Mfon Q/3i2iD  n 030D12 
69         Review bidding documanrts by MDC         23 days   Tua 0l1o 2 j Tiu i13i Di2
70         iReriaw bidding documnnt by thi Bank    24 dayzs !Man 1 ii/4I/  Sati 1113i  2        j D-i2
71         teli bidding docs to contractors        34 days j  Sun 1210; Wed 11103              |                   ;
72         Last date to racaiva bid documratrs      i daiys ! Thu iiiii  1Thu iii1                            6   3         i
73         Bid evaluation rapcrt and ravic-n bVy S;OC  24 days  Tlhu 1/16133  Sat 2ii il3        ji
74        Biank ruviza eveluation mapan znd no obj3c 1  22 days  Sun illblQ3 i  at 3i1 6di3     '         -        i
75        NQegotiate and sign comrcts               13 days;  Eun 1/b18,3  ion 3131103          i
75         Construction period                     163 days    Tue 4To i |3 Thu id13010          I       .
- 92 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31682
70-         \ 80             90           10            110--        120            130'
5)                       RUSSIAN FEDERATION                        -i
j'7                                                           \_r.t\,
KAZAKHSTAN                                                             J j  i  j
HEILONGJIANG
UZBEKISTAN           -             )                                         .       r   HA  R I
IN         _            .   r>               /   f  gi M O N G O LIA  A 0 N G 0 L f A
A   -,KYRGYZ  *                                                     C J                   /191 N
,, REPUBLIC                             -                              -- -                  N I
X I N J I A N G; 
*  _  t.  '   E                     -  j _ (_Q IN  G-H
,;^: _-         ANL .,           N$   ) + )                 j
XIZANG    N     p      ~ s'       p   rfr.a d* d               oGSL    \    ,    -E  t 1 J a p  i   C,
N                1~~~~~~GAN5L
scJbis~~30                            'vovmloS in .aI NGH-WAI ,>s                             t/I'11- |
cny         C  her btiahon whw R _ *00  *  -  I  L S' A N         j  >   '   \   II . 
or any endorjemermt o1  - / ~ )$ -J CICI  / Ni;laG *, .,  AC
XIZAN?uGrK@                       --' TiAN-
UNDER        / COSRATO  N ATOA CA PA  'I.                      I % t  .  w . -   |'
Ai N
INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT         (l ;-                            ,1^
PLANNED BTERE 2003  '   ' -  PINTERNA NO TOINTAIES  2 t '   I.II,v  - -  r.  MCSC
S-'        J            -             _ ___ _       _ ' '
T    1AILAN rI              NAN                      IE     'iv
THAILAND                5'E-IAI4NAiN             ''''.11 I-IT  V
_                     _           I 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 J  _'






IBRD 31683
_   PROPOSED LAOYLMIAO - JINING HIGHWAY  SECONDARY ROADS                                   CHINA
_   PLANNED/PROPOSED EXPRESSWAYS  PROVINCE HIGHWAYS                          INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
j  PROPOSED INTERCHANGES  -<  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
HNIP                    EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS                                LAOYEMIAO - JINING HIGHWAY AND
RAILROADS                                       HIGHWAY NETWORK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
O  I'nII-H   I  
iI'II   '''I *^  |  l   TOWNORVILLAGE
HNIP K.b,'er tE BR,( nhnnn  -  COUNTY                                                      _           __           __  .     I _  _.
Th. fof.l leng 70  Lm, *iA5 1 ._-  '1, 
m      8d 1lr , 7 n,Cl-s,I,I                               S  t *I 
01 1 |                      i  -,,1,',             .-                           '                                                       -.  
d                                                 I l.  I .1 1 1 ., ...  z   <  .  ,
MONGOLIA                                                                ..    -.
__~~  ~~ ,i:,,,,,,,,      '.".                                           ;""'-"             -' "
I                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
-_ _   _  _' _I                                 ':,         -. ."::::: " ''.
Jd'                           -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Uc J~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~      ~~               
t   ~   #   v        v               \                     _                             ,                       CEu-ll.  _  _ 4.  r   , 
''~ ~~~UrJ                                      's- j. '.         '._nc - .  ___      _   ,,_w        ,_    Z 1. 
.,~~~~~~~~~~                        *,:  ;  'a4 "'"1','' 
.1  G _ -y  - '  I
,^     @ Urc J -1- ~ ~ ~ ~ *dnn -,    Xinm            '.QhnYn yi hhvn *'  Sh  -
, GU'O1              .                              .  .  -., BE
*-'"' ~ ~ ~ m ''-  -"  "-i rxou  1  Xil1m                       1  -'i.' -.aaYu  .
v Guyana 8 E Wv,. Z              Q 1 h_- -,. 
--g;  ~  t mSO;unqi  *< - Bu7 I  C             IIH   Zt,nz  ,,.                                   1-L      -5 4 N
@z  j; 'id Q.,p          - Y p  0Z.5    ,,                      , ,                         -| -  .- . .
1;' ...$j-                       'F         -            I'                  Ilt.
" '~~~~~~~ 'Li ....,; .1-..{- I. .Elnhr                                                                  I
,_ ~ ~ ~ ~ - .,, ,;  'I 'i-:#           ,,  j5H4NVj|                                               _ _  _
|  1'''I   '     1|5 '2':,,  ,~   ~~~~~~ 'at                           a-_/ ',  \J                   L       |A     ;:






CHINA                                                                           KAZ
INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT
LAOYEMIAO - JINING HIGHWAY
PROPOSED LAOYEMIAO - JINING HIGHFWAY                                       ) CAPITAL OF LEAGUE
0     PROPOSED INTERCHANGES                                                     0   COUNTY
- EXISTING NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                   - - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
EXISTING PROVINCE HIGHWAYS
RURAL ROADS
RAILROAD
S.~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _,,.,                                                                             , ,, I,    ',   '' 
N EI MONGOL 
Xinghe                    ~~~~~~~Start of Laoyemiao to Jining Highway
hf m on his map do ter Imp:y, m eh Sxed        I                   XTh  nao/er Interc\ange
End of Laoyemiao to Jining Highway   aharouQinqr
Qah-r YouyiianX                                                                         InEI M O Nange
sFf \A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                       /                            "---._,,~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
ARL2002



