E531
V 3
Inner Mongolia Highway Project, People 's Republic of China
Laoyemiao-Jining Section
of the Planned National Artery Highway
from Dandong to Lhasa
Environmental Action Plan
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Departnent
of Communications
January, 2002
FWlE COPY



Inner Mfongolia Highway Project, People 's Republic of China
Laoyemiao-Jining Section
of the Planned National Artery Highway
from Dandong to Lhasa
Environmental Action Plan
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Department
of Communications
January, 2002



Inner Mongolia Highway Project, People 's Republic of China
Laoyemiao-Jining Section
of the Planned National Artery Highway
from Dandong to Lhasa
Environmental Action Plan
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Departnent
of Communications
January, 2002



Preface
In order to implement the mitigation measures proposed by "the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIS) of Laoyemiao-Jining Section of the Planned National Trunk
Highway from Dandong to Lhasa, to minimize potentially significant adverse
environmental impacts and enhance the overall quality of the project, we prepare the
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) of the project according to the ETS of the Highway
and environmental assessment guidance of the World Bank.



CONTENT
I Brief Description         ..1
1. Brief Description of the Project .
1.2 Brief Introduction to Environment along the Route  ..  3
1.3 Major Environmentally Sensitive Spots .                5
1.4 Existing Environmental Quality .*--.          .  .       6
2 Environmental Impact Conclusion       .      .              8
3  Environmental Mitigation Measures     .      .11
3.1 Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase .        11
3.2 Mitigation Measures during Operation Phase . .15
4 Environmental Action Plan *-----...                        17
4.1 EnvironmentalProtectionPlan .17
4.2 Environmental Monitoring Plan   .      .21
4.3 Estimated Cost for Environmental Protection  . .23
5  Institution Arrangements for Environmental Management-.....25
5.1 Institutions for Environmental Protection .25
5.2 Training Plan for Environmental Protection Personnel ..   26



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
I Brief Description
1. I Brief Description of the Project
The proposed Laoyemiao to Jining Highway is a completely new alignment. It lies in the
mid-westem part of Inner Mongolia being one section connecting Hohhot and Jining as major
cities in Inner Mongolia. It passes through Xinghe County and the City of Jinning. For its
geographical location, see Figure 1-1.
The starting point of the recommended option is at Laoyemiao on the border between
Inner Mongolia and Hebei Province. It heads from east for west to the destination
( Sanhaonandi of Jining ).
1.1.1 Major Technical Standards
The total length of the recommended route is 91.28 km with a total cost of 1,779 billion
yuan RMB. It is suggested that the whole line be newly built by adopting expressway technical
standards. The construction period is three years (2002-2004). The major technical indexes are
shown in Table 1-1.
Tablel-1             Major Technical Standards for the Alignment
Items      _    Unit          Levels                 Notes
___Road_cla_  s        __c__=        expressway         Plain Ii htrollin areas
Road length         Km           91.28
Design speed       kmth           o100
Subgrade width       M             26
Driving lane width     M          4 X 3.75      ___                  _
Min. Radius of horizontal  M           400
Max. Longitudinal grade  %             4
Total width of large or  M          2X12.5
middle--sized bridges               2  1.
Bridge design load              Atrailper -20,
Pavement structure types           TrAutoser 120,      Asphalt and concrete
1.1.2 Baseline Engineering Works
The major work amount of the proposed highway is shown in Table 1-2.
Table 1-2          Predicted Work Amount of the project
Order                 Item                       Unit            Amount
I                       _Alignment length  km             91.28
2               Earth/stone works              km'             12492.82
3              Subgrade prytection             ke2             5991.49
4                  Pavement                    kn)2            2031.10
Large bridge                m/place         1387.02t8
6          Middle-sized or small bridges      m/place         1049.3t30
7                 Interchanges               Location             2
8                 Passageways                  place             78
9                Land occupied                 mu"_ 7491.
10                Service areas                Place              2
11 X   =          Toll stations                place     2__
Total cost                 billion           1.779
Note 1): a unit of area, I mu=0.067 ha
I



9  o(~1)             Existing Highway(G11O) |
Hebei Province
'-'I w saltntcrla -. *1.  )64t .  11 ,.|
1Bawang Ri'vi  HLM11ti,i Like                                    el , >  /Laoverniao
;2   <    /                I r {f   CDlDIES(NO7i  >~~~~~~~ Beijing
-vKJt                  K I9  (t!At9)   \E4ri §A^/E-1l Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
|(  {3  f  -  ,   I        !        X     Al;.,  zL\                    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -
(-  ?<.t   !   '  1  1  ~             ll! I N  ltX.1
Fig.l1-lb Geographical Lacation of the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
_r    l- -
-~~~~~+



*iW&, ~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~Ningxia .,-,              0~~~~~~~leilogjiai
|Jining-Hohhot SectioXn<                                             b     X
X                                                                         -X_  *sto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i i
l, / \ / - ~~~~~~A      X wt_: 
*-,/ ,'X1'.N'>/ -s F9N t.~~~~~~~Bc AI.; ,,t BeJng                        M3      A
@41*Xt -,,\   i, ,~  ,A,>,, Jg    ,   ,  ,hanl.?D     * iMR 
*Tat Dsb " ^ .,   ,                               ,                 _ , 
(T~~~~~~~xa               l    l     nx*                          I  ClDt            -  -RS -  -  -  -  
(   N!>eawK;  g"*        sr ^            **^* j     (9OYM
*g_   blngXla-   aa X1        ttt             f~~~~~~OM



Enviromnental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jing Hghway
1.1.3  PredictionofTrafficVolume
According to the Project Feasibility Study Report, the predicted average annual traffic
volume of the characteristic year is presented in Table 1-3
Table 1-3     Predicted Traffic Volume             Unit: Vehicleday
Year      Mixed Conversion                |            PCU
_______ _______Value
2005           7888             6309                  12618
2010           12366            10317                 30635
2015           17101            14642                 29283
2020           23647            20565 _               41129
2024           28828           25280                  50560
1.1.4  Project Implementation Schedule
The proposed project is proposed to start in 2002, completed in 2004 and put into
operation in 2005.
1.1.5 Estimated Cost and Fund Raising
The estimated total cost of the proposed highway is 1.7793749 billion yuan RMB. 100
million U.S. dollars ( 828.00 million yuan in terms of RMB) are proposed to borrow from the
World Bank; 728 million yuan RMB will be appropriated from the MOC; 233.73 million yuan
RMB will be raised by the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.
1. 2 Brief Introduction to Environment along the Route
1.2.1 Landform, Topography, Geology and Seism
The survey shows that the projected alignment is situated on the Chahaer lava bench land
on the south edge of Inner Mongolian Plateau. It is obvious that the exposure of basalt is
resulted from north-east and east-west faulty belt. The aligmnent takes right angle to the belt.
Basalt is underlain by purplish red lam and gravel layers. There are many small structural
basins between the bench lands with some being lakes. Topographically, the section between
Laoyemiao to Yushuwang is of loess hilly area underlain by stone bind and conglomerate with
severe wind erosion. Section between Yushuwang to Taigou is typical lava bench land.
The seismic intensity is VIJ-VRI degree.
1.2.2 Climate
The project area belongs to temperate continental monsoon climate zone with plentiful
sunshine. It is dry and windy. It rains seldom. The mean annual precipitation is 365-404 mm.
The rainfall is focused mainly in July through September. The average evaporation is more
than 1400 mm. Sandstorms occur frequently in Spring. The average wind speed is 3.4-3.6 rn/s.
There are great temperature differences in various seasons with an average annual temperature
being between 3.6-4.8°C. The lowest temperature is -33.8°C and the highest temperature
being 35.71C.
1.2.3 River Regime
The rivers the alignment crosses are all seasonal with no water in dry seasons, but floods
occur very often in rainy seasons. The major rivers in the study area are the Bawang river, the
Toutao river, the Niuming river and theYmnzi river. Both Baowang river and theToudao river
flow into the Huangqi lake; the Yinzi river flows into the Yongding river.
3



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyeriao- Jining Highway
1.2.4 Soil Erosion
The area is of rolling hills with many gullies, hills, basins and plains. Because of too
much sand in soil, dry top soil, sparse vegetation and strong wind in the study area, there are
varieties of soil erosion among which are wind erosion and hydraulic erosion. Wmd erosion
occurs everywhere, mainly in dry grassland in March-May. Hydraulic erosion is found mainly
in loess hilly areas in July-September when it rains very often.
1.2.5 Vegetation
(1). Vegetation
The vegetation in the area is sparse with forest cover of 10.1% growing mostly on the
bench land along the rivers or around villages. Some artificial bushes and forage grasses grow
very well. The natural vegetation is very poor with a cover of only about 10-30%.
(2). Forest Land
The study area is one of the key areas of "Three North Protection Forest". According to
the "Protection Forest Construction Plan', afforestation will be camed out on a large scale
wherever possible in this area.
(3). Grassland
The study area belongs to dry grassland pasture belt. The natural pastures have been
deteriorated badly because of dry climate, scarce rainfall, strong winds and plenty sands and
human activities. It is very essential that in the construction of this highway vegetation
protection and afforestation be paid special attention to avoid further desertification.
1.2.6 Farming
Farming is the main industry of agriculture including wheat, potato, millet, com and
Chinese sorghum etc. The wheat average yield per mu is 130 kg, and that of potato is 300 kg.
Cash crops are oil plants, sugar beet, vegetables, tobacco, Chinese medicioe herbs and hops
and so on. In general, only one crop is obtained in one year. Farmland is lacking along the
alignment. Therefore, it is substantially important to protect farmland resources in construction
of the project.
1.2.7 Wild Flora and Fauna
(1). Flora
Wild plants occur mainly in the typical pasture areas among hills. There are 15-20
species of plants per square meter. They are needle grasses, prairie sagewort, korshinsk pea
shrub, etc. On the western bank of the rivers patchily distributed are splendid achnatherum,
sedge, razor grass, and Chinese small iris and other species that are salinity and alkali resistant.
Among hills and on waste lands wormwood, sand fleabane, and green bristle grass occur there.
(2). Fauna
In Ulanqab League, there used to be Mongolian gazelle, deer, wolves, foxes, hares, eagles,
owls and chukars, etc. However, owing to the damage of ecological environment, the number
and species of these wild animals are being reduced sharply. Nowadays, the route areas are
mainly farming areas and densely populated area for living and production. Survey report by
the UIanqab League Forestry Bureau shows that there are a few hares and sand grouses along
the alignment area, which belong to non-protected animals of state, region and county.
1.2.8 Natural Protected Areas
Both existing and planning natural protected areas in Inner Mongolia are shown in Figure
3-6 (El Report). The proposed highway is far away from those protected areas. Therefore, the
4



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- lining Highway
construction of the project does not affect these natural protected areas
1.2.9 Cultural Relics
According to the survey report on cultural relics along the proposed aligmnent areas,
which was conducted by the Inner Mongolia Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology, there
are no important cultural relics and cemeteries along the road construction area.
1.3 Major Environmentally Sensitive Spots
The environmentally sensitive locations (areas) affected by the planned Highway
(recommended option) are presented in Table 1-4.
Table 14     Environmentally Sensitive Locations of Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
Distance                                      Major
Elements  No   Station   Name     from road        Brief introduction        environmental
center                                       issues
(m)
The projected highway crosses the
Yinzi river here; a 329.6m long   Water quality,
1   K279+8W     Yfzi              bridge will be placed at Gaomiaozi;  soil erosion
liver             the Yinzi river rises from the south
of Xinghe County; the average
annual flow of the river is 1,364
million m3, with clean and clear
water; no pollution has been
occurred
The projected highway crosses over
Water    2   K3164-770  Dianzi             the Toudaonaoba river which is a  Water qualitv
seasonal rive with small flow; it
quality,                                   flows into the Zaohuokuo reservoir
The Niuming river bridge is placed
3   K340+310  Niuming             here; Niuming river is a seasonal  Soil erosion
river             one with small flow, this area is
with less vegetation; serious soil
erosion occurs
A 104.6 m long bridge is placed to
4    K348+     Toudao             cross the Toudao river which is a  Soil erosion
530      river              seasonal river with small flow; there
is a severe soil erosion here
The highway crosses the Bawang
5   K353+737   Bawang             river here; the river is with big flow  Water quality,
river             and good water quality. Flow speed  soil erosion
is 2.0 m1s; Bawang river is
recommended as water resource to
be protected by IUCN. This river
flows into Huangqi Lake, which is
about 10 km away from the
alighment. This lake is an important
water source for surrounding areas.
I   K280+400   Dagong    North    A "Hope Schoor' built under aid     Noise, air
school     140    financially by Hong Kong Dagong
(U                                         Newspaper Press with 300 students
________ and 24 teachers at present
A residential area with B00 people
2   K281+450  Gaomiaozi  South 80  of 250  households engaged  in     Noise, air
village           farming and husbandry; Gaomiaozi
ti;                     ______ School is beyond 200m away
o                                          A small residential area with 141   Noise
3      Erxiaopin  North 80  people of 36 households



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Distance                                  Major
Elements  No  Station  Name   from road       Brief introduction     environmental
center                                  issues
(m)
4   K327+200  Bashixiang  through  55 household; some are to be  Noise, air
resettled
Dajimg   Beside  350 people of 85 households in
5   K333+300  village  village  Dajing village; Dajing school is 160  Noise, air
m away (only 20-30 pre-school
students)
Banjia  South 90  160 people of 37 households in  Noise, air
6   K-335+700  village         Banjia village engaged in farming
Bayintala  Norti  Site of township government; 440  Noise and air
7   K345+850  township  120    people of 110 household; farming is
their economy
8   K350+300  Ylwutang  South  100 household in Ylwutang; the  Noise and air
I           100    school is 200 m beyond
1.4      Existing Environmental Quality
1.4.1 Acoustic Environment
The noise levels in the rural areas along the route are 42.4-56.OdB and 34.4-49.5dB in
daytime and at night respectively, complying with Class 4 in GB3096-93 (Standard of
environmental noise of urban area). The existing noise level of Dagong school meets class 1.
So, the areas along the route are with good acoustic quality.
1.4.2 Ecological Environment
(1). The ecological environment along the alignment is of undulate bench and river basin
plain types with farming and husbandry industry. The areas of Shangshanhao along the
proposed highway enjoys good farming condition with other areas being deserts or pastures
with weak ecological environment.
(2). The area belongs to "Protection Forest Areas of Three North" with very poor
vegetation cover of 10-30%.
(3). Extent of soil erosion: light water erosion with a module of 500-2000 t/nm2 'a; light
wind erosion.
(4). Crop a year with a yield of 100-200 kg per mu.
(5). Rare plants and animals worthy protecting are hardly found along the route.
1.4.3 Social Surroundings
(1). Being the hubs of transportation, Hohhot and Jining will be formed into the
development zones leading to economical growth in other neighboring areas. It will serve as an
important strategic position in both Inner Mongolia and the Northwest. However, the economy
in these regions relatively backward. The resources have not sufficiently been exploited.
(2). Agriculture is the leading industry along the route, and is one of the poorest areas
receiving assistance from the country. The annual average income of farmers is 825-1517
yuan.
The areas are inhabited by a number of nationalities. The ratio of Han, Mongolian and
Hui is 94.1-97.8%, 1.9-3.4%and 0.2-1.4%, respectively.
1.4.4 Ambient Air Quality
The mean hourly and daily concentrations of CO and NO2 are lower than Class 2 in
6



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
GB3095-1996 ( ambient air quality standard), and in general, the existing ambient air quality in
good.
1.4.5 Surface Water Environment
The existing water quality of the Yinzi River meets class I standard in GHZBI-1999, and
the water quality of the Bawang River can reach class III standard of national environmental
quality standard for surface water (GHZBI-1999). The existing water quality of rivers along
the route is fairly good, meeting the water quality standards of class III claimed by Inner
Mongolia Environmental Protection Bureau.
7



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
2 Environmental Impact Conclusion
2.1 Acoustics Environmental Impact
a. The traffic noise in operation phase will not have notable impacts on the environment
in daytime in the study area. The noise levels in the villages along the route are in accordance
with Class 4 of GB3096-93 basically.
b. The traffic noise in nighttime during operation phase will have impacts to some extent
on the environment. In short-term operation, Three villages will exceed the standards at night,
Dajing village and Bashixing village in particular.
c. The necessary noise mitigation measures to control the excess values.
d. This project has minor impacts on acoustic environment. With the implementation of
the mitigation measures suggested in the mitigation measures, the impacts of the traffic noise
on the environment will be reduced to a minimum.
2. 2 Ecological Environment Impact and Conclusion
a. The occupation of land for the highway construction will have no notable impacts on
land use in general resulting in minor change in biomass. Therefore, the project construction
will not affect the types of ecological environment and its features.
b. The land occupied for the project is mostly of wasteland and dry land with low yield.
The loss in grains due to land acquisition will be minor with less than 3 kg per person each
year.
c. Greening will be implemented within the right-of-way along the whole alignment to
improve ecological environment in the study area.
d. The landscape along the route will be beautified along the alignment.
2. 3 Soil Erosion
a. During construction phase, the earth works and embankment engineering will result in
remarkable hydraulic erosion. Besides, at various borrow sites there will be wind erosion
because of strong winds. However, the soil erosion are local and of short-term, and it can be
controlled. With implementation of embankment protection work, drainage systems and
greening works, the soil erosion resulting from subgrade slope protection can be controlled in
an effective way. Eventually, the soil erosion level will be restored to the original levels prior to
the construction or the erosion will be even less the existing one.
b. There will be no uncontrollable environmental problems if sand-fixation and other soil
conservation measures are taken.
2. 4 Impact on Social Environment
a. The construction is viable because of its good economical benefits and costvbenefit
capacity.
b. The construction of the highway is the necessity for completion of the national
highway networks, the national trunk line configuration and the main highway frame of Inner
Mongolia. It is a very important step for improving infrastructure facilities in Inner Mongolia.
The proposed project will have significant social benefits by playing an important role in
8



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
business, trade, industry, agriculture, husbandry, transport and tourism. Thus, it will promote
the local economical growth along the alignment.
c. 7491 mu of land will be acquired for the project construction (accounting for 50.66%
of acquired land including 32.9% of paddy field and 17.77% of dry land with low yield). The
route alignment is designed rationally by avoiding Jining city and Xinghe town along the route.
It will not have adverse impacts on the life of the public by providing financial compensation
and resettlement.
d. Effective engineering facilities will ensure that the water conservation facilities,
surface water regimes, highway networks can work well. 8 passageways will be built per 10
km for traffic of the public and husbandry.
2. 5 Impact on Ambient Air Quality
During the operation stage, the vehicular waste gases along alignment will have minor
impacts on the air due to the speedy wind and strong atmospheric diffusion capacity.
2. 6 Impact on Surface Water Quality
a. During the operation period, the storm-water coming from bridge surface will have
slight effects on the water quality in the Yinzi river and the Bawang river, with the water
quality remaining unchanged.
b. The domestic sewage from service centers, administrative divisions, toll stations and
maintenance sections and car-washing waste water will affect water quality, so it can not be
discharged before treated properly.
d. Although there is little possibility of risk of hazardous materials spill, it occurs
accidentally with severe consequences. Therefore, it is required that effective measures be
taken to prevent it from happening.
2. 7 Environmental Impact during Construction Phase
a. During construction phase, there is potential to have serious dust pollution and noise
resulting from heavy construction machinery, earth/lime mixing equipment and asphalt mixers.
Vegetation will be damaged as because of big borrow leading to great soil erosion. In addition,
the sewage from construction camps and garbage and bridge construction will have effects on
water quality.
Although the effect during the construction stage is short-term consequence,
environmental protection measures must be taken according to the Environmental Action Plans
by strengthening supervision and monitoring to reduce the impacts to a minumum or to be
alleviated.
2. 8 Public Participation
The investigation indicates that 95% of the masses agree on the construction of the
proposed highway; 84% of the masses agree on land acquisition and resettlement; 98% of the
masses consider that the construction of the highway is advantageous to the local economy
development; 90% of the masses think that the proposed highway is good for improving their
living standards. They all support the project.
In conclusion, the construction of the highway from Laoyemiao to Jining will have
9



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
remarkable financial and social benefits, so all community and public in the study area are in
favor of it. The alignment is designed rationally in the following ways: it has avoided Xinghe
county town site and the town of Jining City. In addition, it has occupied as less farmland as
possible. It will have minor impacts on the living environment of the residents along the route
during the operation phase. It will not affect the ecological environment species and their
features much. Under the environmental protection measures in the Environmental Action
Plans for the project, highway protection works, drainage works will be ensured. Therefore, the
environment can be protected, and soil erosion can be controlled or decreased. To conclude,
from the viewpoint of environmental assessment, the project is feasible because there are not
any major environmental factors that will constrain its construction.
10



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
3 Environmental Mitigation Measures
3. 1 Mitigation Measures during Construction Phase
3.1.1 Noise Mitigation Measures
a. High-noise producing machinery will not be allowed to operate (22:00-6:00)
at sections in close vicinity of residential areas such as Dajing village (K333+300) .
b. Machinery operators and construction workers will be protected with provisions
like earplugs and helmets.
c. Quarries, mixing sites, and asphalt mixers should be located ¢ lOOm from
sensitive places.
d. The major haulage routes will be chosen as far as possible from villages and
schools and other sensitive locations.
3.1.2 Protection of Ecological Environment
(1) Measures for Arable Land Protection
a. The alignment will avoid high-yield farmland as possible by using wasteland or dry
land. The ratio of land used for highway construction: 38.1% of wasteland, 50.7% of arable
land including 32.9% of paddy field.
b. "Shrinkage" slopes will be used in section of high-yield farmland by means of
retaining walls to protect subgrade to reduce land use.
c. Sites for materials storage and mixing use will be located within the range of land
acquired. Construction camping grounds will be in the rented existing buildings as possible.
d. To reduce occupation of farmland, borrow will be conducted centrally for
embankment fills. 16 borrow sites and 21 spoil sites have been identified with an area of 1,360
mu including 1,030 mu of hilly land, thus that amount of farmland saved.
e. Because the land acquired lies in a corridor, the farmland will be reduced much per
person. For this reason, the fanners whose farmland has been acquired will be reallocated with
farmnland.
f. Compensation for loss of land will be conducted in accordance with the local policies
and regulations to improve economy or living standards of the farmers.
(2) Mitigation Measures for hnpact on Vegetation
a. Protect trees within right-of-way, protection forests for irrigation channels in
particular;
b. Not cut trees within the temporary land if possible. Protection forests of soil
conservancy and irrigation channels are not allowed to cut;
c. Trees beyond right-of-way are not allowed to cut, grass land and bushes will be
protected by strengthening management.
(3) Reduce areas of borrow and spoil sites
The total area for borrow and spoil sites is about 1,586 mu, mostly in hilly areas having
no impacts on fannland. To reduce desertification, elevation of embankment will be lowered
where appropriate so that the area for borrow and spoil sites can reduced.
(4) Rehabilitation of borrow and spoil sites
In construction, the activities of selection of borrow and spoil sites will be incorporated
with local agriculture development and general plan under consultation with the local
11



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
authorities. To sum up, these sites will be rehabilitated as soon as possible.
(5) Temporary land should be used as less as possible
During construction period it is advisable to locate the land for temporary use within the
highway right-of-way such as interchanges, service centers and toll stations. The construction
camps and other sites should be rented in existing places. All the damaged vegetation and
exposed soil resulting from the construction will be rehabilitated as soon as the project is
finished (within and beyond the right-of-way).
(6) Measures to Prevent Top Soil from Desertificating
The only way to prevent desertification due to the project construction is to compensate
for and/or restore surface vegetation.
(7) Greening/planting trees and grasses within the right-of-way
Planting trees and grasses can protect subgrade, prevent soil erosion and beautify the
view. It can also better the ecological environment along the route.
(8) Measures to Restore Vegetation
As soon as the project is completed, the land for temporary use will be cleared for
restoration of vegetation or reclamation where there are irrigation facilities. Where there are no
irrigation facilities, grasses will be planted in straw squares to prevent top-soil from
desertification.
3.1.3 Implementation of Greening
(1) Highway greening should have the following functions: safe, comfortable induction
vision, anti-dazzle features and beautiful landscape. Therefore, the greening should be designed
by authorized institutions.
(2) To guarantee that the design is excellent, the design should be made as soon as the
general project design is completed.
(3) A tender for greening design will be made and supervision will be conducted.
3.1.4 Mitigation Measures against Hydraulic Erosion
(1) Subgrade protection works
Reliable subgrade protection works have been designed for the project. For their number,
Short introduction to protection works:
a. Protection of fill embankment
When the subgrade is (4m, the slope is protected with plantation of grasses. Bushes
and arbor trees are planted at toe to the border of right-of-way.
b. When the subgrade is 4-5m, the slope is protected by using slurry schist and/or
plantation of grasses.
c. When the subgrade is>Sm, mortar schist retaining wall is placed below 1/2 or 1/3 of
the slope.
d. When the subgrade is >6m, below 6m, slurry schist slope is used.
e. At the vicissitudinous section in width and depth of the Yinzi river (K278+880), T
the Bawang River (K353+737). T-type dams are built to slow down water speed.
f At partial sections of sand and wind erosion, gentle slope is used, and on it grasses
are planted and sand barriers are built. The cut slope is 1: 2-1: 3.
(2) Subgrade protection of cutting
a. When the cut is <3m deep, earth slopes will be planted with grasses.
b. When the cut is 3-5m, earth slopes will be protected with mortar arches in diamond
12



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
shape, in which grasses are planted. In case of weathered rocks, the slope will be gentle to
prevent rocks from falling.
c. When the cut isk12m, terraced slopes are adopted, the platform being l.5m-2.Om
wide with the height difference of 6m- 1 Om. At the lowest part, masonry pitching of slope is
used.
d. In case of weathered rocks, facing walls are used to prevent rocks from falling.
(3) Drainage works of subgrade and pavement
The whole alignment is provided with drainage ditches, side ditches, chutes and retarding
walls.
3.1.5 Highway Greening
Highway greening involves slope grass plantation, greening of toe, border, interchanges
and median dividers. Greening is also a means of water and soil conservancy. Considering
water and soil conservancy, requirements of highway greening are as follows:
(1) Within the right-of-way all areas except pavement and other permanent structures will
be planted with trees and grasses.
(2) Site-specific species will be chosen for plantation. Suitable species are poplar, elm,
willow and some other arbors. Some other plants that have properties to conserve water and
soil will also be planted.
(3) Tree planting will be conducted after completion of construction of each section of the
road; Rows of trees will be planted on both sides of the road with interval of about 3 m. The
number of tree planting totals 180,000 along the proposed highway. 85,737 trees will be
planted in the interchanges and land acquisition for the road, which add up to 266,737. The
number of the planted tree under the project will exceed that of the tree to be cut (67, 649) with
199,088.
3.1.6 Control Measures against Wind Erosion
Wind erosion occurs mainly at borrow sites. Besides, vegetation damage during
construction phase should also receive special attention. The following are the mitigation
measures against wind erosion:
(1) Land control
a. Borrow area will be located at centralized sites.
b. The slope of cut should be gentle enough to avoid soil erosion.
c. On completion of the project, temporary land will be cleared up for rehabilitation
(2) Measures against desertification of soil
The 16 borrow sites will be located at hilly areas. Owing to the fact that it is very fry and
windy, it is difficult to restore vegetation in a short time after excavation for borrow. Therefore,
the following measures will be taken to prevent soil desertification:
a. Straw squares will be placed. After clearing up, borrow sites and other temporary
sites will be placed with straw squares to stop deserticating at these areas because of wind
erosion.
b. Grasses will be planted. In straw squares grass seeds will be sown that resist drought,
tolerate poor and barren soil and resist wind.
13



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
3.1.7 Air Pollution Mitigation Measures
(1) The material storage sites and earth and limestone mixing sites will be located in
open areas 200 m from residential areas or schools. Construction material storage sites, assess
roads and road section near village or schools will be sprayed with water regularly.
(2) Fugitive dust control measures
The construction sites and major hauling roads will be sprayed regularly (two times a
day, in the morning and afternoon) to prevent dust.
(3) Asphalt fume control measures
Asphalt mixing sites will be located at least 500 m from residential areas on the down
wind direction of the wind directions. Besides, in the asphalt cooking process, open or semi-
enclosure techniques will be allowed absolutely.
3.1.8 Mitigation Measures Against Water Pollution
(1) To prevent bridge construction from polluting water quality of rivers, some up-to-date
techniques may be adopted such as sinking drum methods and cofferdam method which are
suitable for the particular conditions of rivers such as the Bawang river and the Yimzi River,
crossing the alignment.
(2) Wastewater containing oil will not be allowed to discharge into rivers before treated in
a proper way.
(3) The storage sites of building materials of asphalt, oil and chemicals should be far away
from river banks and muffled.
(4) The sewage of construction campus ( about 20 n3 a day) which is one of the pollution
source should be treated centrally. Feces, when composted, can be used as manure after proper
treatment.
(5) Cofferdam dams are suggested to use in construction to avoid turbid water flowing
into rivers contaminating them. Mud and waste materials of the construction activities will not
be discharged into rivers. Temporary settlement tanks will be dug.
(6) Wastewater of construction machinery, when cached, will be treated properly before
charged into rivers.
(7) Toxic materials like asphalt, oil and chemicals will be stored beyond river bed and
muffled.
3.1.9 Mitigation Measures of land acquisition
(1) Engineering measures
To protect farmland, the following measures will be/ have been taken:
a. The alignment will avoid fanrland of high yield where possible. The aligmnent will
use 49.3% of non-farmland, 50.7% of arable land including 32.9 % of paddy field and 17.7%
of low-yield land.
b. "Shrinkage slope" will be adopted at sections of high-producing land like Sanhaodi to
reduce land use for subgrade.
c. The land planed for facilities such as service area, parking lots will be chosen to use
dry land or wasteland as possible.
(2) Management measures
Because the alignment lies in a corridor, about 0.05 mu of land will be lost per person.
The farmers who lose land will be reallocated with appropriate amount of farmland.
14



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
(3) Compensation for land lost
a. Compensation will be done in compliance with the local policy and regulations to
develop economy and improve living standards.
b. Compensation fund will be granted to the farmers whose land is acquired.
c. The farmers whose land is acquired the most will enjoy priority in labor employment.
(4) Mitigation measures of permanent land use
The following measures will be taken:
a. No paddy land or forestland will be used for storage sites or mixing sites.
b. Topsoil will be stored for rehabilitation after construction phase.
c. Used fallow land and wasteland will be cleared up and made loose for restoration of
vegetation to prevent soil erosion.
3.1.9 Measures for Resettlement Impacts
The designers have made some field reconnaissance to adjust the alignment. As a result,
the alignment has already avoided the urban areas of Jining and Xinghe Townsites and other
towns and villages. An area of 3315 m2 (166 rooms) will be demolished. Due to the backward
economy, the housing is in very bad conditions. Most the residents have strong wish to resettle
although most of them have their own shelters. However, demolition of housing and
resettlement do have some adverse impacts. So the following measures will be taken to reduce
the impacts to a minimum.
(1) Compensation for demolition and resettlement
The local policy regarding housing demolition and resettlement will be carried out strictly
and the compensation funding will be granted to those themselves whose houses are
demolished without using for other purposes.
(2) Resettlement management
a. Resettlement will be conducted under the management of the local governments in
such a way to occupy as less farmland as possible. The new houses will be built in the areas
where the noise levels at night are less than 50dB.
b. Resettlement should be implemented prior to commencement of the project itself.
The new houses will be improved to some extent compared to the current ones. Support will be
given to those who have difficulties in building new houses.
c. As minority nationalities are concerned in resettlement their customs and religion will
be respected.
3.2 Mitigation Measures During Operation Phase
3.2.1 Mitigation Measures for Traffic Noise
(1) Engineering Measures
At the villages noise level exceeding the standard in operation phase(2025), according to
their locations to the highway, the following engineering measures are expected to take (See
Table 3-1):
a.   I OmX 200m of forest strip will be planted between Gaomiaozi village and the
highway to reduce noise by 2.0-3.0 dB..
b. The noise levels will be reduced by about 3.5-4.OdB by removing some houses
beyond 40 m from the central line of the road at both Bashixiang and Dajing villages.
15



Environmertal Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
(2) Management measures
a. No new residential houses will be built within lOOm of the highway and other
environmentally sensitive buildings such as schools and hospitals within 150m.
b. The masses and local governments along the road will be mobilized to plant trees on
fallow land and between road and villages to protect the environment.
(3) Residual Impacts and Development Tendency
a. By taking the measures in Table 3-1, the noise excess levels at the residential areas
along the road in long-term operation can be reduced.
b. Although there are existing protection forests around the villages and at other places,
the public and governments will be told to plant more trees. So, the noise levels will be lower
the predicted ones despite the increasing traffic.
Table 3-1                   Noise Mitigation Measures
Sensitive           From   Length  Max. predicted excess  Measures & estimated reduction
locations         centraline  (i)    values Le(dB)
of road (m)       Ld   L_
A stip of woods more than 10 m x 200m
Gaomniaozi  Village  75      180    0.0      5.0   will be planted between village & highway
K281 +                                             to reduce noise by 1.5-2.0dB
5 houses will be removed 40 m away to
Bashixang  Village   35      50     0.0     8.0    reduce noise by 3.5dB, and woods with area
K327+                                             of lOmX 150m will be planted in the land
200                                              of removal empty between village &
highway
5 houses will be removed 40 m away to
Dajung  Residential  35     300    0.0     8.0    reduce noise by 3.5dB. In addition, woods
K333+      ara                                    with an area of lOm x 150m will be planted
300                                              in tie land of removal empty between
:_______  __ _village &  highway
Measures                                           () lOmn  X  5OOm=5000m2  for noise
total                                               mitigation
() About 10 houses need to be removed due
_______________________________________________       to noise pollution
3.2.2 Mitigation Measures for Water Pollution
(1) The sewage of service centers will be treated by using septic tanks; car washing water
will be recycled for reuse and will meet 3 class standards of "General Sewage Dischaige
Standards" GB8978 -1996. See Figure 3-1.
Figure 3-1 Flow Chart of Sewage Treatment
(2) Domestic sewage at 2 service centers plus tolling stations will be treated by using
septic tanks and after treated used as manure for farming. Otherwise, it can not be discharged
into river bodies.
(3) Toll stations can also take responsibilities of traffic control to stop vehicles with spills
and overload running on the road.
(4) The administrative departments will be informed of vehicles hauling hazardous
materials and they can not run on the road unless get permits. Such vehicles should be provided
with obvious markings and can not stop wherever they want. In case of accidental spill of
hazardous materials, the relevant departnents will be immediately informed of to take prompt
actions based on the emergency plan.
16



Envirornmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
4 Environmental Action Plan
4. 1 Environmental Protecdon Plan
4.1.1 Feasibility study stage
Environmental protection plan during feasibility study report is listed in Table 4-1. The
work of the plan for this phase in being implemented at present.
Table4-1    Environmental Protection Plan for Feasibility Study Phase
Compositions      Institutions    Management         Responsible and        Schedule
institutions    supervision institutions
Inner Mongolia  Inner Mongolia         Ministry of        December
Project      Transport Design  Communications  Communications (MOC),     1998-
feasibility study   Institute      Department     Inner Mongolia Planning   December
(IMITDI)         (IMCD)          Committee (IiC)          1999
Environmental      Chang'an                        National Environmental  December
Impact         University        IMCD            Protection Agency of    1998-
Statement                                           China (NEPA),        Decembeir
(EIS)                                         Environmental Protection    1999
(EP )Department of MOC,
Environmental Protection
Bureau of Inner Mongolia
(EPBIM)
4.1.2 Design phase
The environmental protection plan for design stage is listed in Table 4-2 in which some
requirements have been /will be implemented.
Table 4-2      Environmental Protection Plan for Design Phase
Institutions  Manage-  Schedule
No.   Compositions    Environmental Protection Measures              ment
units
I     Alignment   1. avoiding major sensitive locations
Plane      2. taking less farmland
3. protecting arable land
4.avoiling tree cutting
2      Bridges     5. protecting irrigation works
6. ensuring smooth runoff
7. preventing flood from occurring
3    Passageways   8. preventing traffic disruption. 8 large
and crossing   bridges, 30 medium or small bridges,  Inner   IMCD       January
over        9 grade separations, 2 interchanges,  Mongolia          1999-
78 underpasses and 145 culverts to be  Transport        December
designed                            Design              of 1999
Institute
4    Protection of  9. preventing soil erosion          (MTDI)
_  subgrade    1O. meeting anti-flood requirements
5      drainage    I I . preventing soil erosion
17



Envirornmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Institutions  Manage-  Schedule
No.   Compositions    Environmental Protection Measures                ment
units
6     Measures     12.preventing  accidental  spills  of
against      hazardous materials
accidental
spills of
hazardous
materials
7     Design of    13. reducing impacts on local roads
materials sites  14. not occupying farmland, forest land
or banks of river for borrow sites    IMTDI    IMCD        June of
etc., restoring vegetation                                 1999-
8      Greening    15. protecting subgrade & preventing  El designer           December
within right-  soil erosion                                               of 2001
of-way     16. compensating for vegetation loss
17. highway landscaping & greening
open ground of interchanges
9    Reclamation   18. restoration of vegetation due to
or restoration  highway land use
of vegetation  19. Reclamation or rehabilitation of land
use during construction including
temporary land use and borrow sites.
10     Disposal of  20. discharge of sewage after treated
sewage at
I service centers
11      Sewage     21. septic tanks of domestic sewage and
treatment at   2-stage settlement tanks
management
or tolling
stations
12
12Mitigation of 22. locations and requirements are in
traffic noise     Table 3-1
23. Houses to be demolished because of
noise will be verified by the end of
2001 and listed in demolition plan.
4.1.3 Preparation prior to Construction
Ten households to be removed because of noise will be resettled before commencement of
the construction.
4.1.4 Environmental Plans for Construction Phase
The major Environmental plans during construction presented in Table 4-3. The measures
will be involved in tendering documents and contracts. In the bidding, the employer will put
environmental protection measures in the Table 4-3 into bidding documents of works under the
project as one important part of the whole bidding documents. In bids, environmental
mitigation measures will be specifically rendered to works contractor. Terms for protection of
water quality in the Bawang River from pollution will be ensured in the bid. In the meantime,
the bid also includes indicators of schedule and inspection/acceptance used for completion of
the environmental protection measures under this project so as to minimize the impact on the
18



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
environment.
Table 4-3    Environmental Protection Plans for Construction Phase ( 2002- 2o04)
Environment        Environmental protection measures  ImPle*ent  Manager   Suprision
Issues                                ~~~~~~~~~~ation      Respo-niiliy
Issues                                              Responsibi
lity
EP in      I . EP design in construction ( completed
construction    simultaneously with construction design)
Noise     I. Limiting construction time,           employer  IMCD      EP  Bureau of
pollutant     No high-level noise-producing machinery                   Inner Moagolia
pollutant      will be allowed to  operate from 22:00-
6:00 am at sensitive villages like Dajing
and Bashixiang villages                                   Local       EP
2. Machinery operators and construction                      Bureau
workers will be protected
3. Low-noise construction equipment will be
selectedc
4. Trucks in good conditions will be used for
trsporting of building materials
1. Septic tanks will be provided for sewage at
Water         construction campus; domestic garbage is
Pollution      canned and carried away regularly or
treated in garbage pits properly (I for each
bit section)
2. No sills of oil and chemicals are allowed  employer  IMCD  EP  Bureau of
into the Bawang River, the Y'mzi River                    Inner Mongolia
during bridge construction; no mud or
waste materials are allowed dumped in the                 Lea         EP
river course or floodplains                               Bureau
3. Toxic materials like asphalt and chemicals
are not allowed stored in the vicinity of
water bodies such as rivers and Xiaonao
pond
4. Waste and garbage will not be dumped near
water bodies
I . In rainy seasons mud settlement tanks and
Soil erosion    geotextile  will  be   provided  for
embankment filling and mixing sites
2. When the subgrade is less than 4mn, the
slope will be protected with plantation of
grasses. Bushes and arbor trees will be
planted at toe to the border of right-of-
way. When the subgrade is 4-5m, the slope
is protected by using slurry schist and/or
plantation of grasses. When the subgrade
is more than 5m, mortar schist retaining
wall will be placed below 1/2 or 1/3of the
slope.
3. At the vicissitudinous section in width and
depth of the Bawang river and Ymzi river.
T-type dams are built to slow down water
speed.
4. At partial sections of sand and wind
erosion, gentle slope will be used, and on
it grasses are planted and sand barriers are
built. The cut slope is 1:2-1:3.
5S In rainy seasons mud settlement tanks
and geotextile will be provided for
emnbankment filling and mixing sites
6. No blasting is allowed for excavating
earthy hillsides
19



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Desaiification  1.  Straw  squares will be placed. After
of soil         clearing up, borrow  sies and other
temporary sites will be placed with straw
squares to stop deserticatmg at these
areas because of wind erosion.
2.   Grasses will be planted. In straw squares
grass seeds will be sown that resist
drought, tolerate poor and barren soil
and resist wind.
vegetation    1. All the damaged vegetation and exposed
rehabilitated    soil resulting from the construction will be
for          rehabilitated as soon as the project is
Borrow pits,     finished The vegetation of borrow pits,
temporally      temporally used land will be rehabilitated.
used land    2. To mitigate soil erosion at borrow pits,
elevation of embarnkment will be lowered
where appropriate so that the area for
borrow and spoil sites can reduced.
1. Woods protection: No or as less trees as
Ecological      possible will  be allowed to cut
environment   2. Protection and rehabilitation of vegetation
3. Wild animal and plant protection: No
poaching is allowed
4. The vegetation along the alignment will be
rehabilitated.
1. Fugitive dust at construction sites: water
will be sprayed at construction and mixing
sites; materials sites and mixing sites will
be lOOm away environmentally sensitive
points.
2. No bulk haulage will be allowed for cement
Air Pollution     and lime and they will be muffled
3. No spills of sand, earth and other materials
are allowed when hauled
4. Asphalt mixing will be conducted in
enclosed equipment to comply with the
emission standards of GB4916-85. The
mixers will be 300m away from
environmentally sensitive points No
asphalt mixers will be placed in the
vicinity of Dajing and Bashixiang
villages.
5. The matcrial storage sites and earth and
limestone mixing sites will be located in
open areas 200m from residential areas
or schools. Construction material storage
sites and transportation roads will be
sprayed with water regularly to prevent
dust.
Safety      1. At construction sites safety guards will be
posted   and safety signs and warning
lights. will be installed
2. Hauling vehicles of construction materials
will not be allowed or in reduced
number to run on local roads during  employer  IMCD      EP   Bureau of
peak hours to reduce traffic jam.                        Inner Mongolia
1. Temporary service roads will be constructed                Loca        EP
Local roads        when local roads are disturb:ed                          L   a
2. Damaged local roads will be repaired by the                Bali
employers on completion of the project
3. No spills of materials will be allowed by
muffling the hauling vehicles
20



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Land      1. Good farmland will not be used for
resources       temporary land use; farmland used for
temporary purposes will be restored for
rehabilitation.O
2. Bofrow sites will be cleared up for
rehabiitation on completion of the
project
4.1.5 Environmental Protection Plans during Operation Phase
The environmental protection plans for operation phase are listed in Table 4-4. These
measures are the guidelines in drawing up the environmental plans during operation phase and
will be implemented.
Table 4-4         Environmental Protection Plans during Operation Phase
Environment      Environmental protection measures  Executors  Manages.    Schedules
Issues                                                     Supervisor
Environmental  I . Routine EP management                                  2002-2024
protection     2. Maintenance of EP facilities
management                                          IMFC       IMCD,
3. Width of Trees  IO m, length 500m                      2002-2003
Noise          4. Environmental monitoring will be                        Implementation
mitigation        conducted at villages where noise            IMEPB,    time   will  be
exceeds the standards in 2020 and                      determined after
mitigation measures will be identified       LEPB      2010 depending
____________                           on monitoring
Water          5. Sewage from service centers will be                    Completed
environment       treated                                                before    2004;
and sanitation  6. Sewage  from  toll stations  and                      operation
administrative sections will be treated                 2004-2022
by using septic tanks
7. Garbage from  service centers, toll                    2004-2006
stations and administrative sections
will be canned and carried away
regularly
Soil   erosion  8. Greening within right-of-way                          2002-2006
and
landscaping
9. Land for temporary use will be cleared                 2002-2006
Water and soil    up by placing straw   squares for
conservation      vegetation restoration.
10. Borrow sites will be placed with straw
squares for vegetation restoration
4. 2 Environment Monitoring Plan
4.2.1   Construction Phase
The environmentally sensitive spots and monitoring compositions, factors, fiequencies
and institutions are listed in Table 4-5. Monitoring locations are in Appendix Figure 1. In
addition to those listed in tables, major mixing sites and haulage roads will be also monitored.
21



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Table 4-5 Environmental Monitoring Plan for Construction Phase (2002-2004)
items
Locations          noise        Ambient air  I Surface water        Notes         Managers    and
and stations  Construction     dust   TSP      COD, SS,                           monitors
boundary noise                   Oil, pH
Gaomiaozi                       V 4                          Lager villages near  I.EP Office of
K285+450                                                     the route              IMCD
Dajing            V           4       4                                        2.Environmental
Village                                                                            monitoring
K333t300                                                                            stations  of
Yinzi River                                                   Important  source     the leagues
Bawang                                                      of    water    for  3.EPB of Inner
River                                                      surrounded areas    Mongolia    will
construction         4           V                                                be informed of
camps,                                                                          the  results  of
borrow pits,                                                                      monitonng
quarnes,
temporally
used lands,
haulage
roads
I. noise: one day monthly. 2-3 times a day and/or ad hoc
Frequencies  2. dust: once a month or depends
and       3. TSP: 4 times a year, 2-3 days in succession a time; sampling is done according
requirments      to intemational standards
4. Surface water 2 times a year, I day contmuously, background levels will be
monitored one month prior to commencement of construction.
5. Construction sections, major baulmg roads and materials sites will be momtored ad
hoc
Note: ".  " stands for items monitored (same below).
4.2.2 Environmentally Monitoring Plan of Operation Phase
The monitoring locations and monitoring items, factors, frequencies and institutions are
listed in Table 4-6. Monitoring locations are in Appendix Figure 1.
Table 4-6    Environmental Monitoring Plan for Operation Phase (2004-2024)
Monitoring locations                      Management and
monitoring
instituions
Gaoniaozi
Bawang                      Dajing Village
Items and frequencies              River,                     Dagong school
Ymzi        Gaoinaozi        Erxiaxiang
service   River,      Dajing Village   Bajing village
center    Niuming      borrow pits      Bayintala       IMEPB and loal
River,                        townsip        monitoring stations
Toudao                        YlwutanR
River                         Bashixiang
. _________________                                               V illage
Noise(Leq)            4                                        4
Air (NO2, TSP)          V                        4
Sewage dischage         4
Surface water                     4
(Oil, COD., SS,
pH)
22



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
4.2.3 Report System for Monitoring
|Inner Mongolia Bureau of|
Environmental Protection     EP OfiFice of Inner Mongolia   The World Bank
Departinent Commnunications
The Project Ofiice for Ho-Ji-Lao
High-speed Highway
Local     Bureau    of       The   Project  Office  of  the
Environment Protection       Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
Local Environmental Monitoring
Station                       I
4.2.4. Equipment for Environmental Management and Supervision
The equipment for environmental supervision and Menagement is given in Table 4-6.
Because local environmental station will be entrusted to conduct the environmental quality
monitoring during the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring equipment
and meters are not included in Table 4-6.
Table 4-6                   Working Equipment
Order      Name       Model     Unit Price  Number     Total cost   Remarks
(Yuan)                 (yuan)
I       Computer    Legend      20,000       4        80,000
_  (Soleil)
2      Monitoring   Toyota     300,000       2        600,000      Import
Vehicle_
3        Digital     Japan      9,000        2        18,000       Import
Camera
4        Video       Sony       12,000       2        24,000
Recorder
S       Watering               200,000       2        400,000
_ _ _      ~~~cart  I_              _     _I_
Total              I_I               _   I _           1122,000___       _
4.3 Estimated Costfor Environmental Protection
The estimated cost for environmental protection including environmental protection plan,
monitoring and training is listed in Table 4-7. The expenses in the table will be involved in the
budget (including fund sources). The cost for environmental protection is estimated to be
14,490,900 yuan RM:B (excluding subgrade and drainage) accounting for 0.815 % of the total
cost of the project.
23



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jming Highway
Table 4-7                  Estimated Cost for Environmental Protection
Cost
Phase                 EP measures                Amount     (10000      Sources    Executors      Notes
yuan)
Design   1. Design of EP                                      40       Initial cost  Unit for    kdtxfg
EP
designers
2. EP Plan in design                                                        Project
I____          designers
3. Subgrade protection                 3848112    4014.707
m3                                                g 
4. Drainage                             206194     3177.44                                  B
Constr                                             nm3
uction   5. Greening           trees             85676.8     25.7
grses             350655mn2  351.00     Project cost
6. Water spraying at construction sites              140
7 Waste water evaporation tanks                       5
8. Mufflers for materials                            22
9 Septic tanks (1 for each section)       12          5
lO.Garbage  treatment  at  construction              8
campus
I 1.Safety sigals and waming lights                  10
12.Clearing up of temporary land  use   1681.1       150
13.Protection  and   rehabilitation  of   mu
vegetation
14.Resettlement                           10        25.00    Contingenc     IMCD      25000 yuan
EP                                              house                 y cost or   Contracto   Aiousehold
project  15.trees plantation for reducing noise  10X500       5.0      projectcost     rs       10 yuanh
16. .septic tanks at service centers      2         10.00       Civil                    50000
______       engineering              yuaplace
17 septic tanks at administrative sections  7       10.5         cost                    15000
and toll stations                                                                      yua___lace
18 Me          at  a  e     sa6n "  1     6         6.00                                 10000
SuiE                                                                                yuan/place
19. greening within right-of-way       524.468     262.23     Project cost  IMCD         5000
mu                               Contracto    yuantnu
20. Straw squares at locations of temporary  4838.29  241.66                  rs          500
land use                                                                            yuan_nu
_     21.environmnental  monitoring  during               10.00       project     IMCD         10000
construction                                                  cost      EPBIM        yuan/a
22.EP management during construction                10.00
9     23.Monitoring during operation                      25.0      Maiit-ce    EPBIM or       15000
cost       IMCD        yuan/a
f     24.Management durig operation                         25                               25000vuan/a
E     25.Maintenance of EP facilities                      40                                  40000
26. Personnel traiing                               42.00                   IMCD
WBPO
Total /                                         8641.237      0.815%  ofthe total cost(excluding
(excluding subgrade cost)                         11449.09          subgrade and drainage cost)
24



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
5 Institutional Arrangements for Environmental Management
and Training
5.1 Institutions for Environmental Protection
5.1.1 Institutions for EP during Construction Phase and Their Responsibilities
For the institutions during construction phase, see Figure 5-1. The functions of the
component parts can be seen in Table 5-1
IMCD/World Bank Project Office  1    (
(I Deputy Director for Environment) (| )
Environmental Protection Office
Under IMCD (4 staff)
IM Freeway Co.( It will be set up by June 2002). 4 staff in
charge EP during the construction phase           | 
Environmental Protection
Group in charge of Lao-Ji
Section Highway( 2 staff)                       Lj]
No .1    N          No.                                       No.n
*: One supervision group is arranged for one bit section with one supervisor in charge of
environmental monitoring
Figure 5-1 Environmental Institutions for the Proposed Frighway during Construction Phase
5.1.2 Institutions and Assignments during Operation Phase
IMCD/World Bank Project Office
(I Deputy Director for Environment),  (D
Inner Mongolia Freeway Company     @)
(IMFC)
(I Deputy manager for Enviromment)
1m
Environmental Protection Office under  I®
IMCP                  I©I
IMFC                  [
(4 staff)
Figure 5-2  Organization Structure for the Proposed Highway during Operation Phase
25



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
Table 5-1 The function of the component parts of the Organization
Component name         Number                       Function
of stuff
IMCD/the WB Project         I      (DOverall   responsibilities  of  envirornmental
Office( I Deputy Director             management and supervision
for Environmental                (9)Coordination among concerned bodies including
Protection                      local environmental authorities
4      (MDevelopment of plans of management and
Environmental Protection               monitoring
Office,                     (4)Preparation of quarterly environmental reports
Inner Mongolia Freeway                including monitoring data
Company                      (©Planning   and  implementing   environmental
training
Environmental Protection     2
group for Laoyemiao-               (Inspection/supervision  of  environment   of
Jining Ssection                   construction sites
(D)Tmplementation of environmental monitoring
Environmental supervision     4      ®Handling daily environmental issues
engineer at each contrast
section of Laoyemiao-
Jining section
5. 2 Training Plan for Environmental Protection Personnel
The personnel in charge of environmental protection from IMCD and other institutions
will be trained in environmental protection to meet requirements of international organizations
and at home. The training plan for EP personnel is listed in Table 5-2.
Table 5-2                 Personnel Training Plan
Level         Personnel     Number   Time      Cost         Purpoe for Training
(10000
-       v~~uan)
Sbe/He will be sent abroad or
High-level   High-level          I                       at home to training   for
persons                     30       9.0     advancod     enviromnental
days              management and technology of
highway
Environmental  Two persons from                             Foreign training for advanced
staff     environmental       2       30       18.0    enviromnental  management
(management/ad  protection  office        days              and technology of highway
ministrative)  of IMCD
Environmental   Environmental                              They will learn EP regulations
staff (technical)  staff (technical)  15  30       15.0    and  specific  environmental
And supervision           days              monitoring  methods  and
engineer                                technology
Total                         18               42.0
5.3 the Management and supervision
5.3.1 Monitoring Institutions
In both constuction and operation phases, the Wulancabu League environmenall monitoring
stations will be entrusted to take the responsibilities to monitor the environment since they are qualified
stations in all respects.
26



Environmental Action Plan for Laoyemiao- Jining Highway
5.3.2 Surveillance institutions
(1) Stage of feasibility study:
The following institutions will be in charge: The State EP Agency (SEPA), the EP commission of
the MOC, the IMEPB and the WB and IMCD.
SEPA: the most superior executive departnent responsible for the routine surveillance in EP all
over the country including review of EIS, approval of EIS and guidance of implementation of
regulations by the provincial EP bureau; responsible for check & acceptance of EP works.
IMEPB responsibilities: to supervise and manage EP in construction projects, to organiize and
coordinate service in EP; to review EIS, when asked by the SEPA or to approve EIS; to supervise the
implementation of EAP; to check and accept EP works; to determine regulations and standards in
environmental management, and to guide the environmental management of the relevant cities and
towns.
(2) Design phase
The following institutions are responsible: the EP department under the agency of the loan projects.
(3) Construction phase
The following institutions are responsible: the EP agency under IMCD, the Office of the loan
projects.
Wulancabu League EP bureau is to supervise the implementation of EAP under the guidance of EP
bureau of the LMEPB, to implement the relevant regulations and standards in environmental
management, to be responsible for the construction and acceptance of EP works and surveillance of
operation service.
During the construction phase, supervision management will be carried out. The supervisors will be
trained in environmental knowledge in order to execute overall supervision in quality management.
During the construction phase, two supervisors from the loan project agency of the IMCD will be
responsible for the supervision of the implementation of EP measures in EAP and tendering documnents
27



Annex 1-1        Environmentally Sensitive Issues and Mitigation Measures of Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
Phase      Environ. Issues                         Environmental Protection Measures                 R_s7nibility       Supervisor   Schedule
1. avoiding major sensitive locations
Alignment       2. taking less farmland
3. protecting arable land
4.avoiling tree cutting
5. protecting irrigation works
Bridges        6. ensuring smooth runoff                                                       nner
7. preventing flood from occurring                                            Mongolia
Passageways and    8. preventing traffic disruption. 8 large bridges, 30 medium or small bridges, 9 grade  Transport  IMCD  Jan, 1999-Dec
cross over       separations, 2 interchanges,  78 underpasses and 145 culverts to be desgned     Design                    . 1999
Protction of     9, proventing soil erosion                                                     Institute
suberade        10. meeting anti-flood requirements                                           (IMTDI)
drainage       11 . preventing soil erosion
Measures against
J       accidental spills of  12.preventing accidental spills of hazardous materials
hazardous materials
Deinof materials  13. reducing impacts on local roads
.      Designofmstes       14. not occupying farmland, forest land or banks of river for borrow sites etc.,
fi   sites     restoring vegetation
Greening within    15. protecting sugblrade & preventing soil erosion
right-f-way  16. compensating for vegetation loss
right-of-way     17. highway landscaping & greening open ground of interchanges
Reclamation      or  18. restoration of vegetation due to highway land use
restoration      of  19. Reclamation or rehabilitation of land use during construction including temporary  TMTDI  IMCD        Jun.
vq egation           land use and borrow sites.                    _9-Dec.
Disposal of sewage at  20. discharge of sewage after treated                                     El designer                  2001
service centers
Sewage treatment at
management       or 21. septic tanks of domestic sewage and 2-stage settlement tanks
tolling stations
Migation of traffic  22. locations and requirements are in Table 3-1
g  n oirs c   23. Houses to be demolished because of noise will be verified by the end of 2001 and
noise         listed in demolition plan.



Environment                                                                                             Implementatlon  Managers,      Supervision
Phase       l~~Isses                                 Environmental protection measures                             Responsibiity  Supervisor   RespoaslbllJty
EP in construction   1. EP design in construction (completed simultaneously with construction design)
Noise pollutant     I. Limiting construction time,
No high-level noise-producing machinery will be allowed to operate from 22:00-6:00 am
at sensitive villages like Dajing and Bashixiang villages
2. Machinery operators and construction workers will be protected
3. Low-noise construction equipment will be selected.
4. Trucks in good conditions vvill be used for transporting of building materials
Water Pollution     1. Septic tanks will be provided for sewage at construction campus; domestic garbage is canned
and carried away regularly or treated in garbage pits properly (I for each bit section)
2. No sills of oil and chemicals are allowed into the Bawang River, the Yinzi River during bridgc
construction; no mud or waste materials are allowed dumped in the river course or
floodplains
3. Toxic materials like asphalt and chemicals arc not allowed stored in the vicinity of water
bodies such as rivers and Yiaonao pond
4. Wasto and garbage usill not be dumped near water bodies
Soil erosion      I. In rainv seasons mud settlement tanks and geotextile will be provided for embankment filling                    EP Bureau of
and mixing sites                                                                                               Inner Mongolia
2. When the subgrade is less than 4m, the slope will be protected with plantation of grasses.                        Local EP
Bushes and arbor trees will be planted at toe to the border of right-of-way. When the                              Bureau
subgrade is 4-5m, the slope is protected by using slurry schist and/or plantation of grasses.
When the subgrade is more than 5m, mortar schist retaining wall will be placed below 112 or
l13of the slope.
3. At the vicissitudinous section in width and depth of the Bawang river and Yinzi river. T-type
dams are built to slow down water speed.
4 At partial sections of sand and wind erosion, gentle slope will be used, and on it grasses are
planted and sand barriers are built. The cut slope is 1:2-1:3.
5. In rainy seasons mud settlement tanks and geotextile will be provided for
embankment filling and mixing sites
6. No blasting is allowed for excavating earth hillsides
Desertification of soil  I .  Straw squares will be placed. After clearing up, borrow sies and other temporary sites will
be placed with straw squares to stop deserticating at these areas because of wind erosion.
2.   Grasses will be planted. In straw squares grass seeds will be sown that resist drought,
tolerate poor and barren soil and resist wind,



Phase        Environment                               Environmental protection measures                                        MRnponnbltyo  S  nlgsers,  Repvnsiolnt
vegetation rehabilitated  1. All thc damraged vegetation and exposed soil resulting from the construction will be
for Borrow pits,      rehabilitated as soon as the project is finished. The vegetation of borrow pits, temporally used
temporally used land   land will be rehabilitated.
2. To mitigate soil erosion at borrow pits, elevation of embankment will bc lowered where
_______ _ .__ _ .  approrbiote so that the area for borrow and spoil sites can reduced,
Ecological cnvironmnt  1. Woods protection: No or as less trees as possible will  be allowed to cut
2. Protection and rehabilitation of vegetation
3. Wild animal and plant protection: No poaching is allowed
4. The vogetation along the alignment will be rehabilitated.
Air Pollution     1. Fugitive dust at construction sites: water will be sprayed at construction and mixing sites.
materials sites and mixing sites will be lOOm away environmentally sensitive points.
2. No bulk haulage will be allowed for cement and lime and they will be muffled
_                            3. No spills of sand, earth and other materials are allowed when hauled
4. Asphalt mixing will be conducted in enclosed equipment to comply with the emission                         EP Bureau of
13                               standards of GB4916-85. The mixers will be 300m away from environmentally sensitive  employer  IMCD      Inner Mongolia
points No asphalt mixers will be placed in the vicinity of Dajing and Bashixiang villages.                  Local EP
o                            5. The material storage sites and earth and limestone mixing sites will be located in open areas                 Bureau
200m  from  residential areas or schools. Construction material storage sites and
transportation roads will be sprayed with water regularly to prevent dust.
Safety         1. At construction sites safety guards will be posted  and safety signs and warning lights. will
be installed
2. Hauling vehicles of construction materials will not be allowed or in reduced number to run on
.________________  local roads during peak hours to reduce traffic iamn.
Local roads      1. Temporaay sevice roads will be constructed when local roads are disturbed
2. Damaged local roads will be repaired by the employers on completion of the project
3. No spills of materials mill be allowed by muffling the hauling vehicles
Land resources     1. Good farmland will not be used for temporary land use: farmland used for temporary purposes
will be restored for rehabilitation.
2. Borrow sites will be cleared up for rehabilitation on completion of the project 



Phae        IEnlronment                           Environmental protection mensurem                        Executors   MSn.or       Schedules
Environmental        1. Routine EP management                                                                            2002'2024
protection           2. Maintenance of EP facilities
manAgement           ______________________________IMFC                                                       IMCD,
3. WidthofTrees > 10m. length500m                                                                    2002-2003
Noise mitigation     4. Environmental monitoring will be conducted at villages where noise exceeds the                   Implementati
standards in 2020 and mitigation measures will be identified                          TMEPB,     on time will
be determined
LEPB       after   2010
depending on
monitoring
Water   environment  5. Sewage from service centers will be treated                                                      Completed
,8     and sanitation       6. Sewage from toll stations and administrative sections will be treated by using septic            before 2004;
tanks                                                                                             operation
i                                                                                                                               2004-2022
7. Garbage from service centers, toll stations and administrative sections will be canned            2004-2006
and carried away regularly
Soil  erosion  and   8. Greening within right-of-way                                                                     2002-2006
landscaping
9. Land for temporary use will be cleared up by placing straw  squares for vegetation                2002-2006
Water    and    soil   restoration.
conservation         10. Borrow sites will be placed with straw squares for vegetation restoration



ANNEX FIGURE
(iQ _,.,, .. X _ p Fd i.y .....~~~~~~~~~~~...... .. aq1, . .. 
The Distribution Ma of EoviroomentallSensitive Spots and Planned Environmental Monitorin Sites for the Pro  sedLaoeiao inin  Highway dring



