Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  4663 CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Inner Mongolia Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
Dated August 20, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER  4663 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 20, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INNER 
MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION (IMAR). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a 
loan to the Borrower in the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on the condition that 
IMAR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS IMAR, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) IMAR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and IMAR shall otherwise agree, IMAR shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) IMAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, IMAR shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and IMAR, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
IMAR on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) IMAR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
IMAR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by IMAR of its obligations under this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) IMAR shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or 
agencies of IMAR responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) IMAR 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon IMAR’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, IMAR shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial management report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial 
management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of IMAR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify IMAR thereof. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For IMAR: 
 
People’s Government of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 
 
No. 1 Xinhua Street 
 
Huhhot, Inner Mongolia 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86471-6968128 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IMAR may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of IMAR or such other person 
or persons as such Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and IMAR shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
Page  7
-
6
-
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works other 
than for the highway construction under Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works, including electrical and 
mechanical works under Part A.1(c) of the Project, to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A.1(a) shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
(c) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works, other than works under Part A.1(a) of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$65,300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Road maintenance equipment and laboratory equipment estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $2,000,000 or more; and (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Consultants’ 
Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), and 5 of  
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Implementation of the Project
1. 
IMAR shall, by June 30, 2005, complete and furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comments an analysis of and recommendations on the structure of 
toll-rates on the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway, taking into consideration:  (a) the 
results of studies on toll-rate structures under other Bank-financed highway 
projects in China (including: Second Jiangxi Highway Project, Loan No. 4608-
CHA; Guangxi Highway Project, Loan No. 4541-CHA; and Third Henan 
Provincial Highway, Loan No. 4548-CHA); and (b) experience with toll rates on 
major roads in China. 
 
2. 
In respect of the program for Highway Network Improvement under Part B of the 
Project, IMAR shall prepare and, by May 15 of each year, starting in 2003, through the 
second year following completion of said program, furnish to the Bank an annual 
monitoring report, in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, of the implementation 
activities during the preceding twelve calendar months.  
 
3. 
By December 31, 2005, IMAR shall complete the highway safety program 
under Part C of the Project, in accordance with an implementation schedule 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
IMAR shall: (a) carry out the training under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (b) by 
November 15 of each year, commencing in 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
an annual institutional strengthening and training report in form and content 
satisfactory to the Bank covering progress in implementing the IMCD 
maintenance reform program and training, including a training schedule for the 
future year and a description of the training carried out during the year of the 
report. 
 
B. 
Environmental Protection - Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1. 
IMAR shall carry out the EAPs in a manner designed to ensure that the 
Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards. 
 
2. 
IMAR shall: (a) minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by 
persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or of income or 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently; and (b) carry out the RAP in a 
manner designed to at least maintain pre-Project levels, or improve the living 
standards, income earning capacity and production levels of the Affected Persons. 
 
3. 
IMAR shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the EAPs and RAP and the achievement of their respective 
objectives, including the engagement of experienced and qualified independent 
monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; (b) include the results of such 
monitoring and evaluation activities in each report to be prepared by it and 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Part B, together with any 
revisions proposed to be introduced into such plans in order to achieve their 
respective objectives; and (c) introduce such revisions into such plans as shall 
have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
4. 
IMAR shall under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) an annual environmental 
report, by February 15 of each year starting in 2004 through 2008; and (ii) by 
May 15 and 
 
November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2003 through the second 
year following completion of the Project, an internal monitoring report of the 
resettlement implementation activities and the results thereof during the 
immediately preceding six-months period; and 
 
(b) 
cause to be prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnished to the Bank by February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
commencing on February 15, 2003 through the second year following completion 
of resettlement activities under the Project, an external monitoring report on the 
resettlement implementation activities and the results thereof during the same six-
months period as referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of this paragraph 4. 
 
C. 
Monitoring and Reporting
1. 
IMAR shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
For purposes of carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, IMAR shall 
prepare, and provide to the Bank a monthly progress report in form and content 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
satisfactory to the Bank on the civil works for the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway, the 
initial report to be provided by March 15, 2003. 
 
3. 
IMAR shall prepare, and furnish to the Bank, the following reports in form and 
content satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
quarterly reports by February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15 
of each calendar year starting May 15, 2003, which reports: (i) set out physical progress 
in the implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of said preceding 
calendar quarter, and explain variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; (ii) set forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end of 
the period covered by said report; and 
 
(b) 
an annual report by February 15 of each year, commencing in 2004 
through 2007, which: (i) integrates the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section C, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the preceding year; and (ii) sets out any measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the immediately succeeding year. 
 
4. 
After furnishing to the Bank each report referred to in paragraph 3 above, IMAR 
shall take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
