                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000614




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IBRD-46630)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR

                     INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                  October 21, 2008




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION




                                         1

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective: April 11, 2008)

                  Currency Unit =
             1.00 RMBY = US$ 0.120837
              US$ 1.00 = 8,2756 RMBY

                  FISCAL YEAR


       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
CBMS          =      China Bridge Management System
CPMS          =      China Pavement Management System
CREMA         =      Contract for Rehabilitation and Maintenance
EA            =      Environmental Assessment
EAP           =      Environmental Action Plan
EIA           =      Environmental Impact Assessment
E&M           =      Electrical and Mechanical
GOVAI         =      Gross Output Value of Industry and Agriculture
HNIP          =      Highway Network Improvement Program
HSIP          =      Highway Safety Improvement Program
IST           =      Institutional Strengthening and Training
IMCD          =      Inner Mongolia Communications Department
LACI          =      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LJH           =      Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
MMS           =      Maintenance Management System
MOC           =      Ministry of Communications
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
NTHS          =      National Trunk Highway System
OED           =      Operations Evaluation Department
PAD           =      Project Appraisal Document
PCD           =      Provincial Communications Department
PIC           =      Public Information Center
PMO           =      Project Management Office
RAP           =      Resettlement Action Plan
RDB           =      Road Data Bank
RMF           =      Road Maintenance Fee
SDPC          =      State Development and Planning Commission
TAP           =      Technical Assistance Program
TCC4          =      Technical Cooperation Credit 4
VOC           =      Vehicle Operating Cost


        Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
      Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
       Sector Manager: Junhui Wu, EASTE
       Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
   Project Team Leader: Simon Ellis, EASTE
     ICR Team Leader: Simon Ellis, EASTE




                          2

                                                CHINA
                              Inner Mongolia Highway Project




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 B. Key Dates................................................................................................................... 6
 C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... 6
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ 7
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... 7
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... 7
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. 11
 H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................... 11
 I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................ 11
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 12
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 16
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 21
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 28
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 29
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 30
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 31
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 39
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 48
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 50
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
 MAP




                                                     3

              Site visits from IMCD and the World Bank




Dynamic compaction treatment for soft soil




                                                        Pavement of the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway
Highway




Ecological side slope protection measures




                                          4

Subgrade compaction by roller




Traffic on the Highway from Laoyemiao-Jining




             5

A. Basic Information

                                                             CN-Inner Mongolia
Country:            China               Project Name:
                                                             Hwy Project
Project ID:         P070459             L/C/TF Number(s):    IBRD-46630
ICR Date:           08/05/2008          ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                             PEOPLE'S
Lending Instrument: SIL                 Borrower:            REPUBLIC OF
                                                             CHINA
Original Total
                    USD 100.0M          Disbursed Amount:    USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Inner Mongolia Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

    Process           Date          Process        Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                      Date(s)
Concept
                   09/21/2001   Effectiveness:      11/18/2002       11/18/2002
Review:
Appraisal:         02/25/2002   Restructuring(s):
                                Mid-term
Approval:          06/06/2002
                                Review:
                                Closing:            03/31/2008       03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                               Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:            Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                   Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory        Government:          Satisfactory
Quality of                              Implementing
Supervision:        Satisfactory        Agency/Agencies:     Satisfactory

Overall Bank                            Overall Borrower
Performance:        Satisfactory        Performance:         Satisfactory




                                        6

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
     Performance              Indicators            (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem
                                              Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                       None
                                              (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         No                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                             99                99
Sub-national government administration                          1                  1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development       Primary          Primary
Regional integration                                         Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary          Primary
Trade facilitation and market access                       Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:        David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:          Junhui Wu                        Jitendra N. Bajpai
Sector Manager:          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Project Team Leader: Simon David Ellis                    Supee Teravaninthorn
ICR Team Leader:         Simon David Ellis
ICR Primary Author:      Alain M. Dubé



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to improve the efficiency, safety, and cost-effectiveness of the transport
infrastructure to support the social and economic development of the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, and to improve accessibility to its poorer areas thus reducing social
and economic disparity within the region.




                                             7

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The development objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the
Project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally         Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
                                             approval          Target     Completion or
                                            documents)         Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 : ADT on LJH (veh./day): (1) Laoyemiao-Xinghe; (2) Jining-Xinghe
Value
quantitative or (1) 0; (2) 0 New         (1) 6200; (2)                  (1) 9966; (2) 9368
Qualitative)    Highway                  5900

Date achieved 01/10/2003                 03/31/2008                     03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Actual traffic on the two sections of the expressway, LX and XJ, exceeded

achievement)    target values with 61% and 59% respectively.

Indicator 2 :  NH 110 ADT on existing class II Road: (1) Laoyemiao-Xinghe; (2)
               Xinghe-Jining
Value
quantitative or (1) 6,600; (2) 6,500     (1) 4200; (2)                  (1) 4536; (2) 4219
Qualitative)                             4100

Date achieved 01/10/2003                 03/31/2008                     03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Actual values on the two sections of the rehabilitated NH110, LX and XJ,

achievement)    exceeded target values by 8% and 3% respectively.

Indicator 3 :  NH 110 accident rates on existing road (times/km): (1) Laoyemiao-
               Xinghe; (2) Xinghe-Jining
Value
quantitative or (1) 0.027; (2) 0.019     (1) 0.059; (2)                 (1) 0.039; (2)

Qualitative)                             0.069                          0.037

Date achieved 01/10/2003                 03/31/2008                     03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Traffic accidents have been reduced

achievement)    (accidents/km)

Indicator 4 :  (1) Routine maintenance expenditure (million yuan/km); (2) Periodic
               maintenance (million yuan/km)
Value
quantitative or (1) 6,000; (2) 330,000   (1) 20,000; (2)                (1) 11,817; (2)

Qualitative)                             600,000                        473,651

Date achieved 01/10/2003                 03/31/2008                     03/31/2008
Comments        Routine maintenance and periodic maintenance were about 40% and 20%
(incl. %        less than targeted in 2008, though budgets have been increased with 10.2%
achievement) and 5.3% per year respectively (2002-2008).




                                              8

               ADT on road under HNIP (AADT): (1) Xilinhaote- Saihantala1; (2)
Indicator 5 : Zhuozishan-Liangcheng; (3) Kebuer-Baiyinchagan; (4) Bailinmiao-
                Xilamuren; (5) Tumuertai-Shangdu

Value                                      (1) N/A; (2)                      (1) 2,358; (2)

quantitative or (1) N/A; (2) 900; (3)      1200; (3) 1070;                   1,223; (3) 1,615;

Qualitative)    900; (4) 2,070; (5) 860 (4) 1,300; (5)                       (4) 1,521; (5)
                                           1180                              1,603
Date achieved 01/10/2003                   03/31/2008                        03/31/2008
Comments        Actual traffic exceeded target values with 2% for Zhuozishan-Liangcheng;
(incl. %       51% for Kebuer-Baiyinchagan; 7% for Bailinmiao-Xilamuren; and 36%
achievement) Tumuertai-Shangdu
               Number of days road closed to traffic: (1) Xilinhaote- Saihantala1; (2)
Indicator 6 : Zhuozishan-Liangcheng; (3) Kebuer-Baiyinchagan; (4) Bailinmiao-
                Xilamuren; (5) Tumuertai-Shangdu
Value
quantitative or (1) N/A; (2) 12; (3) 8;    (1) N/A; (2) 0;                   (1) 0; (2) 0; (3) 0;

Qualitative)    (4) 9; (5) 12              (3) 0; (4) 0; (5) 0               (4) 0; (5) 0

Date achieved 01/10/2003                   03/31/2008                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Reliability of the roads was significantly improved, with a reduction of

achievement)    89% in days roads are closed to traffic.

Indicator 7 : Tonnage of goods transported to coastal provinces (100t/yr)
Value
quantitative or 2,350                      7,227                             6,463
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                   03/31/2008                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Tonnage of good shipped to Beijing/Tianjin Eastern port is 11% below

achievement)    estimates, but has annually increased with 16% from 2001-2008.

Indicator 8 : Average of GDP in the project affected areas (million yuan)
Value
quantitative or 9,100                      16,280                            17,741
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                   03/31/2008                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Average GDP is 9% higher than the estimation at appraisal.
achievement)




1 The Xilinhaote-Saihantala road replaced the original selected Huade-Anye road.




                                                9

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                            approval         Target       Completion or
                                           documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : % of civil works completed on LJH
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                03/31/2008                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Works were substantially completed on September 19, 2005 and taking

achievement)   over inspection was completed on October 26, 2005.

Indicator 2 : % of highways improved/rehabilitated under HNIP
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                03/31/2008                      03/31/2008
               Final acceptance of the different road sections took place on: August 2005
Comments       for Kebuer-Baiyinchagan and Xilinhaote- Saihantala; September 2005 for
(incl. %       Bailinmiao-Xilamuren and Tumuertai-Shangdu; December 2005 for
achievement) Zhuozishan-Liangchen. Most Civil Works were completed several months
               before the final acceptance date.
Indicator 3 : Highway Safety: % of improved black spots
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                03/31/2008                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       All of the black spots locations have been improved by 2005.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of person-month of completed training (%)
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                03/31/2008                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       All of the person-month training has been completed.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : % of road under maintenance by contract (TCC-4)
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/10/2003                03/31/2008                      03/31/2008
Comments       40km of rehabilitation were substantially completed on August 31, 2004
(incl. %       and the 100 km routine maintenance have taken place for three years, from
achievement) 2004-2007.




                                            10

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                           Actual
No.   Date ISR
      Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                        (USD millions)
  1   12/29/2002      Satisfactory       Satisfactory             1.00
  2   06/24/2003      Satisfactory       Satisfactory             4.50
  3   12/29/2003      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            11.18
  4   06/28/2004      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            14.28
  5   12/23/2004      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            30.49
  6   06/22/2005      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            43.68
  7   10/05/2005      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            49.91

  8   06/21/2006      Moderately
                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            66.49

  9   02/14/2007      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            79.67
 10   06/04/2007      Satisfactory       Satisfactory            79.67



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                   11

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of the preparation of the Inner Mongolia Highway Project, the Bank's
strategic objective, in line with the upcoming Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), was to
support China's social and economic development by providing assistance in three key
areas: (i) promoting sound macroeconomic management and a market-oriented
institutional and social-services delivery system (ii) addressing regional inequalities and
(iii) making development sustainable. Transport infrastructure development was identified
as a key area to reach these strategic objectives.

Transport infrastructure development was identified as a key area for Bank's support. At
the transport level, several important pieces of sector work were undertaken, including: A
Strategy for the Transport Sector (Forward with one spirit, 1997/1998), China Review of
Highway Technical Assistance (1998/99), OED Report on China Transport (1998/99) and
China Highway Sector Strategy Review (2001). The latter was completed and discussed
with the Government in late 2001 and led to the identification of five main challenges
facing China in its attempt to cope with the rapid expansion of its transport network: (i)
Transforming sector institutions; (ii) managing road expenditures; (iii) managing road
revenues and financing; (iv) enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas; and (v)
improving traffic safety.

The main concerns of the central and provincial authorities were to ensure that the
highway system helped integrate China's national economy and facilitated mobility of
goods and services.

The investment priority for the highway sub sector during the Ninth Five-Year Plan
(1996-2000) was focused on building the NTHS, upgrading its feeding network (130,000
km) and included policy and regulatory reforms targeted at financial issues. Under the
Tenth Five-year Plan (2001-2005), apart from continuing the unfinished NTHS
construction, the emphasis had moved toward reducing economic inequalities between
eastern and western provinces. The western provinces continued to be primarily suppliers
of raw material and so, massive investments in transport infrastructure were identified as a
key factor for realizing the economic potential of those provinces and integrating them
into the national market.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project aims to improve the efficiency, safety, and cost-effectiveness of the transport
infrastructure to support the social and economic development of the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, and to improve accessibility to its poorer areas thus reducing social
and economic disparity within the region.


To meet the development objectives, the project targeted the following outcomes:

     a) increased transport capacity and promoted market integration in the most
         important east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia linking its key industrial,
         administrative, and hub cities in Inner-Mongolia;




                                              12

    b) improved accessibility to poor areas in Inner Mongolia through the Highway
        Network Improvement Program (HNIP);
    c) enhanced public sector management of the road network in Inner Mongolia by
        strengthening institutional and management measures and introducing a pilot
        program for road maintenance by contract; and
    d) improved road safety.

The principal outcome or impact indicators selected for monitoring progress towards the
project development objectives were:

    a) reduction in the time spent for interprovincial and intra-provincial trips through
        lower costs and shorter distances on a more efficient highway system;
    b) reduction in the number of days that the road network is closed to traffic;
    c) reduction in traffic accident fatality rates; and
    d) strengthened capacity for managing road maintenance.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO remained the same throughout the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The project aims to accelerate economic growth and thus improve living standards in
Inner Mongolia and the neighboring Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and Gansu
Province, which are among China's lowest-income areas. The major quantifiable benefits
are reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and time costs of road users. The
estimated distribution of the project benefits shows that traffic that diverts to LJH
constitutes the majority of the road user's benefits (61.4 percent), and that car and truck
traffic will benefit the most from the project (73.5 percent). The non-quantified benefits
include a reduction in traffic accidents and improved accessibility to poorer areas of Inner
Mongolia. Improved accessibility, in turn, will generate both direct and indirect benefits
of improved access to job opportunities, education and health-care facilities. It is
estimated that an additional 20 percent of school age children will be able to attend school
following the rehabilitation of the roads under the HNIP component.

Furthermore, the project aims to improve the quality of construction by introducing
improved technology and stricter supervision of construction. The project also will foster
improved practices in environmental protection, land acquisition, resettlement of affected
people, and participatory approaches to project preparation and implementation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

PART A: Highway Capacity Expansion (US$185.80 million)

A.1. Construction of the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway: US$174.6million

Construction of the approximately 90-km Laoyemiao-to-Jining Highway (LJH) is the
project's main component. The LJH is a divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway.
The proposed LJH is a critical part of the national trunk highway system (NTHS) and the
main east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia connecting its key industrial, administrative,
and hub cities of Baotou, Hohhot, and Jining. The LJH will operate as a closed toll




                                             13

highway. It will include two interchanges, three toll stations, two service areas, and a
facility for highway administration and maintenance. The component will also supply and
install electrical and mechanical facilities (tolling, monitoring, telecommunications, and
lighting systems).

A.2. Equipment: US$6.4 million

Equipment will be used to maintain national and provincial highways (including
expressways) and other lower-class roads. Equipment needed for control of construction
quality and environmental monitoring will be procured or supplied before commencement
of civil works and will be locally financed. The equipment list, which includes cost
estimates, is available in the project file.

A.3. Supervision of construction: US$4.8 million

Based on the experience gained from ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China, a
combined team of local engineers, technicians, and other personnel and international
consultants will be created to supervise the construction of the LJH. The foreign engineers
will be integrated with the supervisory organization and will help establish procedures at
all levels, including on-site inspections and laboratory testing. They also will train local
staff through formal sessions and on-the-job training. Three international experts for a
total of about 72 person-months are envisaged to supervise construction, of which four
person-months will be for training and five for contingencies. To supervise six
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) civil works contracts, one ICB contract for
electrical and mechanical facilities, and three National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
contracts for buildings, two resident engineers offices will be created with 100 staff
including site engineers. The estimated domestic supervision input will come to about
2,800 person-months.

PART B: The Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP) for poverty areas
(US$61.10 million)

Inner Mongolia has 101 banners and counties, half of which are classified as poor (31
counties and banners are classified as national-level poverty and 19 as provincial-level
poverty), and only 25 percent of total roads are all-weather roads. Inner Mongolia
Communications Department (IMCD) proposed 41 road sections totaling about 2,300 km
as possible candidates for the HNIP component. Five road sections were selected on the
basis of the following criteria established by the Bank and IMCD:

    *    The sections should link the poor to the developed areas of the province.
    *    The engineering classification of these roads should be between Classes IV and II.
    *    The sections must carry no fewer than 200-500 vehicles a day, depending on the
         proposed class of upgrade.
    *    The economic rate of return on investment should be no less than 12 percent.
    *    Special circumstances, such as a high accident rate also should justify
         consideration.




                                             14

The program includes roads totaling about 343 km, of which 85 km will be Class II
highways and 258 km will be Class III. Road sections will be packaged into 16 contracts
with an average length of about 16 km and a total cost of about US$ 61.1 million, of
which the Bank loan will finance 39 percent.

PART C: Road safety improvement (US$2.10 million)

The number of people killed per 10,000 vehicles is at least 10 times higher than the rates
of Western Europe and North America, and traffic safety is expected to worsen unless
action is taken to improve it.

IMCD has undertaken a highway safety component under the ongoing Tri-provincial
Highway project. It was agreed that the proposed highway safety component would
expand the black-spot improvement work under the ongoing project with a selection of
black spots. The proposed black-spot improvement program will include 15 locations and
be carried out within the existing right-of-way.

PART D: Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) (US$0.80 million)

The IST component of the proposed project was designed to help IMCD strengthen its
management of the road system, especially of maintenance activities. Although the major
part of the IST component will be financed by the Technical Cooperation Credit 4 (TCC-
4) and local counterpart funds, it was designed to complement the staff training financed
by IBRD loan under the project.

The IST component in a broader sense includes the following:

    a) Training (financed by Bank loan); and
    b) Technical assistance (T/A) program financed in parallel under the TCC-4
         financing arrangement which include:
            i.   Project preparation activities (US$500,000). Implementation of this part
                 has been completed before the loan was declared effective.
           ii.   Maintenance Strengthening program include the following activities:
                  i.   Pilot maintenance-by-contract program (civil works financed by
                       counterpart funds)
                 ii.   Road expenditures allocation study
                iii.   Software and hardware support for the Maintenance Management
                       System (MMS).
          iii.   Research and engineering study.




                                             15

1.6 Revised Components

PART B: The Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP) for poverty areas
(US$61.10 million)

The initial selected Class II road from Huade-Anye, 85 km, was replaced with the 350 km
Saihantala-Xilinhaote Class II road. This change was due to a change in local government
priorities and approved by a loan amendment in February 2004, bringing the total road
length for this component to 664 km.

1.7 Other significant changes

Reallocation of loan amounts

Cost overruns for civil works contracts led to a MOF request for the use of the unallocated
US$ 9 million of the loan and a reallocation between various categories due to cost
savings in order to cover higher costs for the civil components of the project. Reallocated
amount included an increase of Part A.1 (LJH-civil works) from US$57 million to US$66
million and Part B (HNIP-civil works) from US$20 million to US$26.12 million (Request
for Reallocation of Loan Proceeds, February, 2008).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project was predicated on the premise that improving road network capacity would
help to generate economic development, alleviate poverty, and improve the quality of life
in the project area.

The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rates quality at entry as Satisfactory. The
assessment is based on the following:

The projects objectives were fully consistent with the Government's priorities and the
CAS as set out in Section 1.1 of this ICR. The project included within it's design
improved infrastructure and integration of the Western region, enhanced accessibility to
remote/low income areas through the highway network improvement program for poor
areas and included components to tackle some of the sector issues including road safety
and improved road asset management and financing approaches.

The national, provincial, and local governments were very committed to support the
proposed highway, because it is the main artery linking Beijing and China's northwestern
region and is also the most important east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia.              The
government of Inner Mongolia has shown an especially strong commitment to this project.
The project is an integral and key component of the master plan that calls for connecting
Hohhot and Inner Mongolia's secondary cities.

The initial risks were estimated as moderate or negligible, with an overall rating of
moderate. Identified potential risks during implementation included: lack of commitment
from the government to implement the final recommendations from technical assistance;
lack of opportunity for trained staff to apply acquired skills in the workplace; insufficient
accountability for the use of internal and external resources; counterpart resources are not
available in time; political pressure interfere with implementation and affect the quality of




                                              16

construction and; land acquisition and resettlement suffer delays. Mitigation measures
were proposed for each of the identified risks.

The technical analysis undertaken during project identification and preparation were
sound.    Feasibility studies and engineering designs prepared by Inner Mongolia Design
and Research Institute were reviewed by an international expert.             The technical
justifications for the selected alignment were found satisfactory. The proposed expressway
alignment was chosen primarily on the basis of topographical and geological conditions
after a review of five alternatives. The design review was not however detailed enough to
bring out the lack of geotechnical information.

The project was designed taking into account the relevant economic, financial, technical
and institutional factors. Detailed expressway and national highway traffic forecasts were
developed on the basis of origin-destination surveys and the expected tolls that would be
charged on the expressway. For non-tolled roads (HNIP), the financial evaluation focused
on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds and operating expenses, including the
financial risks of the project roads. All the indicators showed that the financial risks for
these toll-free roads are modest.

A number of issues that had arisen during the implementation of earlier projects were
identified during preparation of the project and addressed where possible during the
implementation phase. These issues included: i) rushing to bid without a proper review of
standards on preliminary engineering designs, resulting in sizable variations during project
implementation and additional works necessary to improve road safety; ii) insufficient
geological surveys to minimize problems during construction; iii) lack of quality control
of construction; and iv) early opening of roads without adequate electrical and mechanical
facilities. While most aspects were addressed appropriately during the design there were
still issues with a rush to bid and the consequent lack of detail on geological surveys and
other engineering works. While this did lead to cost variations during implementation the
overall costs were within estimates and the quality of construction was very good.

The project design also attempted to ensure that the highway network improvements were
balanced between high-growth areas and high-poverty areas by apportioning a substantial
share of investment to lower classes of roads. Treatment of 15 significant safety black
spots also contributed to improving road safety in Inner Mongolia. The project design
also spurred policy and institutional reforms of road maintenance in line with a 1999
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) assessment of the China portfolio, and the
recommendations of the recent Highway Sector Strategy Review. It included a "Pilot
maintenance-by-contract program", a "Pavement Design Study" and a "Road Expenditure
Allocation Study" financed under the TCC-4 funding arrangement.

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented fairly smoothly, with the expressway, the HNIP, the HSIP
and institutional components completed well within the project timeframe, mostly because
of strong commitment by IMCD.

Large modification of the work program aiming to substantially complete the civil works
of LJH by August 2004 (or more than two years ahead of the initial schedule) was a major
concern of the Bank team during its supervision visit in May, 2004. Following the Bank's
strong recommendation, the IMCD/PMO opted out with a more realistic work program
based on a planned construction period of 36 months.




                                             17

Differences between actual geological conditions on site and those adopted in design
drawings led to cost overruns and contributed to project delay of the LJH (Annex 2).
These changes in design were mainly due to insufficient geological and material site
investigation during the design stage and included, amongst others, the treatment of soft
ground on some roads, flattening and strengthening of slopes in some cut sections, and
changing of pavement base course. These changes and unfavorable weather conditions
contributed to contract variations for the civil works that in aggregate came to some
RMB453.1 million (53.8% increase of the original contractual value). Important delays
were recorded in reporting the status of cost overruns and approving variation orders.

Differences between actual geological conditions on site and those adopted in design
drawings also led to some challenges in the construction of the civil works. One of the
most challenging civil works for the LJH was the treatment of three slope slides. IMCD
recently confirmed that monitoring by Inner Mongolia Design and Research Institute until
the spring of 2008 shows these slopes remains stable.

The 2003 SARS outbreak from November 2002 until July 2003 also had a significant
impact on the implementation of the project with various limitations set on shipments of
construction materials, the availability of construction workers, and the ability for staff to
travel to get training.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project was monitored through a monthly progress of work on the civil works of LJH,
a quarterly report on the progress of implementation of all project components, an annual
monitoring report covering all components and assessing to which extent various
implementation and development objectives have been satisfied. Annual account for the
project for each fiscal year were audited by independent auditors and reviewed by the
Bank's task team.

Key indicators were designed to measure the achievement of the Project's objectives
(Annex 2). The choice of indicators was appropriate. The rate of progress in implementing
each component was also measured against planned targets. Implementation indicators,
determined during project appraisal for each year of project implementation, served as
bench-marks for monitoring progress of work and project activities. Data for monitoring
performance were collected and reviewed in accordance with the agreed plan.

Bank review missions were mounted regularly to monitor progress and quality of work on
site and to provide advice on overcoming difficulties and issues arising from project
implementation. The use of the roads was also monitored in their initial years of operation
during project implementation review missions. The monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation and utilization of the Project was satisfactory and adequate. Arrangements
for the collection of data have been instituted to assure the sustainability of their collection
and usage for monitoring performances by the implementing entities beyond the project
implementation period.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As a category A project, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared for the highway and the other
roads included in the project.




                                             18

The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessments of
development projects in China were followed, as were the Bank's OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. During preparation, the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and EMP were reviewed and found satisfactory. Environmental impact was fully
considered during project design, construction and operation phase.

The potential environmental impacts anticipated in the EIA report included noise and air
pollution during the construction and operation phases, water pollution and soil erosion
during the construction phase. A framework including environmental management and
supervision organizational setup, monitoring approach and methodology, and institutional
strengthening and training was established to ensure smooth implementation and quality
performance. Considerable efforts were made to follow the EMP, and to mitigate and
monitor the project's impact. The mitigation measures taken include appropriate
alignment selection, road crossing, bridges and culverts, drainage, slope protection and
greening work, and restoration of vegetation.

Inner Mongolia Environmental Science Academy (IMESA) was entrusted to conduct
environmental monitoring for the project during the construction and operation phase.
Environmental monitoring was carried out regularly, in compliance with the EMP
recommendations. Based on the monitoring results, The LJHP had passed the
environmental acceptance by the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA)
on February 8, 2006. HNIP had passed the water and soil conservation acceptance by each
local Water Resource Bureau.

Although environmental monitoring was generally carried out well supervision did
identify the need for the increased attention to greening works and vegetation restoration.
There was also a need to further strengthen the ecological rehabilitation measures at
borrow sites, spoil disposal areas and temporarily used lands.

Public consultation and information disclosure was a continuous process through the
project cycle. Total expenditure on environment protection and water and soil
conservation was estimated to be about 64.69 million Yuan. No unforeseen problem arose
at any time.

Based on the factors mentioned above, environmental safeguard performance was
considered satisfactory.

The resettlement and environment teams of the project carried out public consultation.
Final EIA, EMP and RAP were made public locally in project affected areas as well as
disclosed through the Bank's Info shop. To local people, a resettlement information
booklet, including detailed entitlements for each household, compensation and entitlement
policies, and grievance procedures was distributed to affected villages before resettlement
implementation. However, this booklet was not distributed to the approximately 50% of
PAPs that were not educated to the primary school level. Instead, meetings were held to
introduce the policy and face-to-face explanations were held to ensure that everyone
understood the resettlement practices.




                                             19

Major resettlement impacts are summarized in the table below:

                         Table: Summary of Resettlement Activities
                                                 RAP      Implementation    Change
              Land acquisition (mu)            7866.77        8129.85       +3.34%
         Total Compensation (Y million)         28.800         34.44         +19.57

The overall impact of resettlement activities under the project was modest. For the LJH,
the project relocated 24 households. The total land being acquired for the project was
increased slightly by 3.34% due to inaccurate inventory during the RAP preparation
period, and the total compensation cost increased by 19.57% because the compensation
levels for both land and houses increased during the project implementation period.

The land and house demolition compensation funds were distributed to the affected
households and the compensation was in line with the RAP. The assessment of livelihood
restoration showed that the income of the affected people increased by 76% per capita
after land acquisition and relocation. The resettlement implementation was considered to
be satisfactory and it was concluded that the resettlement objective of improving the
livelihood of the project affected people after resettlement implementation was met.

Based on the factors mentioned above, resettlement activities performance was considered
satisfactory.

Fiduciary compliance was satisfactory. Project financial management by the
implementing agency met acceptable standards. Comments of independent auditors on
annual financial statements, when they arose, were satisfactorily explained and clarified.
Procurement was also undertaken in compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. The
main procurement issue was the size and amount of contract variations for the expressway
section for the reasons highlighted in Section 2.2, and the extended time to finalize
contract prices because of these variations.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Following the final inspection in 2005, the LJH was handed over to Ulanchabu Sub-
Company which was put in charge for operation, toll collection and maintenance of the
expressway. The one year defect liability period started on October 27, 2005 and the road
has been well maintained since that time. Several missions have also noted that the LJH
has been well operated and maintained since it opened to traffic on September 19, 2005.

Concerning the control of overloaded trucks, IMCD has made efforts to control
overloading on the LJH. Additional inspection stations, unloading yards, and weight
stations for overloading trucks were built. Overloaded trucks have been controlled
effectively before being allowed to travel on the expressway. After completion of the two
weight control stations, each station was staffed with highway administration staff and
traffic police to allow for strict control of overloading. An interprovincial agreement
between the five Northern provinces (Inner-Mongolia, Jilin, Hebei, Beijing and
Heilongjiang) is now also banning trucks in excess of 55 tons.

In dealing with the environmental protection measures, IMCD has implemented slope
slide protection measures that have been nationally recognized: the greening slope




                                             20

protection measures won a national prize and the knowledge is being disseminated and
implemented in other provinces.

The Pilot Maintenance by Contract sub-component has maintained 100 km of roads;
however it has triggered some concerns on the viability of such an approach within an
environment lacking significant competition between bidders. The contractor's
performance was rated high in comparison with other road sections evaluated under the
program and ranked number 1 in terms of road conditions and maintenance management.
However, lack of competition in a remote area has resulted in few bidders and findings
from the pilot has triggered concerns on insufficient staff training, limited maintenance
budget, and dealing with unforeseeable climatic events or natural disasters.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective was clear and in accordance with the long term development goals
of the Government of China. They remain in line with the current CPS (May 2006), which
reflects the Bank's strategic objectives to foster growth, reduce poverty, encourage good
governance and improve the environment, as well as support China's development agenda
by infrastructure improvement. The objectives of this project also conform with the
Chinese government's strategy, including poverty and regulatory reforms with special
attention to financing issues and ensuring efficient fund utilization; the development of
all-weather roads to remote/low income areas in poor counties; and the rapid development
of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) including provincial roads feeding into
the system.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The objective of the project was to improve the efficiency, safety, and cost-effectiveness
of the transport infrastructure to support the social and economic development of the Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, and to improve accessibility to its poorer areas thus
reducing social and economic disparity within the region. The project outcome is rated as
satisfactory based on its having achieved satisfactory outcomes on most components of
the project, including implementation of the road safety component, general borrower
performance, and the overall successful achievement in meeting the project development
objectives as outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

The completion of the LJH has provided a high grade link in the NTHS, linking key
industrial, administrative, and hub cities within the region with Beijing and the Coastal
areas. Travel time and distances have been reduced for travel on the main east-west
corridor in Inner Mongolia, thereby reducing vehicle operating and transport costs.
Through the HNIP poor counties and townships have been linked to more developed areas
and road closure on local roads went down from 45 days in 2001 to 5 in 2007. In 2007, the
rural areas in Inner Mongolia saw an increase in per capita net income in 2007 of 18.3%
compared to 2006. The safety component of the project has also significantly lowered
traffic accidents on several rural roads and increased road safety in Inner Mongolia.

Project outcome is rated satisfactory specifically for the following reasons:

A. Improved market integration of Inner Mongolia into the national economy
through increased transportation capacity in the Laoyemiao-Jining corridor.




                                              21

The LJH has greatly enhanced the overall transport capacity and mobility on the most
important east-west corridor of Inner Mongolia. The LJH opened to traffic in September
2006 with the existing, parallel, NH110 road being rehabilitated from January 2007 to
2008. As of 2008, traffic volume on the LJH is much higher than estimated (between 59%
and 61%). Traffic on NH110 is also slightly above expected values (from 3% and 8%).
Total traffic along the corridor (both LJH and NH110) has increased with about 13% from
2004-2008. Travel time between Laoyemiao and Jining has significantly reduced by about
38 minutes (41%). The reduction in travel time and distance between Laoyemiao-Jining
has reduced vehicle operating costs and has provided a more efficient and effective
transport corridor.

The LJH has made an important contribution to integrate the regional market into the
national economy. LJH provided a missing link in the NHTS, linking Beijing and the
Coastal areas to the industries and northwestern region of China via Hebei and Inner
Mongolia, and from there to Ningxia, Gansu, and Qinghai. The LJH has contributed to a
shortened travel time on one of the eight East-west Corridors in China and the most
important east-west corridor in Inner Mongolia. Travel time between Hohhot and Beijing
is estimated to have been reduced by two thirds over the last ten years, from about 12-18
hours in 1998 to 5-6 hours today. The tonnage of goods shipped to Beijing and Tianjin
Eastern port has increased annually by 16% between 2001 and 2008, although the total
tonnage is still 11% below the appraisal target of 6.46 million tons in 2008.

In general, the infrastructure investments in Inner Mongolia has facilitated and
consolidated economic growth that has taken place since appraisal of the project. GDP
will reach RMBY17, billion in 2008, which is 9% higher than the estimate at appraisal,
and will result in a GDP growth that is 1.72 time higher than at appraisal in 2002.
Nominal GDP of Inner Mongolia has shown an average annual increase of 20% between
2003 and 2007.

B. Increased accessibility of poor counties and integration of local markets into the
regional economy through the Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP).

The HNIP investments have increased the accessibility of poor counties and townships to
more developed areas. With road density one-third the national average and only 25
percent of roads built to an all-weather standard at appraisal, the HNIP investments
contributed to the improvement of 664 km of lower road classes to link the poor counties
and townships to other villages and to provincial and national highway systems. The
accessibility has increased largely, with an increase in traffic volumes on each of the five
rural roads under the program from 19%-35%, exceeding PAD estimated values varying
from 2%-51%. The length of roads under the HNIP increased from 338 km to 664 km by
replacing one of the originally selected roads due to a change in local government
priorities.

The increased accessibility of the HNIP has contributed to an improved integration of the
local market into the regional economy. For the whole of Inner Mongolia, the rural per
capita net income in 2007 was 3,953 yuan, up 18.3% from 2006.

The reliability of the roads under the HNIP also contributed to the improved accessibility.
The roads were closed to traffic on average 45 days a year before the investments, which
has been reduced to 5 days now that the roads have been improved, a reduction of 89%.




                                             22

C. Enhanced public sector management and maintenance of the road network
Through domestic and overseas training and study tours, the IMCD's staff received
opportunities to learn new practices and technical approaches. Training was undertaken in
areas including construction management, highway management, and environmental
protection. Several findings were successfully integrated in daily practices such as the
environmental slope protection measures and the use of laboratory and road maintenance
equipment that was procured under the project. The project also financed a study to
develop a modern highway maintenance management system which included the
provision of the necessary hardware and software. The new database has allowed the
analysis of large amounts of road information to improve the deployment of funds to
prioritize maintenance works and optimize road management activities.

The project encouraged a more market-oriented system in road maintenance and
rehabilitation by a maintenance-by-contract pilot. The pilot included major rehabilitation
of a 40 km road section and a 100 km road section under routine maintenance during a 3-
year program. The contractor fulfilled their obligations and the work was rated high in
terms of road condition and maintenance management. IMCD is currently exploring
various ways to conduct road maintenance and planning to move from forced account
maintenance to performance base approach in areas were there is sufficient private
competition for bids, which is not the current situation in several low populated areas in
IM.

The capacity of the highway sector entity, IMCD, improved during the implementation of
the project as shown, for instance, in the rapid and satisfactory preparation of the follow-
on Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project (Loan 4765-CHA).

D. Increased road safety in Inner Mongolia

The Highway Safety Improvement Program has contributed to improved road safety in
Inner Mongolia. The program identified 15 black spots for treatment, including
improvement in traffic management (traffic sign boards, road markings, etc.) as well as
physical improvement/rehabilitation of engineering aspects. The different mitigation
measures have contributed to safe road infrastructure at the black spots: The reported 85
accidents, 35 fatalities, and 63 injured over the past five years at appraisal in 2002 were
almost reduced to zero (1 accident, 0 fatalities or injured) from 2005 to present.
Considering the success of this component IMCD is contemplating creating a black spot
(BS) treatment program as an extension of the project which will prioritize sites based on
several criteria. Several hundred sites will be treated of which at least 60 additional BS
sites were identified in critical areas.

The program has also contributed to an increased awareness of (potential) safety issues
and possible mitigation measures in other road components of the project. The proposed
treatment under the road safety component can be used to improve similar road safety
issues in Inner Mongolia. The main challenge for the road safety agenda now is to
implement fully integrated approaches to road safety. There is still a lack of coordination
between the various responsible agencies, for example in the sharing of data, that will
hamper efforts to bring road accidents down further. IMCD are currently exploring ways
in which collaboration can be improved between agencies.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic Internal Rate of Return




                                             23

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the JLH and the rural roads component is
higher then estimated at appraisal stage. The EIRR for the LJH is estimated at 21.8%,
compared to the PAD estimate of 15.1%. The EIRR for the HNIP component is estimated
at 41.3%, with values ranging from 31.4% and 55.0%. This compared to an EIRR value in
the PAD of 30.2%, ranging from 19.3% and 37.8% at appraisal. The table below
summarizes the results of the economic analysis.

The combined EIRR for the entire project are estimated to be 29.7%, compared to an
EIRR at appraisal of 17.9%. The increase in the EIRR is mainly because of the much
higher than estimated traffic volumes on both sections of the Expressway as well as on the
rural roads and the lower than estimated (at appraisal) project costs.

The results of the EIRR for the main highways and the rural roads under the HNIP,
compared to the PAD, are summarized in the following table:

                                  Table: EIRR (in %)
                                            EIRR
                                                   ICR            PAD
                            LJH                  21.8%            15.1%
                       Jining ­ Xinghe           23.2%            14.1%
                     Xinghe-Laoyemiao            18.5%            17.6%
                            HNIP                 41.3%            30.2%
                    Bailinmiao-Xilamuren         55.0%            37.8%
                    Tumuertai ­ Shangdu          46.3%            34.6%
                 Zhuozishan ­ Liangcheng         31.4%            33.4%
                   Kebuer ­ Baiyinchagan         42.7%            33.5%
                   Xilinhaote - Saihantala       50.8%             N/A
                           TOTAL                 29.7%            17.9%

Financial Rate of Return
The financial rate of return is focused on the LJH because the LJH alone constitutes about
65% of the total project cost and there is no toll for the roads under the HNIP. The JLH
opened to traffic on September 2005, with the Ulanchabu Sub-Company of Inner
Mongolia High Grade Highway Construction and Development Company Ltd in charge of
operation, toll collection and maintenance of the expressway. The main income is the tolls
charged to the road users.

The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) to the capital investments is estimated to be
17.8%. This value is higher than the appraisal estimate of 5.8%. The financial rate of
return is based on the construction costs of the LJH, the maintenance costs, toll revenues,
and toll collection costs. The financial profitability of the LJH is better than the PAD's
estimates due to the much higher than expected total operating revenues arising from
traffic volumes: operating revenues are much larger than expected as traffic has exceeded
about 60% of the estimate at appraisal. Other possible costs like analysis of the costs of
financing and operational costs like incidence response are not known and not taken into
account.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory




                                             24

This assessment is based on a review of achievements for the four main objectives
given in section 3.2, the economic and financial returns presented in section 3.3.

     Key performance indicators benchmarks have generally been met or exceeded;
     Improved market integration due to shorter distances and travel time on one of
        the main East-west Corridors linking Beijing and the Coastal areas to the
        industries and northwestern region of China;
     Increased accessibility of poor counties and integration of local markets into the
        regional economy with road closures on rural roads reduced;
     Traffic accidents at treated black spot sites were drastically reduced with
        increased awareness of other (potential) safety issues and mitigation measures;
     Growth in economic output and income in the project affected area are higher
        than anticipated; and
     Ex-post EIRR is 29.7% and higher than the appraisal estimates due mainly to
        the large increase of the traffic volume and lower project costs.

The project remained highly relevant. It has contributed in supporting the Government
effort in developing the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), provincial and
rural roads that link poor to more developed areas. IMCD has intensified policy and
regulatory reforms with priority attention given to ensuring efficient utilization of
funds.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Rating: Satisfactory

As described in Section 3.2 B, the project had a major impact in reducing poverty in the
poor areas served by the project roads. Although not classified as a "poverty project", the
project had a substantial poverty alleviation dimension through the Highway Network
Improvement Program component as follows:

     Accessibility of poor counties and townships to other villages, provincial and
        national highway systems have been increased by improving 664km of local
        roads (almost double the originally planned 338km);
     Reliability of the improved local roads has significantly increased, with a
        reduction of 89% in days roads have been closed to traffic;
     Growth in economic activity and income in rural areas.

(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening
Rating: Satisfactory

The institutional development impact, defined as the extent to which the project has
improved the IMCD's ability to make use of its human and financial resources, is
rated as moderately satisfactory. As described in Section 3.2, there were four main
areas of focus: 1) Training programs; 2) Studies; 3) Pilot maintenance by contract; and
4) Procurement of Maintenance and Laboratory Equipment. Lasting progress was
achieved in these areas:




                                            25

     Training programs have been followed to improve project management skill,
        maintenance planning and implementation, design techniques, quality control
        procedures, traffic safety, and business models and financing schemes for
        expressways;
     The pavement study provided insights to pavement design that are being used
        to successfully reduce cracking in pavement in cold climates;
     Trained staff for all equipment procured under the project;
     Insights to contract design and management issues to set the conditions for
        expanding maintenance by contract.

The Pilot Maintenance-by-contract has provided experience in contract design and
management issues that can contribute to IMCD's changing role in infrastructure works
from direct execution to managing contracts. However, as in other less densely populated
areas of Inner Mongolia there might be insufficient interest for competitive bidding and
therefore it is too early to say whether the findings will be widely adopted. The Pavement
Design Study has successfully tested techniques to address pavement cracks reflection.
The study results were publicized in other northern Chinese provinces via MOC's
Research Institute and workshops.

Though the implementation of the Integrated Road Safety Component has been
successfully, a more integrated safety approach is needed between the different agencies
to collaborate on safety issues and to move forward the safety agenda.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

The project aimed at improving the efficiency, safety, and cost-effectiveness of the
transport infrastructure to support the social and economic development of the Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, and to improve accessibility to its poorer areas thus
reducing social and economic disparity within the region. The risk that the development
outcome will not be reached is low for the following reasons:

     The physical investments have resulted in good transport infrastructure, both for
        the LJH and the HNIP roads that are being used at the benefit of the targeted poor
        population;
     Traffic in these corridors continues to grow with reduced traffic accidents,
        confirming the demand hypothesis for such investments;
     Congestion on the existing road has been relieved and are likely to remain
        acceptable considering available capacity and diversion rates to the newly built
        expressway; and
     Local roads have had significant reduction in number of closures, and the increase
        in GOVIA is expected to be sustained.




                                              26

On the road routine maintenance and periodic maintenance budget, these are lower than
estimated at appraisal (about 40% and 20% respectively). For the LJH, this will most
likely not lead to any problems on sustainability as the user charges on the LJH are
already generating higher income than expected that will adequately cover maintenance
costs. There is more of an issue for the maintenance of the rural roads under the project, as
well as the maintenance of rural roads in general in Inner Mongolia. However, although
total maintenance budgets have not met project targets, budgets have increased annually
by 10.2% for routine maintenance and 5.3% for periodic maintenance in the period 2001-
2007.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group did not review the project for quality at entry. The
task team ensured that the project objectives were consistent with GOC and Bank
strategies. The components of the project, both physical and institutional, effectively
addressed the major issues identified in the CAS and governments five year plans. The
Bank team was led by an experienced highway engineer and included specialists covering
environment, social/resettlement, economics, rural roads, expressway engineering,
institutional strengthening and highway safety. Potential risks were identified, and the
Bank's Safeguard Policies were adequately addressed.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory. The project had three task team leaders
(TTL) in charge of the project supervision. One was responsible for the project
preparation and for the first 2 years of implementation, the second TTL performed
supervision for the next two years, and the third TTL closed the project and led the project
evaluation. The task management transition went smoothly, with previous TTL providing
support and advice to new TTL. The Bank's policies and procedures were applied
consistently. World Bank missions were conducted in a professional and constructive
manner and comprised experts with a sound knowledge of issues. The timing of missions
was appropriate and comments received from IMCD staff indicated a respectful working
relationship and flexible approach by staff. Aide Memoires, Management Letters and
other project communications were completed in a timely manner with clear references to
needed actions covering all aspects of project component, safeguards and fiduciary issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.         The rating for overall Bank
performance is based on the satisfactory quality at entry and the satisfactory quality of
supervision. The supervision team paid adequate attention to compliance with the Bank
policies on environment and resettlement. The advice of the preparation and supervision
team was appreciated and generally followed by the borrower.




                                             27

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory performance is based mostly on both the central and Inner Mongolia
government to i) support the project throughout its implementation, ii) to deliver within
the agreed deadlines good quality reports and project outputs; and (iii) show strong and
continuous commitment to complete all project components, including the institutional
development components.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing agency: Inner Mongolia Communications Department (IMCD)
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. IMCD demonstrated
commitment to achieving the project objectives, including not only construction, but also
institutional development through project financed studies, workshops and training
programs. Construction of the expressway, HNIP and the safety component, were
completed with some savings, to schedule and the quality of the engineering work was
high. Moreover, all works were completed ahead of time, in spite of some delays with
regard to the SARS outbreak from November 2002 until July 2003. Recommendations
made during the missions and field visits were taken into account.

The significant variation orders and cost overruns have led to some delays in the approval
procedure of IMCD. To avoid the long delays in finalizing contracts and streamline the
approval process between multiple agencies, Inner Mongolia will need a simplified yet
efficient internal clearance procedure. However, there was good communication lines
between IMCD and the Bank and also between IMCD and the government. Therefore,
issues arising during project implementation have been discussed and dealt with in a
timely fashion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the government and the implementing agency and also considering that all the original
civil works and institutional components were completed on time and to a satisfactory
quality. The personnel at both the government and implementing agency level were
knowledgeable about the objectives of the project, committed to the timely completion of
the various components and skilled in project management techniques.

6. Lessons Learned

Improved Geological / Hydrogeological surveys at design stage. The situation of
insufficient geotechnical information at design stage coupled with unusual weather
conditions such as prolonged heavy rain has led to an increase in unforeseeable instable
soil conditions. This has led to significant variation orders and cost overruns in both the
IMHP and the undergoing IMHTCP. Project designs should be based on sufficient
geological surveys to minimize variation orders during construction, also taking into
consideration more erratic and/or heavier rainfall and possible effects from climate change.
One way to deal with the heavier rainfall is to adjust the current borehole intervals (500
meters apart) based on soil variation.




                                             28

Simplified internal clearance procedures for variation orders. The approval of the
different has led to long delays in finalizing contracts. A simplified yet efficient internal
clearance procedure in Inner Mongolia is needed to streamline the approvals process
between multiple agencies and to avoid long delays.

Reduced use of International supervision for shorter, more specific technical tasks.
Construction supervision under local engineering firms was supported by an international
consultant firm and four consulting staff were relocated to the construction site. It was
found that the international consultant provided good project management and quality
control support but lacked sufficient knowledge of Chinese standards and technical
challenges. As construction quality in China is generally high and implementation periods
satisfactory, it is recommended to use international consultants only for shorter, more
specific technical tasks and to make more use of local consultants that are familiar of the
Chinese standards and technical practices.

Integrated Road Safety Component. Following the successful implementation of the
safety component, there is significant demand for funds in IM to move forward on the
agenda of road safety. IMCD now need to move from a strategy that principally focuses
on black spot improvements to a more integrated approach involving multiple agencies.
However, experience on other projects has identified constraints in getting collaboration
from other agencies involved in road safety (police, health, education, etc.). There is a
need for a high level Inner Mongolia committee to bring together the various agencies
involved. This committee would probably have to be chaired by senior leader in the Inner
Mongolia government.

Multi-modal/integrated transport planning. In the planning of transport investments it
is important that there is good coordination between various modal agencies. During the
preparation stage more emphasis could have been given to the linkages between road and
rail movements with the objective of improving integration in planning and operations and
greater inter-modal efficiencies.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

IMCD has reviewed the ICR and found the content to their satisfaction. They indicated
that the outcome of the project is successful and appreciated the cooperation with the
World Bank staff.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NONE




                                             29

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest
             Components              Estimate           Estimate             Percentage of

                                   (US$ millions)   (US$ millions)              Appraisal

1. EXPAND HIGHWAY
CAPACITY BY
CONSTRUCTING
APPROXIMATELY 90 KM OF                    185.79             169.05              91%
THE NTHS, CONNECTING
THE MAJOR CITIES OF INNER
MONGOLIA AND ITS I
2. IMPROVE THE HIGHWAY
NETWORK SYSTEM,
INCLUDING THE
REHABILITATION AND                          61.10              81.65             134%
MAINTENANCE OF THE
LOWER-CLASS HIGHWAY
NETWORK IN PO OR AREA
3. IMPROVE ROAD SAFETY
BY UPGRADING SELECTED
DANGEROUS KEY SECTIONS                        2.10              5.83             278%

OF ROAD NETWORK
4. STRENGTHEN HIGHWAY
MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
OF IMCD THROUGH                               0.80              0.41             51%

TRAINING./1



               Total Baseline Cost         249.80            256.94              103%

Physical Contingencies                    Incl.              Incl.

Price Contingencies                         17.94            Incl.
                Total Project Costs        267.73            256.94              96%
Project Preparation Fund (TCC-4)              1.50*             1.50*
Front-end fee IBRD                            1.00              1.00
        Total Financing Required           268.73            258.04              96%

* Not financed under the loan


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
              Source of Funds         Type of                                    Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing    Estimate        Estimate
                                                  (US$ millions)  (US$ millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                         168.73         143.52          86%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                   100.00         100.00          100%




                                           30

Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Attainment of               Monitoring Indicators                                  Planned    Actual on
Project objectives                                                                 for 2008   Completion
                                                                                   (PAD       (2008)
                                                                                   2002)
Provide a more              ADT on LJH (veh./day)
efficient, safe, and                      Laoyemiao~Xinghe                         6,200      9,966
cost effective                                Xinghe~Jining                        5,900      9,368
transport
infrastructure
                            NH110 AADT on existing class II road
                                          Laoyemiao~Xinghe                         4,200      4,536
                                              Xinghe~Jining                        4,100      4,219
                            NH110 accident rates on existing road
                                          Laoyemiao~Xinghe                         0.059      0.039
                                              Xinghe~Jining                        0.069      0.037
                            Routine maintenance expenditure                        20,000     11,817
                            (million yuan/km)
                            Periodic maintenance (million yuan/km) 600,000                    473,651
                            ADT on road under HNIP (AADT)
                            (1) Bailinmiao-Xilamuren                               1,300      1,521
                            (2) Tumuertai ­ Shangdu                                1,180      1,603
                            (3) Zhuozishan ­ Liangcheng                            1,200      1,223
                            (4) Kebuer ­ Baiyinchagan                              1,070      1,615
                            (5) Xilinhaote ­ Saihantala1                           N/A        1,179
                            Number of roads closed to traffic
                            (1) Bailinmiao-Xilamuren                               0          0
                            (2) Tumuertai ­ Shangdu                                0          0
                            (3) Zhuozishan ­ Liangcheng                            0          0
                            (4) Kebuer ­ Baiyinchagan                              0          0
                            (5) Xilinhaote ­ Saihantala1                           N/A        0
                            Tonnage of good transported to coastal                 7,227      6,463
                            provinces (100t/yr)
                            Average GDP in the project affected                    19,280     17,741
                            areas


                                                                                   Planned for Actual on
                                                                                   2008 (PAD   Completion
                                                                                   2002)       (2008)
% of civil works completed on LJH                                                  100%        100%
% of highways improve/rehabilitated under HNIP                                     100%        100%
Highway safety: % of improved black spots                                          100%        100%
Number of person-month of completed training (%)                                   100%        100%
% of road under maintenance by contract (TTC 4)                                    100%        100%



1The Xilinhaote-Saihantala road has replaced the original selected Huade-Anye road




                                                           31

     Part A: Highway Capacity Extension (PAD estimate US$185.79 million including
     contingencies, ICR actual US$169.05 million)

     The construction of the 89.3-km Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (LJH) has been designed as a
     dual lanes expressway. Work started in April 2003 and was substantially completed on
     September 2005 or about 13 months before the scheduled October 2006 initial operation
     date.

     The quality of the Highway is considered very good despite various unfavorable
     geological conditions met during the construction. Taking over inspection organized by
     IMCD was completed on October 2005 with an excellent score of 95.7 out of 100.

     Unfavorable geological conditions (slope stability), poor weather conditions (high water
     level in wetlands areas) and changes in original design standards to improve the quality of
     works have resulted in significant work variations during construction of the LJH (see
     Annex 2). A total of 488 variation orders totaling US$50.53 million (RMBY 418.16
     million) were processed. Final cost increases for the six civil work contracts ranged from
     23 to 35%. Final cost of LJH civil works was US$152.millions (RMBY 1.260B). Since
     initial contract prices were significantly below initial estimations, the total cost of this
     component was 91% of the PAD estimate.

                             Table: Initial and final contract prices JLH
Contract  Civil works                         Procurement currency      Initial contract Final contract
No.                                           method                         price           price      Variation
JLH 1     JINING-LAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY         ICB         USD               19,261,962      24,960,823      30%
                                                          CNY             159,404,937      206,566,619      30%
JLH 2     LAOYEMIAO-JINING EXPRESSWAY         ICB         USD               18,111,258      23,294,707      29%
                                                          CNY             149,882,134      192,778,450      29%
JLH 3     JINING-LAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY         ICB         USD               17,882,487      22,562,766      26%
                                                          CNY             147,988,902      186,721,179      26%
JLH 4     JINING-LAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY         ICB         USD               20,108,304      27,121,647      35%
                                                          CNY             166,408,953      224,448,807      35%
JLH 5     JINING-LAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY         ICB         USD               22,319,296      29,361,545      32%
                                                          CNY             184,706,310      242,985,379      32%
JLH 6     LAOYEMIAO-JINING     EXPRESSWAY     ICB         USD
          CIVIL WORKS                                                       20,362,240      24,989,023      23%
                                                          CNY             168,510,433      206,799,994      23%
Total     JINING-LAOYEMIAO EXPRESSWAY                     Total USD       118,045,548      152,290,511      29%
                                                          Total RMBY      976,901,669    1,260,300,428      29%


     Major reasons of cost increase included: i) improvement of original design during
     construction to ensure the work quality; ii) design change during construction for
     unfavorable geological conditions; iii) increase of work quantities due to re-measurement;
     iv) more stringent specifications (crushed stones) for pavement base course and subbase;
     v) greening slope protection using new techniques; vi) change of material borrow sites;
     vii) design change for road median (greening replaced by anti-glare fences); viii) cost
     increase due to price escalation; ix) change of construction method; and x) removal of
     cultural relics in contract 5.

     In addition to completing this missing link of the NTHS, and reducing travel time by
     about 41 % (or about 38 minutes), the LJH has contributed to accelerate economic growth
     and improved safety in the transport corridor. As shown in the following table, GDP were
     in line with targeted values and average GDP increase was 1.72 time higher following the
     highway opening in 2005.




                                                  32

                             Table: GDP Project affected area (Million RMBY)
Year                                   2001 2002    2003    2004      2005   2006   2007    2008

PAD targets                            9100                 10290            14410          16280

GDP                                    9100 9464    9843    10335     12195  13415  15427   17741

GDP vs PAD targets                     100%                 100%             93%            109%

% increase                                  4.0%    4.0%    5.0%      18.0%  10.0%  15.0%   15.0%

Average increase before/after LJH                         7.8%                       13.3%

Ratio increases before/after                                           1.72


Another economic indicator used for this area is the amount of goods shipped by road to
Beijing and Tianjin Ports on China's east coast. Results for the project period show a
double digit increase year-over-year (except for 2006) between 2001 to 2008 from 2.35 to
6.46 million tons. Average increase was 17.3% between 2001 and 2005 and 13.3%
between 2006 and 2008.

Traffic accidents by km were 34 to 46% below project targeted values for 2008.

The NH110 was closed for major rehabilitation in 2006 and 2007. In 2008, total corridor
traffic was 36 to 39% higher than predicted. Diversion rate from NH110 to LJH was
higher than anticipated (69%) with about the expected traffic volume (4,219-4,536)
remaining on NH110 and most of the additional traffic increase being diverted to the LJH.
AADT on LJH was 59 to 61% above targeted values.

                                            AADT Results
                                Years 2001  2002    2003   2004     2005   2006   2007   2008
            PAD targets
LJH LX                                                                      5700          6200
LJH XJ                                                                      5500          5900
NH110 LX                               6600                  8300           4000          4200
NH110 XJ                               6500                  8200           3900          4100

            Actual values
LJH LX                                                                      9305   9771   9966
LJH XJ                                                                      8747   9184   9368
NH110 LX                               6600  7062    7556    8306    4404     n/a    n/a  4536
NH110 XJ                               6500  7035    7719    8177    4136     n/a    n/a  4219

  Total Corridor (TC) traffic (PAD)
LJ                                     6600                  8300           9700          10400
XJ                                     6500                  8200           9400          10000

 Total Corridor (TC) traffic (Actual)
LJ                                     6600  7062    7556    8306    4404   9305   9771   14502
XL                                     6500  7035    7719    8177    4136   8747   9184   13587
            Variation
           PAD vs Actual
LJH LX                                                                      63%            61%
LJH XJ                                                                      59%            59%
NH110 LX                                 0%                    0%          -100%            8%

NH110 XJ                                 0%                    0%          -100%            3%
         PAD TC vs Actual
LJ                                       0%                    0%            -4%           39%
XJ                                       0%                    0%            -7%           36%

    Diversion from NH110 to LJH
LX                                                                                         69%
XJ                                                                                         69%




                                               33

Five highway maintenance and two laboratory equipments packages were also procured
under this component totaling US$4.05 million.

Construction supervision under local engineering firms was supported by an international
consultant firm, Italconsult for US$0.78 million. Four consulting staff were relocated to
the construction site providing services for a total of 45 person-months. It was found that
international consultant provides good project management and quality control support but
lack sufficient knowledge of Chinese standards and technical challenges.

A total of US$6.80 million was also spent on land acquisition and related resettlement
activities.

Part B: Highway Network Improvement Program (HNIP) for Poverty Areas (PAD
estimate US$61.10 million including contingencies, ICR actual US$81.65 million)

Under the HNIP component five road sections were selected to be financed under the
project. These road sections provide poor counties and townships with good access to
other villages and to provincial and national highway systems.

The initial selected Class II road from Huade-Anye, 85 km, was replaced with the 350 km
Saihantala-Xilinhaote Class II road. This change was due to a change in local government
priority and approved by a loan amendment in February 2004, bringing the total program
length for this component to 664 km.

Five road sections were selected for improvement on the basis of criteria such as: poverty,
high accident rate and engineering classification criteria. Work started in June 2002 and
all the road sections were substantially completed with take over acceptance being carried
out by the end of 2005. A total of 15 contracts were procured to rehabilitate or improve
664 km of local roads for a total of US$81.65 million.

Final costs for the five roads varied, with final contract prices between -21% and +39% of
initial contract prices. Final cost of HNIP civil works was US$81.6 millions. The total cost
of this component was 134% of the PAD estimate. The following table shows final cost
and variations for each contract packages.

                           Table: Initial and final contract prices HNIP

                                   Contract  Initial Contract                     Percentage of   Average
           Road Section             No.       Price (RMB)      Final Cost (RMB) Increase/Decrease   %

                                    BX1         17 739 906        14 195 342        -19,98%
     Bailingmiao - Xilamuren        BX2         23 032 948        20 424 601        -11,32%
        (98.6 km, Class III)        BX3         14 977 898        11 086 104        -25,98%       -21%
                                    BX4         8 826 259          5 544 580        -37,18%
       Tumuertai-Shangdu            TS5         20 075 922        17 283 317        -13,91%
        (53.9 km, Class III)        TS6         25 295 269        26 519 939         4,84%         -3%
      Kebuer -Baiyinchagan          BK7         28 518 444        31 413 288         10,15%
       (109.2 km, Class III)        BK8         17 030 937        19 591 032         15,03%
                                    BK9         21 784 192        25 420 273         16,69%        15%
     Zhuozishan - Liangcheng       ZZ-LC15      28 183 228        42 207 307         49,80%
        (52.8 km, Class III)       ZZ-LC16      21 388 462        26 588 760         24,31%        39%
                                    SX10        73 586 843        79 603 557         8,18%
   NEW - Saihantala-Xilinhaote      SX11        78 835 786        86 859 344         10,18%
        (349.5 km, Class II)        SX12        71 172 561        81 176 268         14,06%
                                    SX13        73 437 874        84 143 992         14,58%        10%
                    Total : 664 km   15        523 886 529        572 057 704        9,19%




                                                  34

                        Total (US$)             74,776,838 $        81,652,541.25 $


Traffic volumes on all roads exceeded PAD targeted values. The target value used for the
Bailingmiao ­ Xilamuren road had to be reduced in half to reflect actual condition (single
direction).

The number of days roads closed to traffic for various reasons (accident, snow, etc.) was
significantly reduced from a total of 45 days in 2001(for the 5 project roads) to 5 days in
2007. The following table shows reduction in road closure once rehabilitation works were
completed.

                                     Table: Road closed to traffic
                                         Road closed to traffic
                Years               2001   2002     2003    2004 2005 2006 2007               2008
             PAD targets

     Bailinmiao-Xilamuren               9                        3

     Tumuertai-Shangdu                 12                        5

     Kebuer-Baiyinchagan                8                        4

     Zuozishan-Liangcheng              12                        3
     Xilinhaote-Saihantala
     (new)                         n/a                      n/a             n/a              n/a

            Actual values

     Bailinmiao-Xilamuren              12       8         9      1       1        1       1         0

     Tumuertai-Shangdu                  9       5         7      0       0        1       0         0

     Kebuer-Baiyinchagan                6       7         5      1       1        1       1         0

     Zuozishan-Liangcheng              10       9         8      4       2        2       2         0
     Xilinhaote-Saihantala
     (new)                              8       7         5      3       1        1       1         0


Part C: Road Safety Improvement (PAD estimate US$2.10Million including
contingencies, ICR actual US$5.83Million)

The highway safety improvement program consisted of treatment of 15 selected black
spots on the provincial highway network in Inner Mongolia in a three year program.

The treatments included improvement in traffic management (traffic sign boards, road
marketing etc.) and physical improvement/rehabilitation of engineering aspects. Ten out
of the 15 projects were related to low standard bridges (low capacity, narrow pavement),
three projects were related to improving road conditions (low radius curves, insufficient
sight distance, etc) and the remaining two projects were focused on protection works for
heavy winter conditions. In the 5 years before appraisal in 2002 a total of 85 accidents
had occurred at these various sites which ended up taking the lives of 35 people and
injuring more than 63 others. Monitoring of the black spots treated sites is being
conducted and a single accidents with vehicle damages only (VD)) was reported as of
May 2007.

                                       Table: black spots, IST
                                                            Investme
                                                               nt
                                                            (Million                                     Accidents /
 No          Project            Road     Location    Year   RMBY)      NATURE OF BS and treatments       Casualties
         Guasanzi Bridge                                              Low capacity and narrow bridge.  2 accidents :2
 1     rehabilitation project   NH303    Chifeng     2003     1,37    Bridge often submerged. Bridge   fatalities




                                                   35

                                                                    rehabilitation

                                                                    Slippery road, snow accumulation
       Snow protection wall                                         on road, windy area, maintenance
 2             project          NH303    Chifeng      2004    2,16  intensive, 18 snow walls built        Occasionally
      Tianshan Dong bridge                                          Bridge in poor condition. Several     6 accidents
 3     rehabilitation project   NH303    Chifeng      2004    3,44  pedestrians. Bridge rehabilitation    with 2 injured

       Public railway cross                                         Sharp curve on at grade rail          3 accidents : 4
       section rehabilitation                                       intersection. Train collision with    fatalities and 1
 4             project          NH303    Chifeng      2004    3,34  road users. Lack of signals           injured
       Shaqintala to Daban
     road safety improvement                                        Insufficient sight distance. Slippery 4 accidents : 8
 5             project          NH303    Chifeng      2005    5,14  road in winter conditions             fatalities
                                                                    Bridge rehabilitation. Warning        22 accidents: 8
        Xi Shibatai Bridge                                          signs. Below standards curves(low     fatalities and 21
 6     rehabilitation project   PH102  Wulanchabu     2003    4,2   radius)                               injured


                                                                                                          19 accidents: 6
        Liukemiao Bridge                                            Bridge rehabilitation, warning signs, fatalities and 12
 7     rehabilitation project   PH102  Wulanchabu     2003    0,71  below standards curves                injured
         Bancheng bridge,
        bridge(dangerous
        bridge)black spots                                          Low capacity and narrow bridge.       4 accidents : 3
 8     improvement project      PH102  Wulanchabu     2005    3,57  Bridge rehabilitation                 injured
             Yongxing
        bridge(dangerous
        bridge)black spots                                          Low capacity and narrow bridge.       5 accidents : 3
 9     improvement project      PH102  Wulanchabu     2005    3,81  Bridge rehabilitation                 injured
                                                                    Sharp curve in a cut area.            6 accidents: 2
       Slide slope treatment                                        Insufficient sight distance. Lack of  fatalities and 5
10             project           G109   Eerduosi      2004    1,4   warning signs.                        injured


                                                                                                          5 accidents: 2
      Visibility improvement                                        Steep slopes and sharp curves.        fatalities and 7
11           measures            G109   Eerduosi      2005    1,33  Insufficient sight distance.          injured
                                                                                                          1 accidents : 1
      Santaiji large bridge and                                                                           fatalities, 7
12       approach project       NH109   Eerduosi      2005    5,73  Submerge bridge pavement              injured
      Bacha dangerous bridge                                        Damaged bridge and culverts...        3 accidents
13     rehabilitation project   NH109   Eeerduosi     2005    1,62  Submerged by water.                   with VDO
        Wuchuan-Guyang-
      Hailiutu highway bridge                                                                             5 accidents :2
14     rehabilitation project   PH311   Bayannaoer    2005     2,1  Bridge submerged                      injured
                                                                    Slippery road, snow accumulation
         Xilinguole snow                Xiliniguole                 on road, windy area, maintenance
15    protection wall project   NH303     league      2003    0,95  intensive, 19 snow walls built        None
                               TOTAL RMBY (Millions):        40,87
                                       Total US$ (Millions): 5.83 $


Considering the success of this component IMCD is contemplating creating a black spot
(BS) treatment program as an extension of the project which will prioritize sites based on
several criteria. Several hundreds sites will be treated of which at least 60 additional BS
sites were identified in critical areas.

Part D: Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) (PAD estimate US$0.80
million including contingencies, ICR actual US$0.41 million)

D.1 Training

Domestic training was completed in April 2005 with a total of 290 persons who had
received training in more than 64 persons-month of training on various subjects such as




                                                    36

asphalt pavement, modified bitumen, quality control, pavement distress, pavement design,
E&M and telecommunications, etc.

The staff overseas training plan component called for 67 persons and 1530 persons-
month divided in two yearly programs (2003 and 2004). Both programs are completed.
Details are shown in the following table.

                                Table: Overseas training program
                                                  Pers-             Planned
        Overseas 2003 program      Pers.  Days    days   Country      cost        Final Cost


        Staff management and
     1 survey                       6     15       90     Canada    $  32 000    $      27 750
        Highway financing
     2 methods and management       6     15       90      USA      $  27 000    $      25 636

     3 Environmental protection     8     15      120     Europe    $  32 000    $      39 600
        Construction financial
     4 management                   5     30      150   USA/Canada  $  48 000    $      30 525

     5 Construction management      8     30      240     Europe    $  64 000    $      54 000


                                                  Pers-             Planned
        Overseas 2004 program      Pers.  Days    days   Country      cost        Final Cost


        Highway Network
     1 Planning                     6     15       90      USA      $  27 000    $      27 000
        Human ressources
     2 development                  6     15       90      USA      $  27 000    $      27 000
        Highway Bridge Design
     3 and Construction             8     30      240    Australia  $  64 000    $      64 000
        Highway Environment
     4 Protection                   6     30      180   USA/Canada  $  48 000    $      48 000
        Construction Management
     5 Systems                      8     30      240     Europe    $  64 000    $      64 000

                             Total  67    225     1530             $ 433 000     $    407 511


Both the domestic and overseas training were successfully completed in 2005 with a total
of 64 and 47 persons-months respectively. Overseas training reports were prepared by
trainees and submitted to the Science and Education division of IMCD Human Resources
department for potential development opportunities and dissemination.         Trainees are
expected to disseminate finding at domestic seminars and workshops and some are
maintaining contact with specialist abroad.

D.2. Technical assistance

Pavement Design Study ­ This study conducted under the IM Highway Design and
Research Institute from 2004 to 2007 was to test various road structure, material and
construction methods to address pavement cracks reflexion, a frequent problem in China
and other northern countries. Several techniques were successful in reducing cracks while
others were inconclusive because of variations in local subgrade / drainage conditions.
All the techniques were economically viable. The study results were publicized in other
northern Chinese provinces via MOC's Research Institute and workshops.

Civil works contracts for the pilot maintenance-by-contract. --An output based
maintenance by contract approach was tested to explore new ways in doing road
maintenance. A 3 year - 100km road maintenance package (PH101 - km 70 to 170 ­




                                              37

Siziwang Banner ­ initially constructed between 1991-95) was prepared which included
the rehabilitation of 40 km and maintenance of the remaining 60km during the first year.

The 40 km rehabilitation was completed between August 2003 and August 2004, while
maintenance activities started in September 2004.

Contractual maintenance requirements were based on MOF Highway Maintenance
Technical Specifications. Quality of both the rehabilitation and maintenance activities
were rated high. Maintenance-by-contract costs were 5000 RMBY/km higher than by
forced account at 18000 RMBY/km, however part of this increase is related to the existing
condition of the road which offered less protection to natural disaster and is more
maintenance intensive. The contractor was also ill equipped to face the unusually severe
snow storm that hit China in the 2007-08 winters and the snow removal cost were 20%
higher than in adjacent road sections.

In the evaluation of the contractor's performance by the Ulanchabu prefecture in 2005, the
road section evaluated under the pilot program was ranked number one with a score of 91
out of 100, in terms of road condition and maintenance management.

IMCD is currently exploring various ways to conduct road maintenance and planning to
move from forced account maintenance to performance base approach in areas were there
is sufficient private competition for bids which is not the current situation in several low
populated area in IM.

With routine and periodical maintenance budget per km increasing yearly at an average
rate of 10,2 and 5% respectively in the last 6 years (2001 to 2007), IMCD is falling behind
in meeting the 2008 PAD targets for routine and periodical maintenance budget. Using
the average increase would put the routine and periodical maintenance budget respectively
at 40 and 20% below targeted values for 2008.




                                             38

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

At project appraisal, the economic analysis comprised evaluation of the two major
components of the project: (a) the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway (LJH), with the two
sections Jining-Xinghe (JX) and Xinghe-Laoyemiao (XL); and (b) upgrade and
improvement of five rural roads (338 km). During the project implementation, one of the
original selected rural roads (Huade-Anye) was replaced with the 350 km Saihantala-
Xilinhaote road.

The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted operating data on traffic, Road User
Costs savings (transport user benefits comparing the old and new roads), and project
economic cost. Both costs and benefits reflect December 2007 prices.


Traffic

Traffic on the LJH

The traffic volume on the Laoyemiao-Jining Highway is much higher than expected at
appraisal. The LJH opened to traffic in September 2005. In 2006 and 2008 traffic volumes
were about 160% of the PAD's estimates for both of the two highway sections Jining-
Xinghe and Xinghe-Laoyemiao (see figure).

                                                Figure: Motorized Vehicles/day LJH

                                                  Motorized Vehicles/day, Jining-Xinghe


                                             35000
                                             30000                                     Old NH110 JX
                                yad          25000                                     JLH - JX - ICR
                                             20000
                                   es/                                                 Total Corridor ICR
                                      cliheV 15000
                                             10000                                     Total Corridor PAD
                                              5000                                     JLH - JX - PAD
                                                 0
                                                    1     2     3     4      5

                                                              Year



                                                  Motorized Vehicles/day, Xinghe-Laoyemiao


                                            40000
                    yad                     30000                                     Old NH110 XL
                       es/                  20000
                          cliheV                                                      JLH - XL - ICR

                                            10000                                     Total Corridor ICR

                                                0                                     Total Corridor PAD

                                                  2006  2007  2008   2015    2025     JLH XL PAD

                                                              year




                                                                  39

The large increase in traffic volume on the JLH is mainly due to a large jump in traffic
volume immediately after the opening of the road in 2006. This large jump contributed to
a high average annual growth rate on the JLH: average annual traffic growth rate for the
total corridor (the highway and the parallel NH110) for 2002-2008 is estimated to be 13%
for the Laoyemiao-Xinghe section and 12% for the Jining-Xinghe section. This growth
rate is much higher than the estimated average annual traffic growth of 6% during 2006-
2015 at appraisal stage.

About 69% of the traffic volumes on the LJH corridor diverted from the NH110, and
possible routes further away, to the LJH. The existing road NH110, which runs parallel to
LJH, was closed to traffic for rehabilitation from September 2005 and opened again in
2008. It is estimated that 69% of the total traffic on the Laoyemiao-Xinghe corridor uses
the LJH and diverted from the NH110 to the new expressway. This percentage might be
lower as traffic from other routes further away, e.g. GZ40, might be diverted to the
expressway as well. However, precise data is not available.

The annual long-term traffic growth rate is estimated to be 13.0% for 2006-2015 on both
highway sections (see table below). This growth is estimated using the 2006 traffic
volumes and the diversion rate of 69%. Although this percentage would be in line with the
growth rate of the total corridor over the past years, it seems high for the long-term period.
For this reason, this analysis has used a growth rate of 10% for 2008-2015, which is in
line with the average economic growth of 10.3% in China from 2002-2007. For the
sensitivity analysis of the Economic Internal Rate of Return, the average annual traffic
growth rate of 6% has been used.

The expressway corridor traffic is presented in the tables below, with the values estimated
at appraisal and those assumed for the economic analysis of the ICR.

            Table: Number of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2006-2025) JLH
             PAD                                          ICR
  JLH        Old         JLH       Total      Diversi     Old        JLH ­      Total     Diversi
 Jining ­    NH110       JX                   on          NH110      JX                   on
 Xinghe      JX                                           JX                              ratio

     2006        3,947     5,598      9,545        0.59           0     8,747     8,747       N/A
     2007         N/A      N/A        N/A          N/A            0     9,184     9,184       N/A
    20082         N/A      N/A        N/A          N/A       4,219      9,368    13,587       0.69
     2015        5,800   10,131     15,931         0.64      4,203    15,656     19,859       0.79
     2025        7,375   16,071     23,446         0.69      6,281    23,399     29,680       0.79
 2006-          4.37%     6.81%      5.86%         N/A         N/A     6.68%     9.54%       N/A
 2015
 2015-          2.43%     4.72%      3.94%         N/A       4.10%     4.10%     4.10%       N/A
 2025




2Traffic volumes in 2008 are based on an average from January to March, 2008




                                              40

              PAD                                     ICR
             Old         JLH       Total      Diver   Old      JLH        Total     Diversio
             NH110       XL                   sion    NH110    XL                   n
             XL                               ratio   XL                            ratio

      2006      4,031      5,782     9,813      0.59        0     9,305    9,305         N/A
      2007        N/A      N/A        N/A       N/A         0     9,771    9,771         N/A
     20081        N/A      N/A        N/A       N/A      4536      9966    14502         0.69
      2015      6,110    10,795     16,905      0.64     5826    16672     22498         0.74
      2025      8,042    17,729     25,771      0.69     7126    24916     32042         0.78
 2006-         4.73%      7.18%     6.23%       N/A       N/A    6.69% 10.31%            N/A
 2015
 2015-         2.79%      5.09%     4.31%       N/A     2.03%    4.10%     3.60%         N/A
 2025
Sources: IMCD and the Bank staff

Traffic on the HNIP

The five improved rural roads comprise the Bailinmiao-Xilamuren and the Tumuertai-
Shangdu road, both opened in 2003; the Kebuer-Baiyinchagan road, opened in 2004; and
the Zuozishan-Liangcheng and Xilinhaote-Saihantala, both opened in 2005. One of the
original selected roads (Huade-Anye, 85 km) was replaced with the 350 km Saihantala-
Xilinhaote road. All roads were upgraded to Class III roads, except the Saihantala-
Xilinhaote road that was upgraded to a Class II road.

The traffic volume for the five roads is higher than estimated at appraisal stage. Based on
2006 traffic data, the average traffic for the four new roads were about 134% of the PAD's
estimates, ranging from 103% to 141%. The average annual traffic growth rate on the new
roads in 2006-2008, grew at an annual rate of 4.7%. Considering the current growth rates
on the new roads, the long term traffic projection for 2006-2015 is estimated to be 6% (see
table below).

The HNIP traffic is presented in the following table, with the values estimated at appraisal
and those assumed for the economic analysis of the ICR.

          Table: Number Of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2006-2025), HNIP
                ICR
                Bailinmiao-     Tumuertai-      Zhuozishan- Kebuer-            Xilinhaote-
                Xilamuren       Shangdu         Liangchen      Baiyinchagan Saihantala
        2006            1343            1428            1141            1452          2081
        2007            1477            1556            1187            1568          2289
        2008            1521            1603            1223            1615          2358
        2015            2269            2413            1927            2453          3516
        2025            4063            4321            3452            4393          6296
  2006-2015            6.00%           5.60%          6.00%            6.00%         6.00%
  2015-2025            6.00%           6.00%          6.00%            6.00%         6.00%
Sources: IMCD and the Bank staff




                                               41

Road User Costs

The Road User Costs (RUC) savings compares the transport user benefits on the old and
new road for different vehicle type. The RUC savings consists of i) time and ii) vehicle
operation costs. The time savings are mainly based on the difference in road length
between the old and new road and traffic volume, i.e. high traffic volumes can reduce
speed and increase travel time. The vehicle operation costs savings are mainly based on
savings in fuel consumption, depreciation, vehicle maintenance costs, etc, which also
depend on the road length, road conditions, and traffic volume and composition. With help
of the HMD-4 model, the savings on the old and new road are calculated for seven vehicle
types: small bus, medium bus, big bus, small truck, medium truck, big truck, and trailer.

On average, about 80% of the road user costs are realized by savings in vehicle operation
costs while using the new road and about 20% by time savings.

Project Costs

The project economic costs consist of costs for civil works, routine maintenance costs, and
for the LJH management costs. The civil works have a large impact on the final project
costs and costs of the civil works both the LJH and HNIP component are given below:

                            Table: Project costs LJH and HNIP
                             Project costs ­ Civil Works (USD)
                                                  ICR                 PAD
                        LJH                 152,290,510.86       174,600,000
                       HNIP                  69,125,549.79        61,100,000
                     TOTAL                  221,416,060.65       235,700,000


Economic Internal Rate of Return

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the JLH and the rural road is based on the
number above and higher then estimated at appraisal stage. The EIRR for the LJH is
estimated at 21.8%, compared to the PAD estimate of 15.1%. The EIRR for the HNIP
component is estimated at 41.3%, with values ranging from 31.4% and 55.0%. This
compared to an EIRR value in the PAD of 30.2%, ranging from 19.3% and 37.8% at
appraisal. Table 3.4 summarizes the results of the economic analysis.

The combined EIRR for the entire project are estimated to be 29.7%, compared to an
EIRR at appraisal of 17.9%. The increase in the EIRR is mainly because of the much
higher than estimated traffic volumes on both sections of the Expressway as well as on the
rural roads and the lower than estimated (at appraisal) project costs.

The results of the EIRR for the main highways and the rural roads under the HNIP,
compared to the PAD, are summarized in the following table.

                                 Table: EIRR (in %)
                                            EIRR
                                                  ICR            PAD
                             LJH                21.8%           15.1%
                       Jining ­ Xinghe          23.2%           14.1%




                                             42

                     Xinghe-Laoyemiao           18.5%          17.6%
                            HNIP                41.3%          30.2%
                    Bailinmiao-Xilamuren        55.0%          37.8%
                    Tumuertai ­ Shangdu         46.3%          34.6%
                 Zhuozishan ­ Liangcheng        31.4%          33.4%
                   Kebuer ­ Baiyinchagan        42.7%          33.5%
                   Xilinhaote - Saihantala      50.8%           N/A
                           TOTAL                29.7%          17.9%

In the PAD, the EIRR of the Jining-Xinghe section is lower than the Xinghe-Laoyemiao
section, in contrary to the ICR. This difference is due to the higher than expected
construction costs of the Xinghe-Laoyemiao section in relation to the Jining-Xinghe
section.

When using the annual average traffic growth of 6% for LJH in 2008-2015, as estimated
during appraisal, an EIRR of 20.0% is found. This result combines the EIRR of 24.8% for
the Xinghe-Laoyemiao and 20.6% for the Xinghe-Laoyemiao section. These results
confirm the robustness of the EIRR for the LJH.

Financial Rate of Return

The financial rate of return is focused on the LJH because the LJH alone constitutes about
65% of the total project cost and there is no toll for the roads under the HNIP. The JLH
opened to traffic on September 2005, with the Ulanchabu Sub-Company of Inner
Mongolia High Grade Highway Construction and Development Company Ltd in charge of
operation, toll collection and maintenance of the expressway. The main income is the tolls
charged to the road users. At the moment toll rates for the LJH are given in the table
below.

                              Table: Toll standard (yuan/km)
Item          Small      Medium     Big bus    Small       Medium     Big         Trailer
              bus        bus                   truck       truck      truck
Open 2005 0.30           0.45       0.60       0.30        0.55       0.90        1.20
2006-2010     0.36       0.54       0.72       0.36        0.66       1.08        1.44
2011-2015     0.43       0.65       0.86       0.43        0.79       1.30        1.73
2016-2020     0.52       0.78       1.04       0.52        0.95       1.56        2.07

The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) to the capital investments is estimated to be
17.8%. This value is higher than the appraisal estimate of 5.8%. The financial rate of
return is based on the construction costs of the LJH, the maintenance costs, toll revenues,
and toll collection costs. The financial profitability of the LJH is better than the PAD's
estimates due to the much higher than expected total operating revenues: operating
revenues are much larger than expected as traffic has exceeded about 60% of the estimate
at appraisal. Other possible costs like analysis of the costs of financing and operational
costs like incidence response are not known and not taken into account.

                                    Table: FIRR (in %)
                                            ICR      PAD
                                   LJH     17.8%     5,8%
                                  Sources: IMCD, NCD, GPCD and the Bank staff




                                             43

When calculating the FIRR based on the original 6% average annual traffic growth rate at
appraisal, the FIRR is estimated to be 15.6%. This shows the robustness of the financial
evaluation.

Fiscal Impact of the Investment

For the non-revenue-earning entities (the roads under the HNIP), the long-term
sustainability depends on the resource allocated for the maintenance of these non-tolled
roads. Financial records indicate that the total routine maintenance required for the HNIP
roads would constitute only a small fraction of the government's total annual maintenance
budget (little more than 1%, Table 3.7). These low ratios represent that the risk pertaining
to the availability of funds for the maintenance of HNIP is very modest. However, actual
data shows that the current maintenance budget is lower than estimated, thus this is a point
of concern.

                        Table: HNIP ­ Road Maintenance budget
                HNIP                                                  2006
                Total maintenance required for the five
                HNIP local roads (a)                             3,118,000
                Maintenance budget daily maintenance
                local roads (b)                                291,500,000
                ratio (a)/(b)                                        1.07%




                                             44

                                      Table: Income Statement
                              million RMB, year ending December 31

                      2007   2008   2009    2010    2011   2012   2013  2014   2015   2016   2017
Traffic (million
vehicle km            308.01 329.58 352.66 377.36 403.78 432.06 462.32 494.69 529.34 555.33 582.59


Revenue
Tolls                 213.32 228.26 244.25 261.35 279.66 358.62 383.72 410.58 439.32 460.90 582.59
Other
Total                 213.32 228.26 244.25 261.35 279.66 358.62 383.72 410.58 439.32 460.90 582.59
Operation tax
Business tax          10.67  11.42  12.22   13.08   13.99  17.93  19.19  20.53 21.97   23.51 29.13
City tax                0.75  0.80    0.85    0.91   0.97    1.26  1.34  1.44    1.55  1.62    2.04
Edu tax                 0.32  0.34    0.36    0.38   0.41    0.54  0.58  0.62   0.67   0.69   0.87
Total                  11.74  12.56  13.43  14.37   15.38  19.73  21.11  22.60  24.19  25.82  32.04
Net income            201.58 215.70 230.81 246.98 264.28 338.89 362.62 387.99 415.14 435.09 550.55

Operating Cost
Wages and benefits      2.52   2.65   2.79    2.93   3.08    3.24  3.41   3.58   3.77   3.96   4.17
Maintenance             9.58  10.07  10.58  11.12   11.69  12.29  12.92  13.58 184.07  14.86  15.62
material supply        23.96  25.16  26.42  27.74   29.12  30.58  32.11  33.71  35.40  37.17  39.03
Management cost         1.51   1.59   1.67    1.76   1.86    1.95  2.06  2.17    2.28  2.40    2.53
Others                  3.83  4.02    4.22    4.43   4.66    4.89  5.13  5.39    5.66   5.94   6.24
Total working cost     41.40  43.49  45.68  47.99   50.41  52.95  55.63  58.43 231.18  64.34  67.58
Depreciation           48.18  48.18  48.19  48.26   48.33  48.40  48.47  48.54 49.76   49.85 50.01
Total operation cost   89.58  91.67  93.87  96.25   98.74 101.35 104.10 106.97 280.94 114.18 117.59

Operation benefit     112.00 124.03 136.94 150.73 165.54 237.54 258.52 281.02 134.20 320.90 432.96
Financing costs Bank          41.02  39.09  37.05   34.90  32.66  30.30  27.83 25.22   22.48 19.60
Domestic
Other costs (income            5.35   5.35    5.35   5.35    5.35  5.35   5.35   5.35   5.35   5.35
Profits before tax    112.00  77.66  92.50 108.33 125.29 199.53 222.87 247.84 103.63 293.07 408.01
income tax             37.30  25.86  30.80  36.08   41.72  66.44  74.22  82.53  34.51  97.59 135.87

Net profit             74.70  51.80  61.70  72.26   83.57 133.08 148.65 165.31 69.12 195.48 272.14
Sources: IMCD




                                                 45

                                 Table: Sources and Applications of Funds
                                 million RMB, year ending December 31


                    2004   2005    2006    2007    2008   2009     2010   2011  2012   2013   2014
Sources
Net profits                                74.7    51.8   61.72    72.28  83.6  133.13 148.71 165.39
Depreciation                               48.18  48.18   48.19    48.26  48.33 48.40  48.47  48.54
State allocate      145.6  109.2   72.8    36.4
Province allocate   89.34  68.19   47.03   25.84
Borrow Bank         207.50 166.00 124.50   83.00
          Domestic
              Other
Total               442.44 343.39 244.33  268.12  99.98   109.91  120.54 131.93 181.53 197.18 213.93


Applications
Central government  442.44 343.39 244.33  145.24   1.01    1.06     1.11  1.17   1.23   1.29   1.35
Others
Loan repayment
Bank                                              38.29   40.23    42.26  44.41 46.65  49.01  51.48
Domestic
Fund variation                                     3.67    3.92     4.19  4.48  19.36   6.15   6.59
Total               442.44 343.39 244.33  145.24  35.63   37.37    39.18  41.10 28.51  44.15  46.24


Net cash flow                             122.88  64.35   72.55    81.36  90.86 153.04 153.07 167.74
Balance of account                                122.88  187.23  259.78 341.14  432   585.04 738.11
Balance of closing
day                                       122.88  187.23  259.78  341.14 432.00 585.04 738.11 905.85


D/S Cover                                          1.73    1.82     1.92  2.03   2.59   2.75   2.92
Sources: IMCD




                                                   46

                                        Table: Balance Sheet
                               million RMB, year ending December 31


                     2007    2008    2009    2010     2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016
Assets
Fixed assets
Costs               1460.01 1460.10 1460.19 1462.41 1464.75 1467.21 1469.78 1472.48 1509.28 1512.25
DeductDepreciation   92.52   140.7  188.89  237.15   285.49  333.91  382.41   431    480.81  530.71
Net fixed assets    1367.49 1319.40 1271.30 1225.26 1179.26 1133.30 1087.37 1041.48 1028.47  981.54

Current Assets
Inventory             1.07   1.14    1.22     1.31     1.40   1.79    1.92    2.05    2.19    2.30
Collected             0.86   0.86    0.86     0.86     0.86   0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86
Cash                 122.88 187.23  259.78  341.14   432.00  585.04  738.11  905.85  976.34  1169.04
Sub-total            124.81 189.23  261.86  343.31   434.26  587.69  740.89  908.76  979.39  1172.20
Other assets
Total assets        1492.30 1508.63 1533.16 1568.57 1613.52 1720.99 1828.26 1950.24 2007.86 2153.74

Liabilities & Equity
State fund equity    608.97 659.85  720.61    794    878.77  1013.13 1163.13 1329.87 1434.41 1631.71
Loan Bank            830.00 791.71  751.49  709.23   664.82  618.17  569.16  517.68  463.59  406.76
    Domestic
    sub-total        830.00 791.71  751.49  709.23   664.82  618.17  569.16  517.68  463.59  406.76
Current liabilities  53.33   57.07   61.07   65.35    69.93   89.68  95.95   102.68  109.87  115.27
Other liabilities

Total Liabilities &
Equity              1492.30 1508.63 1533.16 1568.57 1613.52 1720.99 1828.26 1950.24 2007.86 2153.74
debtcapital ratio    57.70   54.50   51.00   47.20    43.10   37.90   28.00   24.40   20.00   15.40
paydebt ratio        59/41  56/44   53/47    49/51    46/54  41/59   36/64   32/68   29/71   24/76
Current ratio         2.3     3.3     4.3      5.3     6.2     6.6     7.7     8.9     8.9    10.2
Sources: IMCD




                                                 47

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                          Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Supee Teravaninthorn      Task Team Leader/Sr. Economist  EASTR
Yasuhiro Kawabata         Sr. Highway Engineer            EASTR
Chaohua Zhang             Social/Resettlement Specialist  EASES
Naoya Tsukamoto           Sr. Environmental Engineer      EASES
Han-kang Yen              Economic/Financial Analyst      EASTR
Tony Shen                 Financial Management Specialist EACCF
Bertrand Ah-Sue           Procurement Specialist          EACCF
Dawei Yang                Procurement Specialist          EACCF
Nina Masako Eejima        Counsel                         LEGEA
Clifford Garstang         Counsel/Consultant              LEGEA
Simon Bradbury            Disbursement Specialist         LOAG3
Boping Gao                Highway Engineer                EASTR
Xin Chen                  Program Assistant               EACCF
Maria Luisa Juico         Program Assistant               EASTR

Hernan Levy               Road Maintenance and IST
                          Consultant                      EASTR

         Names                          Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Supervision/ICR
Alain M. Dube          Sr Transport Specialist            EASTE
Simon David Ellis      Sr Transport Specialist            EASTE
Yiren Feng             Environmental Specialist           EASCS
Boping Gao             Consultant                         EASTE
Yi Geng                Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO
Wen Pan                Consultant                         EASTE
Michel Savard          Consultant                         EASTE
Sreypov Tep            Program Assistant                  EACSF
Tess Ortega            Program Assistant                  EASTE
Hongkun Yang           Consultant                         EASCS
Songling Yao           Social Development Specialist      EASCS
Jun Zeng               E T Consultant                     EASCS
Wenlai Zhang           Transport. Specialist              EASCS
Corrina Klijn          Transport Specialist               EASTE




                                      48

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                 US$ Thousands
                              No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                  3.05                   10.28
  FY01                                 27.36                  168.55
  FY02                                 45.57                  203.80
  FY03                                  0.00                    0.00
                       Total:          75.98                  382.63
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                 12.19                   40.56
  FY04                                 17.80                   49.69
  FY05                                  8.75                   21.68
  FY06                                 16.79                   51.45
  FY07                                 14.70                   53.54
  FY08                                  8.74                   52.75
                       Total:          78.97                  269.36




                                  49

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None




                                    50

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None




                                    51

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                People's Republic of China World Bank Financed

                               Inner Mongolia Highway Project




                  Laoyemiao­Jining Expressway


 Project Implementation Summary
                                             Loan No.4663-CHA




          Inner Mongolia LJ Expressway Construction and Management Office

                                                        July 20073




3Though the project closing date was 3/31/2008, in July 2007 all major works had already been completed.




                                                          52

                            Content

1. Background of the project

2. Brief description of the Project objectives and components

3. Assessment of the achievement of Project Development Objective

4. Outcomes of Project components

5. Impact on Institutional Development

6. Sustained achievement of the project

7. Arrangements for Operation and Future Maintenance of the Assets

8. Evaluation of Bank Performance

9. Evaluation of Borrower and Implementing Agencies Performance

10. Lessons Learned




                                53


     1. Background of the project

      World Bank financed Laoyemia-Jining expressway, as one section of national

trunk highway Dandong-Lasha which is one component of "Five horizontal, seven

longitude", is the first passage from Beijing to Inner Mongolia via Heibei Province, and it

is one important external passage and economic trunk line. With the approval of the State

Council and confirmed by National Development and Reform Commission, Laoyemiao-

Jining expressway project has been included into the national construction of "10th Five-

year basic construction program". The construction of the Project has fundamental

functions for the implementation of National West-development strategy, improve the

communications and unity between nationalities. The completion of the project would

have fundamental economic functions for the local economic development, improve the

investment environment in Inner Mongolia, and would play support role for national

trunk highway, and solve the traffic jam in NH110.

     The completion of this highway has greatly shorten the travel time between Beijing

and the places along the project areas, directly improve the capability of logistics,

passengers between project areas and Beijing as well as the nearby ports. Expending the

bottleneck of shipping coal from west to east, and has promote the social economic

development efficiency.

2.      Brief description of the objectives and components of the project

     2.1 Laoyemiao-Jining expressway

ObjectivesProvide efficient transportation basic facilitation to support the social and

economic development in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.




                                             55

      Components of the project: Highway capacity expansionLaoyemiao-Jining four

lanes full closed expressway with the total length of 89.338kmwhich is one section in

Inner Mongolia from national highway Dandong-Lashaaconstruction of 89.338km

expressway from Laoyemiao-Jiningbconstruction of three toll stationsone

service area, one parking area and express management, maintenance facilitationc

toll, monitoring, lightening, and communications facilitation, the supply and installment

of E & M.

      2.2 Highway network improvement program

      Objective: improve the provincial roads of 661km of the 5 roads in the banner and

counties, make them to the road of all-weather, strengthen the communications to the

outside, and promote the local economic development.

      Highway network improvement program is distributed in Baotou city, Wulanchabu

city and Xilinguole League which are poor areas and with lagbehind transportation

conditions. The completion of the project would greatly improve the traffic conditions in

the banners, villages, towns of Baotou, Wulanchabu, and Xilinguole, strengthen the local

transportation capabilities, and spread to the tourism and logistic in the regions nearby.

      Main content of the project

         (1Bailinmiao--Xilamuren 92km class III highway improvement

        2Tumuertai--Shangdu 55km class III highway improvement

        3Kebuer--Baiyinchagan 110km class III highway improvement

        4Zuozi--Liangcheng 53km class III highway improvement




                                             56

        5Saihantala--Xilinhaote 351km class II highway improvement

      2.3 Procurement of equipment

      Objective: the procured equipments are mainly used for Inner Mongolia

Communications Department and its subcoordinates, with the aim to strengthen the

implementation institutions.

      Main usage of the equipment

       Quality control and environment monitoring during construction for high-graded

       highway and its access;

       1           Operation and maintenance of high-grade;

       2           Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region highway network (including other

                   high-grade highways) maintenance;

       3           Institution  strengthening     of   Inner  Mongolia      Communications

                   Department and other related units.

     2.4 Road safety program

      Objective: treatment for the existing 7 highways and 15 black spots including

dangerous bridges, sharp curves, and steep slopes, to reach the objective of improving

traffic condition and reduce the traffic accidents.

      Main content of the Project

      Treatment of 15 black spots including dangerous bridges, sharp curves, and steep

slopes etc. which distributed at 7 provincial highways and national highways at

Xilinguole, Chifeng city, Wulanchabu, Eerduosi and Baotou city.

      2.5 Institution strengthening, staff training and maintenance pilot program




                                               57

   Objective: provide training for the staff of Inner Mongolia Communications

Department and its related units, strengthen their capabilities in high-grade highway

construction supervision, operation, highway investment planning, implementation as

well as the management of each objectives.

   Main content

   1staff training

     Domestic, overseas training and study  highway network plan, project

management, highway operation, highway maintenance, environment protection, land

acquisition and resettlement.

   2Institution strengthening

   (3)   Hardware facilitation strengthen are mainly the procurement of highway

  maintenance equipment for the project, meanwhile provide the necessary supplement

  office equipments and equipments for engineering laboratory, road inspection,

  environment monitoring, etc.

   Pilot Maintenance program see attached report.

   3Assessment of the achievement of Project Development Objective

   From the beginning of the project implementation to now, the project has reached

and exceed the target objective; The quality of the project is fine, and the project is

reasonable, the fund is using is scientific.

   4.Outcomes of the each parts of the Project

   Details see the economic and financial analysis.

   5. Impact to institution development




                                            58

    The implementation of the project has improved the general level of Inner Mongolia

Communications Department in highway planning, design, construction management

and maintenance etc., the hardware equipments have been improved and supplemented.

The theoretical knowledge of the staffs has been enriched. And the management of

highway operation and maintenance has been strengthened to catch the continuous

changing requirement of highway transportation. The comprehensive skills and

qualification of the staffs have been improved with new knowledge, new sense, and

new science.

    6.Sustained achievement of the project

    The economy in Inner Mongolia is continuously development at fast-speed in recent

years. The GDP in the year of 2006 has increased 18.5% than the last year, and the

economic development in the project areas are even more rapidly. The vehicles and the

travel rate is increasing at the 20% in recent years, the traffic volume is increasing at

about 10% in Laoyemiao-Jining Expressway; the economic development and the traffic

volume has formed a fine economic circulation chain which lay stable foundation for

the sustained development of the project.

    7.Capital operation and future arrangement for maintenance

    Details see the economic and financial analysis.

    8.Evaluation of Bank Performance

    During the project preparation period, Bank has send identification mission,

preparation mission, pre-appraisal, and appraisal mission and project launch mission for

site visit; provided the PMO with Procurement Guideline and FIDIC Clauses, reviewed




                                          59

 the Procurement Program, Supervision Consultants Program, Overseas Training

 Program, TOR for Environment Protection Monitoring, TOR for training, and Bidding

 Documents; During the implementation, the Bank has send the supervision mission

 twice a year to construction site, follow the track of the cost, progress, quality control,

 land acquisition and resettlement; especially carefully review the cost, ensure its

 scientific, accurate and timely used.

     The borrowers are satisfied to the performance of Bank staff.

     9.Evaluation of Borrower and Implementation Agencies Performance

     The borrower and implantation agencies could basically apply to the clauses

 scientifically and accurately, and the payment was made timely to the satisfactory of the

 bidders and contractors.

     10. Lessons learned

     The contract clauses of World Bank projects are strict, the arrangement of the cost is

 timely and scientifically. That is why it was accepted to the bidding process

 internationally and popularized to worldwide. However, as the keen competition in

 construction market, some bidders intend to reduce the bidding price to get the contract,

 so there are some losses during the implementation of the details. There are some

 discrepancies due to short period of design and survey. The disbursement process of

 World Bank is quite completed, the fund is found tight during the implementation of

 project which need bid investment.

Attachment:    1. Economic and financial analysis

               2. Project Performance Indicators




                                            60

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                     61

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document
     (No. 23766-CHA), April 30, 2002

  2. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway Project: Loan Agreement (No 4663-
     CHA) between the People's Republic of China and the International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development, August 20, 2002

  3. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway Project: Project Agreement (No
      4663-CHA) between Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and the International
      Bank for Reconstruction and Development, August 20, 2002

  4. The World Bank, Supplemental letter number 1, Financial and economic data,
      August 20, 2002

  5. The World Bank, Supplemental letter number 2, Performance indicators, August
      20, 2002

  6. The World Bank, Back to office reports and Aide-memoires of the Inner Mongolia
      Highway Project from 2002 to 2008

  7. The World Bank, Project Status Report and Implementation Supervision Reports
      for the Inner Mongolia Highway Project from 2002 to 2008

  8. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, Work Progress (monthly and
      quarterly) and Annual Monitoring reports, from 2003 to 2008.

  9. Inner Mongolia Communication Department,         IMAR Black Spots Treatment
      Program ­ Final Report, May 2007

  10. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, IMAR Maintenance by contract
      pilot program, Mid-term and Final report, June 20, 2006 and November 2007

  11. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, Implementation Completion Report
      and Summary, February 2007




                                        62

