Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19796-CHA
CN-PE-56424
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$320 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR
TONGBAI PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT
December 2, 1999
Energy and Mining Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/27/99)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Y 1 = US$0.12
US$1 = Y 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BERI       -   Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power
BOT        -   Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS        -   Country Assistance Strategy
CIF        -   Cost, Insurance, Freight
CQ         -   Review of Consultants' Qualifications
CRISPP     -   China Reform Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
ECEPDI    -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECIDI      -   East China Investigation and Design Institute
DC         -   Direct Contracting
EIA        -   Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP        -   Environmental Management Plan
FIRR       -   Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMIS       -   Financial Management Information System
GAAP       -   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
IAS        -   International Accoumting Standards
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IDC        -   Interest During Construction
IERR       -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
JPEPC      -   Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
LIB        -   Limited International Bidding
MOEP       -   Ministry of Electric: Power
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
PIP        -   Project Implementation Plan
PSP        -   Pumped Storage Project
RAP        -   Resettlement Action Plan
SAA        -   State Audit Administration
SETC       -   State Economic and Trade Commission
SMEPC      -   Shanghai Municipa"l Electric Power Company
SP         -   State Power Corporation
ZPEPC      -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
ZPEPDC    -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Development Company
Vice President       Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director     Yukon Huang
Sector Director      Yoshihiko Sumi
Team Leader          Barry Trembath/Ranjit Lamech



China
Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective ................................................................. 2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B  Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices...................................
C   Project Description  Summary .................................................................                                                   8
1. Project components .................................................................                                                 8
2. Key  policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................9
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 10
D  Project Rationale ..................................................................11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 12
3. Lessons learned  and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .............................                                 ...................... 13
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................. 13
E  Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                       14
1. Economic .................................................................                                                          14
2. Financial .................................................................                                                         15
3. Technical .................................................................                                                         15
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                     16
5. Social ................................................................. 16
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                          16
7. Participatory  approach .................................................................                                           17
F   Sustainability  and  Risks .................................................................                                                    18
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                          18
2. Critical Risks ...........................................................                                                          18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................................................                                          20



G Main Loan Conditions ................................................. 20
H  Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                                      21
I  Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................ 21
Annexes
Annex  1.   Project Design Summary ................................................                                                  22
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description ................................................ 24
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs ................................................                                                  28
Annex 4.   Power Sector Reform  Strategy and Implementation Plan ........................................... 29
Annex 5.   Organization Charts for Construction Management ................................................  45
Annex 6.  Economic Analysis ................................................                                                         48
Annex 7.   Financial Summary ................................................ 52
Annex 8.   Financial Management Assessment ................................................                                          59
Annex 9.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................                                 63
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................ 65
Table B.   ICB  Procurement Schedule .................................................                                            67
Table B 1. Consulting Services Schedule ................................................ 67
Table C.   ICB  Procurement Arrangements                                  .............................................. 68
Table D.   LIB, IS and DC  Procurement Arrangements .................... ............................ 69
Table E.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .                                      ........................................ 70
Table F.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ................................................ 71
Annex  10. Land Acquisition and Resettlement ................................................                                        72
Annex 11. Environmental Summary ................................................                                                     79
Annex  12. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................                                 ............................... 93
Annex  13. Documents in Project File ................................................                                                94
Annex  14. Statement of Loans and Credits ................................................                                           95
Annex 15. Country at a Glance .................................................                                                      98
Map Number IBRD 30534



China
Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date:                      December 2, 1999        Team Leader:             Barry Trembath/Ranjit Lamech
Country Manager/Director:  Yukon Huang              Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID:                CN-PE-56424              Sector:                 Power
Lending Instrument:        Specific Investment Loan   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ ] Credit     [] Grant       [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined       [1 Multicurrency     [XI Single currency
[] Standard Variable   [] Fixed            [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             20
Commitment fee:                0.75%
Service charge:
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
Government
IBRD                                                                     320.0             320.0
IDA
ZPEPC and other equity investors                         92.5              84.3             176.8
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China                 407.3                              407.3
Total:                                                  499.8            404.3             904.1
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Beneficiary: Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    4.3        17.4      36.7       48.2       75.4       86.2        45.9        5.9
Cumulative    4.3        21.7      58.4      106.6      182.0      268.2       314.1      320.0
Project implementation period: 7 years
Expected effectiveness date: May 1, 2000             Expected closing date: December 31, 2007
Implementing agency: Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
Contact person: Mr. Zhao Hubin
Address: 2, Jinzhu Road (South), Hangzhou 310007, China
Tel: 86-571-615-1166          Fax: 86-571-515-3979          E-mail: XISHJ@MAIL.hz.zj.CN
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project has two objectives:
(a)   Increase peaking capacity and improve load following capability and power quality in the
Zhejiang and East China power systems. The construction of a major pumped storage power plant, and
the implementation of an efficient mechanism to price its output in the market will be undertaken to
achieve this objective.
(b)    Improve the operating and invest.ment efficiency in generation by developing and implementing a
competitive generation market in Zhejiang province. An associated objective is to ensure that the market
structure created can easily transition to wholesale competition. The associated sector restructuring,
regulatory capacity building and removal of transmission constraints will be undertaken as part of the
project to achieve this objective.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a)   Improvements in load following capability will be measured by improvements in the Area
Control Error (ACE).
(b)    The efficiency outcomes of the rriarket implementation will be measured by the reduction in the
percentage of capacity contributed by small thermal units. The potential competitiveness of the
generation market will be measured by a reduction in generation concentration (i.e. the capacity
owned/managed by the largest market participant).
Progress will be monitored by the adherence to an agreed implementation schedule for: separating and
corporatizing generation stations; preparation of a market code and commencing market operation; and
establishing a suitable oversight mechanism for market and sector regulation at the provincial level.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107                Date of latest CAS discussion: May 28, 1998
Reducing infrastructure bottlenecks through expansion of power facilities, "capitalizing on major Bank
role in sector in areas where private participation is unlikely for market reasons, while continuing to help
China develop an improved policy framework and institutional capacity that will encourage greater
private sector participation".
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a)    Impediments to Raising Finance for Large Generation and Transmission Projects. Meeting
China's growing electricity demand requires an annual investment of about US$15-20 billion per year
representing additions of about 12 to 15 GW of generation capacity and downstream transmission and
distribution infrastructure. Remarkable progress has been achieved in diversifying financing sources and
involving the private sector. It is worth noting that this has been possible largely owing to a retail tariff
level that on average covers the full costs of supply. There are many privately financed independent
power producers (IPPs) totaling about 11.5 IJW in commercial operation and 14 GW under construction.
There are a number of publicly listed power generation companies in local and intemational stock
markets (four companies totaling about 9 G'W listed in international exchanges and 21 companies listed
locally). Despite the government's efforts to expand private capital for sector investments, there remain
difficulties in financing transmission investrnents and large generation projects - particularly,
hydropower/pumped storage plants which pose particular difficulties for private development. The
impediments to raising capital for large generation and transmission projects are:



Page 3
(i)  Insufficient capital market instruments and development to channel domestic savings into long-
gestation projects and those with very long asset lives. In hydro the risk allocation models do not
support private investment;
(ii) Tariff surcharges which have been a major source of finance for sector expansion have been largely
levied at the local level, leading to inappropriately sized local generation expansion. About half of
the capacity added in recent years is in small inefficient units (100 MW and less).
(iii) Lack of a transparent legal and regulatory system.
(iv) Lack of a commercial framework and physical infrastructure to encourage power trading which
would in turn allow the development of larger, economically sized generating units;
<v/   An investment approval system which favors the development of small size generating units.
(b)    Transmission Bottlenecks. Transmission infrastructure in China has not been adequately
developed to allow for efficient system development and supply cost minimization. Plants are not always
iocated in regions where the overall system cost is minimized- some of the large plants constructed in
areas close to load centers which require the transport of large quantities of coal on an overextended
transport system, were not economically justified. The transmission bottlenecks continue to contribute to
investment inefficiencies (lost economies of scale), location inefficiencies (overburdening of the railway
system), environmental inefficiencies (heavy pollution burden on densely populated areas with limited
local absorption capacity), and operational inefficiencies (uneconomic dispatch, higher losses).
(c)    Inadequate Wholesale Electricity and Transmission Pricing Systems. There are two
significant shortcomings of the wholesale pricing system in the power sector in China. The first relates
to the pricing of wholesale/bulk capacity and energy sales/purchases from generating plants. The second
relates to the inadequate recognition of transmission as a separate service that needs to be separately
accounted for in electricity tariffs. These inadequacies of wholesale electricity pricing are partially
responsible for the inefficient utilization and dispatch of generating capacity. Inefficient resource use
sterns from operation of old and/or small inefficient and therefore higher coal-consumption plants in lieu
of modern, more efficient plants. The non recognition of the importance of transmission service is
reflected in the inability, until recently, of utilities to include costs related to transmission in sales tariffs
and to secure adequate investments for the transmission infrastructure. This is also impeding the
implernentation of the purchasing agency model, and progress towards competition at the generation
.evei.
(d)    Excessively Decentralized Distribution Operations. Electricity distribution, both network and
retailing functions, are highly decentralized activities in China. For example, in Zhejiang Province alone
.here are around 1,600 township and village level distribution operations, 66 county level distribution
entities and 14 municipal power distribution entities. The advantages and disadvantages with the
decentralized nature of distribution operations presents both challenges and opportunities. The
advantages of this decentralization has been: widespread electricity access; consumer tariffs that on
average cover all power supply costs; high bill collection rates and financial stability. The disadvantages
of excessive decentralization has been: high technical losses (reportedly over 20%) and supply
inefficiencies owing to the poor design practice in the low voltage distribution network; tariffs that vary
substantially and in many instances are in excess of economic costs; tendency to rely on locally financed
units which are generally uneconomically sized, inefficient and polluting. Changes in the organization
and incentive structure of distribution operations is necessary to mitigate the large economic losses
stemming from inefficient plants, system losses and the social impacts of ad hoc differences in consumer
tariffs.
(e)    Complicated and Inappropriate Tariff Structures at the Consumer Level. The "new power
new price" policy introduced during the early 1980s, together with legal and illegal surcharges levied at
the provincial and local levels has had the desirable effect of raising overall tariffs to levels approaching
(arid in some areas exceeding) long run marginal cost. However, these policies have left behind a legacy
of consumer tariff structures which are complicated to administer; favor older inefficient industries over



Page 4
newer efficient ones; and unduly discriminate between user categories.
(f)    Unclear Corporate Relationships between Power Sector Entities. Currently power companies
in China operate at three main levels: national, regional and provincial/municipal: (a) the
provincial/municipal power companies are responsible for generation and transmission within a province
or large province-level municipality (e.g. Beijing, Shanghai); (b) the regional power entities hold the
central government ownership rights to, and are responsible for supervision of, several
provincial/municipal power companies, and are also responsible for inter-provincial power transfers; and
(c) the national power entity holds the central government's ownership rights in the regional entities and
is responsible for inter-regional power transfers. However, this multi-layer relationship is not clearly and
transparently reflected in the corporate governance. Commercial and financial transactions are still
carried out according to administrative rules rather than market forces. Unclear ownership rights and
inadequate corporate relationships between different power entities in China impede: (a) the full
corporatization of power entities to meet the requirements of the Company Law; (b) the development of
appropriate govemance at the three corporate levels; and (c) the commercial operations, financial
independence, and profit orientation of the sector entities.
(g)    Excessive Reliance on Coal. China's heavy reliance on coal (especially for power generation) is
expected to continue over the next two to three decades. Total installed capacity at end of 1998 was 273
GW, 76 percent of which is thermal capacity and the rest hydropower (23 percent) and nuclear power
(less than one percent). The existing generation capacity is over-weighted towards base load plant
particularly in coastal provinces where untapped hydropower resources are dwindling, and has, as noted
above, a large proportion of generating capacity in small power plants which are often coal fired.
(h)    Low Efficiency of Electricity Supply and Use. Improvement in energy efficiency in China is
clearly indicated by the sustained low elasticity of demand to GDP growth: 0.86 during 1980-97.
However, the potential for electricity conservation on both the supply and demand sides is still high. The
government is now promoting programs to reduce losses on the supply side and market-based initiatives
to improve electricity use.
Government Strategy. The Government's strategy seeks to implement reforms on multiple fronts. The
main elements of the Govemment's strategy to address the above problems are:
(a) Completely separating generation from transmission and distribution functions. This strategy is
being aggressively implemented in many provinces -- all vertically integrated provincial power
companies have been required to define a strategy to separate generation assets.
(b) Introducing competition at the generation level within provincial power systems, and developing
regional power markets for inter-provincial trade.
(c)  Establishing formal regulatory mechanisms at the Central and Provincial Government levels. This
follows from the abolition of the Ministry oif Electric Power in April 1998, and the transfer of its
government regulation/supervision functions to the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC).
(d)  Developing sound corporate govemance practices for state-owned power corporations and
clarifying the relationships between national, regional and provincial level companies.
(e) Expanding and mainstreaming successfully strategies to raise private capital - including: (i) BOT
projects with full foreign ownership developed through competitive bidding; (ii) joint investment projects
with foreign investors; (iii) domestic and foreign equity listing of power enterprises; and (iv)
securitization of existing generation assets to raise capital from private sources.
(f) Mitigating the environmental impacts of a coal dominated power system by: (i) developing
hydropower and other renewable energy resources, and pumped storage plants in areas where hydro
resources are depleted; (ii) requiring the mandatory retirement of around 10 GW of small inefficient and
polluting coal fired thermal units by year 2000; and (iii) using SO2 emission taxes and requiring flue gas
desulphurization technologies.
(g) Increasing energy supply efficiency by: (i) reducing operating losses in generation, transmission



Page 5
and distribution; and (ii) expanding demand side management through pricing and energy conservation
measures.
(h)  Rationalizing wholesale generation tariffs and transmission tariffs, consistent with the complete
separation generation from the transmission and distribution assets.
(i)  Rationalizing consumer tariffs, including the rolling in of existing surcharges into a unified tariff
structure, and the banning of future surcharges
(j)  Providing a fiscal package of government backed long-term debt to finance distribution investments
to improve the quality of the low voltage network and allow for higher levels of demand.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Status Review in Zhejiang Province           Project Influence on Specific Sector Issue
Sector Issue (a) Impediments to Raising Finance
for Large Generation and Transmission
Projects Zhejiang province has been reasonably    The project directly supports the financing of
successful in financing thermal generation capacity. transmission and generation infrastructure required
There remain financing constraints for       to meet future electricity demand. Private
transmission, pumped storage and distribution  financing for the pumped storage scheme is not
investments. On the generation side the province   feasible in the near future for reasons set out in
has completed the international listing of a thermal  Annex 5.
generating company -- the Zhejiang South East
Electric Power Company. A number of joint-   Eventually with the development of a competitive
venture IPPs are in operation and two foreign  generation market, the price determination
financed IPPs were recently signed. However, a    mechanism will make these small sized units
large proportion of the thermal capacity additions   unattractive and will lead to their gradual phase-
have been small plants. The incentives leading to  out.
small unit sizes being chosen have been recognized
and the province has now: (i) banned new
additions of small sized thermal units; (ii) restricted
them to be used to generate during peak periods;
and (iii) ordered the retirement of small units as
loans are repaid.
Sector Issue (b) Transmission Bottlenecks
ZPEPC has been reasonably successful in      The investment component in the project will ease
expanding its 500 kV network, much of it     transmission constraints that prevent adequate
supported under previous Bank projects. However, transfer of power to load centers, despite the
transmission constraints are still contributing to    availability of generation capacity. In addition,
lower than optimal hours of operation on more  easing these transmission constraints will also
efficient thermal units and the continued use of  facilitate the development of a power market in
more inefficient units that are closer to load  Zhejiang province.
centers. In addition there are circumstances when
load has had to be shed despite the availability of
generating plant to meet this load. In effect the
lack of adequate transmission infrastructure
prevents efficient system expansion and power
market development.
Sector Issue (c) Inadequate Wholesale and
Transmission Pricing Structures
Zhejiang has pioneeredthe implementation of a  The project will support the development of a
two-part generation tariff that has partly addressed   competitive generation market in Zhejiang which



Page 6
Status Review in Zhejiang Province           Project Influence on Specific Sector Issue
the inefficiencies associated with a one-part tariff.  would overcome the key limitations of the
This tariff system and operating rules are referred   Analogue Electricity Market. This will lead to the
to as the Analogue Electricity Market. Howvever,   gradual phase-out of small inefficient plant, and
the continued use of a minimum capacity factor    facilitate the optimal operation and expansion of
benchmark (i.e. 57%) in the Analogue Electricity   the system. In addition, the restructuring of ZPEPC
Market remains a problem to achieving higher  to separate transmission from generation will create
efficiency gains. On the transmission front there is  the framework necessary to identify transmission
no viable means to recognize and recover     costs and investment needs and ensure adequate
transmission costs, which impedes transmission    recovery.
system expansion.
Sector Issue (d) Excessive Decentralizationi of
Distribution Operations
Zhejiang has a very fragmented distribution sector,  Under the project work will be initiated to assess
with 14 municipal (or prefectural) distribution  options for the restructuring distribution operations.
bureaus, 66 county-level power companies, 1,674   The intention of this work is to preserve the
township distribution units and 40,000 village level advantages of the decentralized operations in the
distribution units. The township and village  sector, while implementing incentives that will lead
distribution units are collectively owned and the    to efficient network development and service
rest have differing levels of local, provincial and    delivery. Training programs to improve the
central government ownership. There is a need to  management of these distribution operations will
improve the management and commercial practices also be defined.
of this entities. In addition, there are problems with
the network quality and the maximum demand
capacity of the distribution system.
Sector Issue (e) Complicated and Inappropriate  Under the project, cross subsidies will be phased
Tariff Structures at the Consumer Level      out and structure will be further refined, and tariff
ZPEPC has obtained agreement on a unified tariff  setting principles in competitive market
schedule with provincial regulatory authorities  enviromnent defined.
(pricing commission, and economic and planning
commission). This rolls in all surcharges, has an
average level of 59.5 fen including VAT and
includes minimum cross subsidies, which will be
phased out over three years. The schedule has been
submitted to central government for approval.
Sector Issue (f) Unclear Corporate Relationships
between Power Sector Entities                The institutional components in the project will
Although a number of generating plants that are  make the relationships between generation
partly owned by ZPEPC have been established as   enterprises and the ZPEPC core holding company
independent corporations, there remains tacit  more commercial and transparent. Adequate
control exercised by ZPEPC headquarters which    provisions are expected to be built into the
impedes the development of truly independentl    structures and charters to ensure management
commercial enterprises.                      independence at the generation company level.
Sector Issue (g) Excessive Reliance on Coal
About 83% of the energy generated in Zhejiang  Both the investment and institutional components
comes from coal-fired units, of which about 40%    in the project will have a huge impact in reducing
comes from small inefficient units. As a     the intensity of coal use. The development of a
consequence of this the average specific coal  competitive generation market will lead to the



Page 7
Status Review in Zhejiang Province           Project Influence on Specific Sector Issue
consumption in Zhejiang is in the order of 404  increased use of more efficient plant and thereby
gce/kWhr, in comparison to an average       lead to lower coal usage per kWh of energy
consumption of about 320-340 gce/kWhr on more   produced. The pumped storage plant, while not
efficient generating plant.                  directly reducing the use of coal generation will
ensure more efficient use of coal by displacing
inefficient coal units used for peaking, as well as
increasing the load factors on existing large thermnal
units (e.g. Beilingung) thereby improving average
heat rates.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a. detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Indicative              Bank-         % of
Component                  Sector          Costs        % of   financing      Bank-
(US$M)       Total   (US$M)    financing
1. Tongbai Pumped Storage Power    Physical           405.3         44.8      214.8        67.1
Plant. The development, based on an
existing upper reservoir, consists of: (a)
a new lower reservoir impounded by a
dam with a maximum height of 68.3 m,
(b) two inclined shafts and tunnels with
a total length of 1270 m to connect the
upper and lower reservoirs, (c) an
underground powerhouse with an
installed capacity of 4 x 300 MW, (d)
implementation  of an  environment
management plan, (e) implementation
of a resettlement action plan including
resettlement of 165 project affected
households, and (f) consulting services
to  assist  in  engineering,  design,
procurement    and    construction
management
2.    Transmission  Reinforcement    Ph,ysical         329.2        36.3      92.0         28.8
comprises (a) erection of twin 500 kV
transmission  lines (110  km  long)
connecting the Tongbai plant to the 500
kV grid at Zhuji and the construction of
a 500 kV substation at Zhuji; (b)
construction of two 500 kV substations
at Xiaoshan and Yongxi, each with a
capacity of 750 MVA; (c) expansion of
existing substations at Ningbo and
Wenzhou by 1,000 MVA each and the
erection of a 500 kV transmission line,
275 kIn long, between the two
substations, (d) erection of three short
500 kV double-circuit transmission
lines connecting substations at Zhuji,
Yongxi and Xiaoshan to existing
transmission lines; (e) supply and
installation    of       associated
telecommunication    and   dispatch
automation      equipment;     (f)
implementation    of    distribution
management systems in Hangzhou and
Ningbo; and (g) development of
province  wide  customer  service
centers;



Page 9
Indicative              Bank-        % of
Component                  Sector          Costs        % of   financing      Bank-
(US$M)       Total   (US$M)    financing
3. Implementation of a program of  Institutional       10.0         1.1       10.0         3.1
power  market development and  Development
sector restructuring, through (a)
implementation of a competitive power
market in Zhejiang; (b) restructuring of
ZPEPC with a view to separating
generation from transmission functions,
including the incoiporation of power
generation entities in Zhejiang as
limited  liability  companies;  (c)
consolidation of decentralized and
fragmented distribution operations into
county-level distribution entities and
the incorporation of such entities as
limited  liability  companies;  (d)
development and implementation of a
regulation     framework       and
establishment of a provincial regulatory
authority    in    Zhejiang;    (e)
implementation of an office automation
system and an enterprise resource
planning system in ZPEPC; (f) studies
dealing  with  customer  relations,
generation planning, retail tariff design,
condition monitoring and maintenance;
and (g) training of ZPEPC staff in
business  admiinistration,  corporate
governance, condition monitoring and
maintenance,     power      market
management, distribution management,
power station technical and commercial
operation and utility management.
Total      744.5        82.2      316.8       99.0
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction    156.4        17.5       0.0          0.0
Front-end fee       3.2          0.3       3.2         1.0
Total Financing Required      904.1       100.0      320.0       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms to be sought under the proposed project include:
(a) Implementation of a competitive generation market, based on a Single Buyer operating a mandatory
balancing pool. The main features of the market and its implementation are described in Annex 4,
Section C. The market design introduces an innovative incentive market structure which will
facilitate: (i) competition amongst generators for dispatch leading to the efficient use of available
generation capacity; (ii) the efficient procurement of new generation capacity; (iii) the gradual and
smooth transition to wholesale competition; and (iv) acquisition of commercial skills and capabilities
by participants to operate in an increasingly competitive environment.
(b) Developing and establishing a regulatory framework and institutional mechanism for the oversight of
the market and the power sector.
(c) Complete separation of generation assets from transmission and distribution and restructuring of
existing generation assets into independent generation companies (by 2000);



Page 10
(d) Corporatization of county level distribution bureaus into limited liability companies (from 1999 to
2003)
(e) Developing mechanisms to facilitate power exchange and trade with other provincial power
companies in the East China region.
(f) Irmiplementing a mechanism for pricing ancillary services, particularly peaking capacity provision.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project would have a marked impact onI the economic development of the province and, to a lesser
extent, the East China region by mitigating and eliminating institutional and technical constraints that
have prevented the power system from expanlding and operating efficiently. The direct benefits
attributable to the project are:
(a) Increase in least cost peaking capacity to accommodate increased peak load and help redress the
imbalance in power capacity mix towards base load plant.
(b) Improved system capacity factor that will increase the efficiency of coal use.
(c) Improved load management and load fol lowing capability that will increase service quality in terms
of supply reliability and frequency regulation.
The power market and regulatory system development supported by the project is ultimately aimed at
increasing sector efficiency by initially introclucing generation competition, which may later be expanded
to the wholesale level. Given the size and strategic importance of Zheiiang province the lessons learned
will i.nfluence power sector reforms in China as a whole. The project will facilitate:
(d) the implementation of an innovative competitive generation market structure
(e) restructuring and corporatization of one of the largest provincial power companies in China,
providing lessons for deeper state enterprise reform in the power sector.
(f) the establishment of a regulatory mechanresm for oversight of the power market and the sector mn
Zhejiang Province.
Implementation of the investment components of the project will also directly benefit the people in the
project areas by providing (i) employment opportunities both at the construction and the operation stage,
(ii) economic development opportunities because of a need for local services and materials, and (iii) tax
revenues.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. Seven (7) Years, from 2000-2007
Executing Agency. ZPEPC would be the executing agency of the project. ZPEPC is an experienced
executing agency through three Bank financed projects: Beilungang Therrnal Power Plant I and II
(completed and rated satisfactory), and Zhejiang Power Development Project (ongoing and rated highly
satisfactory for implementation progress and satisfactory for development objectives). ZPEPC has
quaalified personnel to undertake project preparation, implementation and operation. The power market
and regulatory system development component would be executed by ZPEPC in close coordination with
East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC) and with oversight from the State Power
Corporation (SP).
Project Coordination. ZPEPC would be responsible for overall coordination of the Project.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance. The reform elements of the proposed Project will be
supervised by SP. The SP would be expected to obtain State Council approvals on major reform! issues.
The Ministry of Finance (MOF), the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC) will supervise
Project financing and advise ZPEPC on all financing matters. The concerned provincial govemment
agencies will oversee the planning and implementation of resettlement.



Page 11
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant is the chosen first investment resulting from a least cost
power system development study prepared for the Zhejiang power system by the Beijing Economic
Research Institute (BERI). The study derived optimal (least cost) capacity additions to the system until
year 2015 to meet demand which is forecast to increase almost five-fold between 1997 and 2015. Peak
load is expected to grow from 6500 MW in 1997 to about 32,000 MW in 2015, requiring addition of
almost 22,000 MW to the system. The study found that the optimal composition of new capacity includes
about 4360 MW of pumped storage plants (PSP), including ZPEPC share in the Tianhuangping PSP (450
MW ) under construction. Due to a considerable deficit of peaking capacity in the system (the existing
generation capacity is overweighted towards base load), the demand for PSP is extremely high. Even with
the two currently identified PSP (Tongbai and Wulongshan) developed at their earliest commissioning
dates (Year 2002 for Tongbai and 2003 for Wulongshan), a further 2900 MW of PSP would need to be
put into operation during the period of 2004-2015.
One of the major alternatives considered was to install gas turbines burning distillate. These would be the
most economical alternative for peaking operation in the absence of economical pumped storage.
However, while gas turbines are capable of meeting the peak, they are not capable of providing additional
load during off-peak periods thus improving the efficiency of thermal generation. In the least cost
analysis, gas turbines were selected as candidates for system addition. About 400 MW of gas turbines
would be installed for the period (2000-2001) before the Tongbai PSP comes on line. After 2002,
addition of substantial capacity of gas turbines was not found to be economic.
Hydropower with sufficient storage to provide seasonal regulation was also considered as an alternative to
PSP. However, there is no significant undeveloped hydro resources in the province or even in the East
China region. There are only two remaining sites with significant potential within the province. These are
the Tangkeng cascade plants with installed capacity 3 x 200 MW and Huaguantan 60 MW + 25 MW.
The least cost plan indicated that Tangkeng should be put into operation in the same year as Tongbai PSP
but Huaguantan should not be commissioned until 2005-2010 because of its high capital cost. The
earliest available hydropower import would be in year 2005 from Three Gorges which would largely
operate as base load plant.
Other expansion candidates considered were combined cycle gas turbines, coal fired thermal units, and
nuclear units. However, they are only suitable for base load generation.
The proposed transmission reinforcement also constitutes part of the least cost plan of the 500 kV
Zhejiang provincial power grid. The plan was prepared using the same concept and methodologies
adopted by ZPEPC based on the technical assistance for transmission and distribution planning under the
Zhejiang Power Development Project. Load flows, stability studies and short circuit calculations were
carried out using the PSS/E software package. A number of strategic options for transmission
development in the province were formulated and investigated under various load forecast, generation
siting and dispatching scenarios.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue                       Project                             Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Issue a,b,c,e,f               East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission      S                S
Project - o
Issue a,b,e,f                 Tianhuangping Hydroelectric Project - o     HS                S
Issue a,b,c,d,e,f,g           Zhejiang Power Development Project - o      HS                S
Issue a,b,c,f                 Shuikou Hydroelectric Project - c           HS               HS
Issue a,b,d,f                 Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project - o    HS               HS
Issue a,b,c,f                 Ertan Hydroelectric Project- c              HS               HS
Issue a,b,c,f                 Ertan Hydroelectric Project Phase 2 - o     HS                S
Other development agencies
Asiar Development Bank        Guangzhou Pumped Storage Stage II
Project (Loan No. 1242-PRC) - o
ADB (TA N4o. 2789-PRC) Strengthening
Demand Sidie Management in Guandong
and Zhejiartg Province - o
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several lessons drawn from the previous three Bank financed projects in the province and completed and
on-going power projects in other parts of China and the world have been incorporated in the project
design and in the preparation phases to date. These are:
(a) Coordination of Bank supported activities for sector reform through economic and sector work
and project lending. In design and preparation for the power market and regulatory system
development component of the project, a. close coordination has been maintained with the IDF
financed sector reform study (which aims at setting up a policy framework for power market
development in China)and the East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project (which includes a
component to develop power trading at the regional level within East China). The coordinated
approach ensures consistency and maximizes the likelihood of replication of successful reform efforts
throughout China.
(b) Efficient procurement management through prequalification and/or staged bidding. Most
procurement problems which have occurred in China over recent years have been related to the
qualification of bidders and offered equipment, in an environment where fully qualified bidders are
continually increasing the proportion of rnanufacture by subsidiaries, joint-venture partners and
subcontractors who are not themselves fully qualified. In addition, in information technology related
equipment, fast developing technology results in difficulties in defining which technology qualifies.
To a large extent, these difficulties can be avoided through prequalification or staged bidding
processes and it has been agreed that prequalification will be adopted for the generating unit package
for the Tongbai plant and for IT components. Another difficulty which has resulted in delays in
power plant equipment installation in China relates to interfaces between individual suppliers.
Procurement packaging has therefore bee.n designed to reduce the number of packages to the
minimum practicable level while encouraging worldwide competition. For civil works construction,
which is planned to be carried out by local contractors, experience has been mixed. Therefore,
ZPEPC has carried out a prequalification process for local contractors selecting only six of the most
qualified bidders specialized in the field of hydroelectric construction.



Page 13
(c) Need for early government approval of project. In recent power projects there were delays in
project processing stemming from delayed internal Government approvals. These delays arose from
inadequate counterpart funding sources and delayed approval of feasibility studies etc. In the current
case, there is no shortage of counterpart funds and the project proposal incorporating all three
components has been approved by the State Council. Approval of the final feasibility study
(including foreign funds utilization request) may still be on the critical path to negotiations
(d) Need for adequate resettlement planning, consultation and monitoring. The numerous lessons
learned in several of the large Chinese reservoir resettlement projects (Shuikou, Ertan and
Daguangba) are being brought to bear in the limited resettlement associated with Tongbai. The
transmission line resettlement process will continue based on the highly successful organization and
procedures developed under the Zhejiang Power Development Project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The core component of the project (Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant) has been identified by ZPEPC
as a top priority development for providing peaking capability to the East China region to meet the
growing demand and to improve the power quality. In East China, Tongbai was chosen as the next
pumped storage project after a central government arranged independent comparison of competing
candidates. The approval of the project proposal incorporating all three components, by State Council, at
a time when investments in new generation are being severely restricted demonstrates the commitment of
the government to the project. Regarding the reform component of the project, the East China region and,
in particular, the provinces of Shandong, Shanghai and Zhejiang have been chosen by the central
government to experiment on various aspects of power sector reform. Zhejiang has been chosen to pilot
the implementation of power markets at the provincial level. ZPEPC has already installed meters at
major IPP power plants which will enter first into the power market and conducted trials with an internal
market. They have also completed a draft of the market code and development of settlement software.
Trial operation of the market is expected to commence in early 2000. The project has also obtained
support from the (SP) and the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and the provincial
government for regulatory system development.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Development of the power sector is vital for the development of industry and commerce to sustain a high
rate of economic growth and to distribute the benefits of economic growth to all groups of society and the
physical components of the project will support this goal. Power sector reform and institutional
development which is being achieved through Bank involvement in the sector are ultimately aimed at
developing the power sector from one which initially represented a substantial drain on public finances, to
one which will expand and operate in response to market forces and support public finances through taxes
and through the attraction of foreign investment to the country. Experience in China and in other
countries has also shown that power sector reform tends to pilot widespread state owned enterprise and
governance reform as well as development of the financial sector. Bank involvement in the power sector
in Zhejiang has closely paralleled Bank involvement in the Chinese power sector, with Zhejiang often
piloting the reform process. Achievements to date have been substantial but the remaining agenda is
formidable.
The investment components are appropriate vehicles for Bank investment in that private sector
development is not appropriate. While a few transmission lines have been developed privately on a lease
back basis, this is inappropriate in China where the power law provides that the transmission network
should be owned by the state. Hydroelectric and pumped storage projects are difficult to develop
privately because of: the high proportion of civil costs which do not attract export credits; their capital
intensive nature with costs being recovered over a design life five times the maturities of commercial
loans; the longer construction period; the higher cost estimate risk because of geological uncertainties
and the high proportion of local costs which can rise rapidly in fast changing political, economic and
social environments; and environmental and resettlement implications which deter private developers and
lenders. A recent survey of privately developed greenfield projects reaching financial closure since 1991



Page 14
revealed only 1400 MW of hydro projects, some three percent of privately developed capacity. Half of
this was in a single project in Turkey where there was a high degree of risk pass-through. The others
dozen or so are small (average 55 MW), and carefully selected so as to minimize hydro-specific risks
listed above. There are no pumped storage projects. An additional difficulty of pumped storage projects
is the pricing of ancillary services (quick start system reserve, primary, secondary frequency regulation
and voltage regulation). For this reason, all pumped storage plants developed to date have been
developed publicly and owned (or leased to) the grid. This aspect is even more difficult in competitive
power markets, as will be introduced in Zhejiang. For instance in the United States, two pumped storage
plants which were to be developed privately, to be leased to utilities, have been put on hold until the issue
of pricing of ancillary services has been solved.
World Bank involvement in the project would ensure that:
(a) The design and implementation of the power market in Zhejiang, which is a central theme of the
proposed project, benefits from international experience in the development of power markets. The
Bank is in a unique position to bring international experience to bear in power market design in such
areas as market organization and operation; settlement systems; ancillary services pricing and
transitional arrangements.
(b) The pioneering work related to the detailed design of an electricity regulatory system in Zhejiang
Province will provide a key input to the central govemment decision-making process in delineating
central and provincial level regulatory responsibilities and institutionalizing them.
(c) The legal and commercial arrangements defining the relationship if the pumped storage plant with the
power market are appropriate.
(d) The technical design, construction practices and equipment selected for the pumped storage hydro
plant are in accordance with leading international practice and standards. China has limited
experience in these areas of pumped storage hydro plant development and this project would
significantly contribute to capacity building.
(e) The on-going policy dialog to address the institutional aspects of wholesale electricity pricing and
transmission pricing, are successfully implemented in leading provincial power systems that are
likely to serve as models for other provinces.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 6)
[X3 Cost-Benefit Analysis (Pumped Storagle Component): NPV=US$152.9 million; ERR= 16.0%
[XJ Cost Effectiveness Analysis (Transmission Component): NPV=US$57.0 million; ERR=15.4%
[ ] Other (specify)
A least cost analysis (cost effectiveness analysis) was carried out to verify that the Tongbai Pumped
Storage Power Plant forms part of the least cost generation expansion for Zhejiang Province. This proved
to be true under a wide range of assumptiorns.
A benefit/cost analysis was also carried out using currently demonstrated willingness to pay as a
minimum proxy for economic benefit. This analysis yielded an EIRR of 16 percent. An additional
analysis was carried out to determine the effect of dynamic benefits on the rate of return. This analysis
showed that the system is currently adequately supplied with fast ramping capacity to maintain frequency
in a rational range. However, improvements in system reliability would raise EIRR from 16.0 to 16.3
percent.
Full details including sensitivity studies and. risk analysis are included in Annex 6.
2. Financial: (see Annex 7)
The Tongbai pumped storage plant is a joinrt investment by ZPEPC, East China Power Group



Page 15
Incorporated, Shanghai Electric Power Company, and the power investment companies of Zhejiang and
Jiangsu Provinces, Shanghai City and Tiantai County. The power plant will be formed into a limited
liability company prior to commencement of operations. According to a pre-investment agreement, the
capacity available from the power plant will be distributed to the provinces and municipality in which the
shareholders are located in proportion to their aggregated capital contributions, and the shareholders shall
be responsible for the purchase of the on-grid quantity and provision of pumping electricity. The
investors have agreed to pay a two part tariff for capacity and energy which will allow the company to
meet its financial obligations and to provide the investors with a 12 percent internal rate of return on
equity invested, which may be adjusted upwards in the event of a resurgence of local inflation.
Financial analyses were therefore carried out to determine the tariff profiles required to provide this rate
of return, under different scenarios of pumrping energy costs and annual generation. These analyses
demonstrated that the average tariff required to provide these rates of return is less than currently being
paid for thermal peaking plant. Analyses were also carried out to determine likely rates of return on
investment and equity under competitive conditions. Under the base case scenario, the FIRR after tax is
15.8 percent and IRR on equity (net cash flow after tax) is equal to 25.2 percent.
A financial management assessment of ZPEP was carried out as part of the project preparation, and is
included as Annex 8. Based on this assessment the task team determined that the Project will satisfy the
Bank's financial management requirements as stipulated in OP 10.02. The project will have in place an
adequate project financial management system that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format agreed with the proposed project
management office and as required by the Bank.
3. Technical:
Tongbai. The project has been designed and will be implemented according to internationally accepted
technical criteria and standards. The technologies involved are proven, and as demonstrated by other
completed and ongoing pumped storage projects (including the Bank financed 1800 MW Tianhuangping
Pumped Storage Project), have been successfully used in China. The project designer, East China
Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI) is one of the most experienced design institutes in China and
is ranked first among the 13 design institutes under the direct jurisdiction of SP. They are also the
designers of the Tianhuangping project. International consultants have been employed to review designs,
prepare technical specifications for international bidding, and assist in preparation for construction.
Prequalification will be undertaken of contractors for the major civil works package and for the
powerhouse generating equipment. With regard to the latter, prequalification criteria have been agreed
and applications will be invited in December 1999.
There is more than adequate knowledge on site conditions (notably geology) due to the combination of
the construction experience from the existing hydro project at the site, plus extensive site investigations
for the new project. The underground powerhouse and waterways are largely located within a strong,
granite rock strata.
A Special Board of Consultants has been formed to carry out periodic independent reviews of technical
aspects of the design and construction of the pumped storage plant including the associated dams, in
conformity with OP 4.37.
Transmission Component. The component has been designed by the East China Electric Power Design
Institute (ECEPDI), Southwest China Electric Power Design Institute, and Zhejiang Electric Power
Design Institute, who have been qualified by SP. In preparation for the project, ZPEPC employed
international consultants to prepare standard technical specifications which will now be used for all high
voltage transmission procurement in Zhejiang Province.
Cost estimates for equipment are based on recent international bids and cost estimates for works on
recent local bids. Physical contingencies have been allowed for at rates of 15% for underground works,
10% for other civil works, 5% for electrical and mechanical equipment, and 10% for miscellaneous.
Price contingencies have been calculated based on 4.0% local inflation, and 2.4% foreign inflation. The



Page 16
agreed procurement and disbursement arrangements are presented in Annex 9.
4. Institutional:
ZPEPC is very experienced in Bank projects, this being their fourth project. This is demonstrated by the
rating for the ongoing Zhejiang Power Deve,.opment Project, which is rated Highly Satisfactory in
relation to implementation progress. Organization charts for construction management of the two
physical components are included in Annex 5.
For the pumped storage project, ZPEPC will engage a supervising engineer, from the shortlist of highly
qualified firms certified by the Ministry of Construction for works of this type and magnitude.
International consultants will also provide advisory services to this firm and ZPEPC. For the transmission
component, ZPEPC will continue with the implementation arrangements successfully used for the 500 kV
transmission component of the Zhejiang Power Development Project.
5. Social:
The pumped storage power plant will require acquisition of 1,282 mu of land, some 606 min is related to
the reservoir, with the remainder relating to construction of the dam, roads, waterway, switchyard and
other related facilities Additionally, during construction, a total of 806 mu land area will be temporarily
occupied for construction facilities, living quarters and temporary access roads. Based on a census
survey, a total of 354 households and 1,283 persons will be affected by the project, of which 165
households of 572 persons will be physically relocated, while the remaining 189 households of 711
persons will only lose land The project will also have minor effects on an irrigation canal, power and
communication lines and local roads and bridges.
The transmission component will require acquisition of some 718 mu, 437 mu of which is for the three
new substations with the remainder for tower bases (some 0.6 mu per km). Temporary occupation of
about 255 mu of land will also be required for the transmission lines. Based on a detailed survey, 104
households of 449 persons will need to be relocated; and another 145 households or 626 persons will be
affected due to land loss.
The basic resettlement strategy is to provide land based economic rehabilitation for those who lose land.
Those who lose their houses will be provided with replacement value, free new housing plot and moving
assistance. Detailed resettlement action plans (RAPs), fully conforming to OD 4.30 have been prepared
for both power plant and transmission components. These are summarized in Annex 10.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category  [X] A    [ ] B   [ ] C
The pumped storage plant exploits an existing upper reservoir built in the 1960s. A new lower reservoir
is to be built, together with an underground powerhouse. Both reservoirs are small with surface areas of
79 ha(upper) and 48 ha(lower) and are sited orl small streams. The reservoirs will act as transfer ponds
with sufficient storage for a daily operating cycle. The transmission lines primarily extend through
relatively undeveloped mountainous terrain. As a result only some 4 ha of agricultural land will be lost.
The three new and two extended substations are located in generally developed areas.
An environmental impact assessment (EIA) and an environmental management plan (EMP) conforming
to OP 4.01 have been prepared and are summarized in Annex 11. The most important impacts are:
(a) Loss of the Baizhang valley (50 ha) by inundation to forn the lower reservoir;
(b) Potentially adverse impacts on the downstream flow regime in the Baizhang River by releases from
the lower reservoir;
(c) Loss of a small area (30 ha) of wetland in the area assigned for conversion to resettlement;
(d) Short-term impact of the influx - to a rural area - of up to 3800 workers during construction of the
pumped storage plant;
1.0 ha= 15 mu



Page 17
(e) Some tree cutting and vegetation clearing in the forested area (600 ha) crossed by the transmission
lines;
(f) Electromagnetic radiation and corona noise from the transmission lines and substations;
(g) Construction of some 38 km of access roads for the transmission lines, mostly through mountainous
and forested areas.
One of the most significant mitigation measures taken has been the consideration of environmental
impacts during the formulation and design of the project, particularly in relation to location and alignment
of the transmission lines and substations. The criteria applied include the following: avoidance of all
areas of prime ecological significance; avoidance of areas of archaeological and historical significance;
avoidance of areas of significant scenic or tourism value; avoidance of areas liable to adversely impact
safe operation, e.g. unstable slopes, seismically active zones, flooding, heavy icing etc.; avoidance as
much as possible of populated areas, agricultural land, and existing infrastructure.
With regard to environmental management, among the construction practices specified are: use of
appropriate drainage, collectors and settling basins to prevent surface water contamination; treatment of
waste disposal areas; prohibition of hunting or any abuse of the local fauna by the workforce. As a
response to the loss of wetland used for resettlement, a very much larger area, about 853 ha, is planned to
be set aside as a nature reserve.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The preparation of the project has involved and will continue to involve all major stakeholders in project
design and implementation. The major stakeholders are:
(a) ZPEPC is the beneficiary of the project.
(b) SP has been involved in all major sector policy issues and project approval. Both SP and SETC
(which has responsibility for power sector regulation) have provided written support to the power
market and regulation components of the project.
(c) Zhejiang Provincial Government is fully involved in ongoing tariff reform and implementation. The
responsible vice-governor has confirmed the Government's support for regulatory system
development
(d) Communities affected by the project. With regard to the communities affected by the pumped storage
component, extensive consultation and community participation has already occurred during the
preparatory phases of the project. At the pre-approval phase consultations were carried out as
detailed in paras 49 to 53 of Annex 11. In later stages more detailed consultations were carried out in
preparing the RAP. For example, based on the preferences of the affected villages and individuals: a
land based economic rehabilitation strategy was adopted; the new village site was changed from the
east side of the Potangxi stream to the west side for closer proximity to the county town center and a
one km length of highway will be constructed to connect the site to the town center; and several
irrigation facilities will re-constructed for the host communities. For the transmission component, the
substation site of Yuyao was initially to be located in Yangling village, in Zhangting township.
However, this village has a very limited amount of cultivated land, and after consultation with local
government and residents, a new site at Zhujiamen village, Yuyao township was selected.
Participatory and transparent processes will also be employed in the implementation phase in areas
such as delivering compensation packages and allocation of housing plots. The resettlers will also be
informed of the established grievance procedures.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The seven investors in the Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant (see Financial) have set up a preparatory
committee to make known the views of the investors prior to the incorporation of the limited liability
company, at which time a board of directors will be appointed.



Page 18
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are no significant environmental impacts that could affect sustainability. Social sustainability is
assured by the comprehensive resettlement plans, the "land for land" rehabilitation strategy, and by the
excellent record of ZPEPC in resettlement.
Financial sustainability is assured by the preinvestment agreements and the affordability of projected
tariffs.
Institutional sustainability is assured by the "ownership" by ZPEPC of its Sector Reform Strategy and
Implementation Plan, and the support for reform coming from central and provincial governments.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
From Objective to Goal
Other generation and transmission expansion    N       Financial covenants will ensure
projects not completed on schedule                     adequate resource availability for
timely completion of scheduled
projects
Entry of new participants into the market not  M        Development of mechanisms to
achieved because of perceived high risk in             advise potential market entrants of
immature market and fast changing econorrmic           expected growth and investment
circumstances.                                          opportunities.   Development of
transitional arrangements to provide
adequate degree of security to
commercial lenders (e.g. Contracts
for Differences - CfDs.
Measures for increased fuel efficiency, such as  N      Actively  support and  continue
gradual decommissioning of small thermal units          dialogue with Government on the
and reduction in partial loading continue to be         decommissioning of small thermal
implemented.                                           units.         Power    market
implementation will reduce partial
loading of efficient thermal units.
From Outputs to Objective
Power sector reform objectives not achieved    M        Support for power market and
due to lack of government commitment.                  regulatory  component  obtained
from    relevant    Government
departments.  SP has designated
Zhejiang   as  one   of  three
province/municipalities  to  pilot
power market implementation. A
comprehensive            reform
implementation plan prepared and
agreed with the client.
Continued technical assistance.



Page 19
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Efficient operation  of power market not       M       Particular  focus  on  developing
achieved, because of excessive ZPEPC market            arms-length relationship  between
power  and  residual  tendency  towards                 entities controlled by ZPEPC and
centralized  control, or due  to  lack  of             the market operator, and progressive
understanding and ownership by key personnel.          divestiture of ZPEPC  generation
companies.   Adequate hands-on
training of ZPEPC personnel in
functioning power markets and
technical  assistance  to  market
participants in early stages of
market operation.
IIncorrect pricing of output from  Tongbai      N       Tongbai output would be very
pumped storage power plant leading to lower             attractive  even  under minimum
than expected commercial utilization of project,        pricing  in  line  with  expected
and thereby reduced contribution to peaking             substitute peaking units on the
and load following capacity.                            system.   When other ancillary
services capabilities are factored in,
Tongbai  would  be  extremely
valuable to the system.
From Components to Outputs
Schedule and cost overruns due to adverse      M       Adequate contingency allowances
geological conditions.                                 in costing and float in scheduling in
potentially critical areas.
Schedule and cost overruns due to inadequate   M       Ensure adequate attention to ZPEPC
project management capability, contractor               construction        management
weakness or excessive contractual claims                organization responsible  for the
project.  Strict  prequalification
criteria for civil works (NCB
financed by the borrower)
Procurement delays.                            M        Prequalification for major E&M
supply    contracts,    Engaging
international consultants assisting in
preparation of bidding documents
and bid evaluation
Power market implementation delayed due to:    M        Identification   of  all  reform
(a) inability of Government to finalize key             coordination issues and continued
policy decisions, (b) slow implementation of            policy dialogue with all agencies
the necessary technical support systems.                during implementation.    Close
supervision of all technical support
systems.



Page 20
Risk                     Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Delays in resettlement implementation due to    M        (a) advance the preparation of an
delays in approval of resettlement budgets,              executable resettlement plan with
inadequate planning, failure in implementation           assistance    of     experienced
or erosicn of compensation value through                 resettlement specialists; (b) provide
I inflation                                               adequate contingency for costing
and compensation arrangements to
include inflation adjustments; (c)
ensure establishment of strong
implementation      organization,
internal and external monitoring and
grievance procedures.
[Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ZPEPC, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
2. Agreements to be reached with the Government:
The Borrower will onlend the proceeds of the loan to ZPEPC under a subsidiary agreement on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with ZPEPC bearing the foreign exchange risk.
3. Agreements to be Reached with the Beneficiary:
Financial Performance
(a) ZPEPC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that its internal cash generation is sufficient to
maintain a self financing ratio of not less than 30 percent.
(b) ZPEPC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenue and expenditure shows
that the estimated internal cash generation would provide a debt service coverage of no less than 1.5 times
at all times; and
Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Aucliting
(c)    maintain and provide the Bank with semiannual progress reports, with unaudited project accounts
to reflect project expenditures and original project cost estimates for the implementation period;
(d)    furnish to the Bank audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and financial
statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year; and require auditors to comply with
international auditing practices and provide audit plans for each audit; and
(e)    by April 30 of each year, furnish to the Bank a rolling long-term financial plan containing
projected income statements, fund flow statem-nents, and balance sheets.
Power Sector Reform
(f)    carry out a program of power sector restructuring in accordance with a plan acceptable to the
Bank. The agreed plan is detailed in the "'Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan in
Annex 4".



Page 21
Institutional Building
(h)    Carry out the management development and training programs as agreed with the Bank.
Environment
(i)    Carry out the Environmental Management Program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Resettlement
(j)    Carry out the resettlement program in accordance with the agreed RAPs.
Dam Safety
(1)    Employ a panel of experts to review design and construction procedures relating to dams.
Prepare detailed plans for construction supervision and quality assurance, a plan for instrumentation, an
operation and maintenance plan, and an emergency preparedness plan.
(m)   Cary out periodic inspections of all dams after their completion.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ ] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[X] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, including, but not limited to:
OP 4.01 and OP   Enviromnental       Consultations with project affected groups, goverment and non-
4.30            Assessment and       government social organizations and specialist groups have occurred
Involuntary         as described in Section E.7. above and paras 49 to 53 of Annex 1 1.
Resettlement        ElAs, EMPs and RAPs complying with OP 4.01 and 4.30 were
forwarded to the Bank Infoshop on 07/18/1999, before appraisal
departure on 07/19/1999. Chinese versions of these documents have
also been provided to affected villages, and placed in county record
centers, which are fully open to the public.
OP 4.37         Safety of Dams       A panel of experts has been formed to review designs, and will
continue to be employed throughout the construction period and start
of operations. Prequalification of contractors will be carried out.
Plans required by the OP have been or will be carried out at
appropriate stages.
OP 10.02     J                       Financial Management Assessment has been carried out (Annex 8).
OP 11.02    -                        Procurement planning fully complies with the OP.
Team Leader: Barry Trembath/Ranjit Lamech
Sector Directorx4oshihiko Sumi         ~-       -z----   g    -
Country Director: Yukon Huang



Page 22
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Hierarchy of Objectives            Key Performzaince Indicators           Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce infrastructure bottlenecks    1.1 Reduction in Infrastnicture Constraint  ZPEPC statistics  Continued government
to ensure environmentally       .d_tcommitment and
sustainable development         Indicator                                                          implementation of overall
Improvement in grid reliability - (reduction in                   economic and sector reform.
supply disruptions)1:
Continued implementation of
necessary rural and urban
1997    2000    2003    2006                             infrastructure.
Rural Grid 99.2   99.15   99.8    99.8
Urban Grid 99.3  99.15   99.8    99.8
1.2 Environmentally Sustainable Energy    ZPEPC statistics
Delivery Indicator:
Specific fuel consumption in Zhejiang province
(in gee/kWh)
1997    2000    2003    2006
Zhejiang 404     396     385      379
Project Development Objective:                                                                    (Objective to Goal)
1. Improving the operating and  1.1. Investment Efficenc Indicator         Utility statistics (ZPEPC    Other generation and
investment efficiency in generation   Percentage of capacity comprising small  and ECEPGC)         transmission expansion projects
by implementing a competitive   thermal units (<50 MW):                                            completed on schedule.
generation market in Zhejiang            1997    2000    2003    2006
province.                                25.8    18.4    11.2    4.7                               Entry of new participants in the
market not achieved because of
perceived high risk in immature
1.2 Market Concentraticn and competitiveness                     market and fast changing
Indicator:                                                        economic circumstances.
Percentage of generaton capacity controlled by                    Measures for increased fuel
the largest market participant (presently                         efficiency in addition to reducing
ZPEPC):                                                           partial loading continue to be
1997    2000    2003    2006                             implemented.
57%     45%     35%      20%
2. Increase of peaking capacity  2.1 Load Following Capability Indicator   ZPEPC Statistics
and improve load following and  Improvement in Area Control Error (ACE).
power quality in the Zhejiang power      1997    2000    2003    2006
system.                                  75      78       81      85
Outputs:                                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
1 The pumped storage power plant  1.1 Key Milestone Indicators: (for details see    Site inspection and  Correct economic pricing  of
of 1200 MW in commercial        Procurement Annex)                         commissioning           output from Tongbai pumped
operation                       10/00 Award of equipment supply contract   documentation           storage power plant leading to
05/02 Award of equipment erection contract                        expected commercial utilization
07/00 Mobilize LOT I conrTactor           Supervision and         of project.
03101 Mobilize LOT 2 contractor           independent monitoring
09/02 Complete powerhouse excavation      reports                 Power sector reform objectives
02104 Complete upper reservoir works                              not achieved due to lack of
09/04 First unit in service                                       govemment commitment.
04/06 Fourth (final) unit in service
Adequate training and capacity
166 PAH resettled and income restored.                            building at all levels to ensure
understanding and ownership
by key personnel
2. Reinforced 500 kV transmission   2.1 Length of transmission lines constructed  Supervision and project
system in operation                (in circuit-km):                        progress reports
Supply Reliability Indicator= [1- (EConsumer not served x number of hours of disruption)/( ZTotal number of consumers x 8760)]
2 ZPEPC will comply with relevant regulations issued by central government authorities in this regard.



Page 23
Hierarchy of Objectives           Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
1997    2000    2003    2006        . i
Site inspection and
Zhejiang 1,015    1,758   2,576          commissioning
Project  0      0       224     299      documentation
2.2 Transmission transformer capacity added
(in MVA):
1997    2000    2003    2006
Zhejiang 325    775     1,150
Project  0      0       75       350
2.3 Communication Lines Added
1997    2000    2003    2006
Zhejiang 325    771      1,106   1,376
Project  0      0       75       350
3.1 Development and            3.1 Progress in refomn implementation will be
Implementation of Comprehensive   monitored based on 'Power Sector Reform
Power Sector Reforms.          Strategy and Implementation Plan' (see Annex
4):
December 1999: All Thermal Generation
stations formed as separate limited liability
companies.
January 2000: Commence trial market
operation
December 2001: Market Code formally
approved.
December 2001: 40 percent of County Power
Supply Bureaus formed as Limited Liability
Companies
December 2003: All county supply companies
formed as Limited Liability Companies
Project ComponentslSub-        Input: (budget for each component)                               (Components to Outputs)
components:
1. Tongbai pumped storage power   $405 million                                                  1. Schedule and cost overruns
plant                                                                                           due to adverse geological
2. Reinforcement of 500 kV     $319 million                                                     conditions.
transmission system
3. Power market implementation  $20 million                                                     2. Schedule and cost overruns
and regulatory system                                                                           due to inadequate project
development. Tariff reform,                                                                     management capability,
information system development,                                                                 contractor weakness or
and generation expansion planning.                                                              excessive contractual claims.
3. Inadequate procurement
planning and management,
slow in procurement decisions
4. Power market
implementation delayed due to:
(a) inability of Government to
finalize key policy decisions; (b)
slow implementation of
adequate technical support
systems.
5. Delays in resettlement
implementation due to delays in
approval of resettlement
budgets, inadequate planning,
failure in implementation.



Page 24
Annexc 2: Project Description
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Introduction
I.    The Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company (ZPEPC) is the main power utility operating in
Zhejiang province in the rapidly developing coastal area of Eastern China with a installed generating
capacity of over 13,000 MW. The main generation source is coal-fired thermal plant, with hydropower
providing less than 10% of the supply. A growing problem is the difficulty in meeting the wide variation
between peak and off-peak demand. Most of the thermal plant is suitable only for operation at more-or-
less constant load and the more flexible hydro plant is insufficient to cover the load variation. The gap
between on and off-peak demand is forecast to exceed 4,000 MW by 2005. In summary, a substantial
amount of additional peak-load type generation plant is required.
2.    The project consists of three components:
(a) Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant, with an installed capacity of 1200 MW.
(b) A Transmission and distribution component consisting of some 400 km of 500 kV associated
transmission lines and substations, distribution management systems for Hangzhou and
rNingbo municipalities, and province wide customer service centers.
(c) A Power Sector Restructuring Component.
3.    This annex describes the two physical components of the project. The power sector restructuring
component is fully described in Annex 4.
The Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plaint
4.    The first comprehensive study was completed with the issue of a pre-feasibility study report in
June 1994. This was followed by a feasibilily study report in October 1996. The project was been
subsequently brought to the preliminary design level in 1998.
5.    This project component exploits an existing upper reservoir built in the 1960s and presently part
of an 8 MW hydro power plant. A new lower reservoir is to be built, together with an underground
powerhouse. Both reservoirs are small with surface areas of 78 ha (upper) and 48 ha (lower) and are sited
on small streams. The reservoirs will act as transfer ponds with sufficient storage (around 11 million m3)
for a daily operating cycle - the -per reservoir is typically full at daybreak and is used to provide water
for generation during the day, particularly at the early evening peak demand period. By late evening, as
electricity demand drops, the lower reservoir is now nearly full (the upper empty) and the pattern is
reversed with water transferred during the riight by pumping from the lower to the upper reservoir. The
site is about 215 km (straight-line distance) from Hangzhou, the provincial capital and has excellent
access. There is more than adequate knowledge on site conditions (notably geology) due to the
combination of the construction experience from the existing hydro project plus extensive site
investigations. The underground powerhouse and waterways are largely located within a strong, granite
rock strata. The existing power plant will be operated for a time during the construction period but then
abandoned.



Page 25
6.    The main features of the pumped storage plant are (a table of key statistics is attached):
(a) Upper Reservoir (Existing) is located on a small stream (the Tongbai), with a drainage area
of 6.7 km2, at the edge of a mountainous plateau at an elevation of 400m. The plateau drops
steeply to a plain at an elevation of around 100m. This 300m drop provides the physical
rationale for the plant. The reservoir is fed by runoff diverted from several adjacent streams,
the total drainage area intercepted is 61 km2. The existing reservoir levels will be unchanged
and the only significant physical modification required in the reservoir area is the addition of
a new intake/outlet structure. The dam embankment will also be strengthened to ensure its
long-term stability and safety. The plateau is accessible from the well-developed plain below
by a new so-called "scenic tourist" road about 6 km long. This road was recently built by the
local authorities and is intended to open up the plateau to tourism - the rim of the plateau
provides magnificent views.
(b) Lower Reservoir. The Baizhang river flows along the base of the plateau and will be
dammed to form the lower reservoir. The upstream 15.5 km2 of the basin is at present
diverted into the upper reservoir; the diversion will continue in effect and the remaining
drainage area feeding the lower reservoir is only 6 km2. The dam is a concrete faced rockfill
embankment some 420 m long with a maximum height of 68 m. Flow is discharged from the
reservoir via a low level release tunnel (which allows the reservoir to be emptied if necessary)
and an ungated spillway. Design floods are low (a function of the small river basin) with a
maximum of 500 m3/s.
(c) Power Facilities. The powerhouse and water conveyance system are located underground
(as is the small existing powerhouse which will be abandoned upon project completion). The
one major surface feature is the switchyard. The upper reservoir intake/outlet structure
incorporates twin openings leading to inclined pressure shafts 9.0 m diameter, subsequently
bifurcating into individual 5.5 m diameter steel-lined penstock tunnels. The machine hall
cavern houses 4x300 MW reversible pump/turbine units and is about 170m long by 24m high
and 54m high. The transformers are located in an adjacent transformer hall.
(d) Operating Considerations. The units will operate at a rated head of 239 m. Maximum
plant discharge is 580 m3/s. The reservoirs are sized, i.e. have sufficient storage, to allow
operation at full output of four to five hours a day. The average annual generation is
estimated at 1560 GWh. a plant factor of 17.8 %. With an overall efficiency of 75%,
pumping energy required is some 2080 GWI/yr. The natural inflow from the various small
river basins averages about 1.85 m3/s (58 mcm/yr) more than enough to cover maximum
evaporation and leakage losses. Reservoir storage is ample to accommodate the small
volumes of incoming sediment. The two reservoirs feature a considerable range of draw
down (maxima of 20 and 29 m in the upper and lower reservoirs respectively) most of which
will be used on a daily basis.
The Transmission and Distribution Component
7.    The existing grid is largely based on 220 kV transmission together with a limited coverage of 500
kV lines (1200 km and 2750 MVA of capacity) in the Hangzhou area linking it to the major thermal
power plants on the coast to the East and to Shanghai and Anhui province in the North. An expanded 500
kV transmission grid is now required to handle the growth in demand. The facilities included in this
component are:
(a) erection of twin 500 kV transmission lines (1 10 km long) connecting the Tongbai plant to the
500 kV grid at Zhuji and the construction of a 500 kV substation at Zhuji;



Page 26
(b) construction of two 500 kV substations at Xiaoshan and Yongxi, each with a capacity of 750
MVA;
(c) expansion of existing substations at Ningbo and Wenzhou by 1,000 MVA each and the
erection of a 500 kV transmission line, 275 km long, between the two substations;
(d) erection of three short 500 kV double-circuit transmission lines connecting substations at
Zhuji, Yongxi and Xiaoshan to existing transmission lines; and
(e) supply and installation of associated telecommunication and dispatch automation equipment.
Distribution Management Systems
8.    To improve reliability and quality of energy, ZPEPC will implement distribution management
systems in Hangzhou and Ningbo. The DMV[Ss will be based on safe, reliable and open platforms that
provide various advanced services and a powerful functional environment for application implementation,
allowing for operation of several independent application subsystems on the platform. A distributed,
open, modular, expandable, integrated automation system will be adopted providing basic services such
as hardware technology and core operation system, and other services such as database system,
information transfer, man machine interface, real-time environment application, geographic environment
application and interface with other subsystems.
9.    The main functions on the platform will include:
(a) Distribution Automation (DA). providing for real-time supervisory/control and data
acquisition for the distribution network.
(b) Geographic Information Systerrm (GIS), through GIS technology, real-time control is
integrated with off-line application, and a layered database that combines spatial concept
(geographical land-base information) with basic information (network data and customer
data). The database will provide the ability to query and manage basic information, and
provide an efficient network model with geographical background for power system
operation. It will also provide a database platformn to support other applications such as
SCADA, TCM and Customer Service Management System.
(c) Trouble Call Management (TCM) containing the functional modules of customer trouble call
management, fault diagnosis, fauLlt location, and outage restoration. It is used to manage the
process from distribution outage to restoration.
(d) SCADA system of distribution and relevant district grids. The SCADA master stations shall
satisfy monitoring and controlling requirements of distribution and related district power grid
of Hangzhou and Ningbo. The system functions shall be expandable according to practical
demands. The Man Machine stations of SCADA shall have two types: one for distribution
and the other for the related district power grid.
(e) Distribution Network Analysis Software. The following application software suitable for city
distribution analysis will also be procured: distribution network modelling and topology, load
modelling and calibration, distribution load flow, network optimisation and reconfiguration.
(f) Interface with legacy subsystem. such as MIS



Page 27
Customer Service Centers
10.   Customer Service Centers (CSCs) will be established in ZPEPC headquarters and the 11
municipal power bureaus to provide customers with a one-stop information service. The CSC is a
centralized telephone/information access center which will handle all telephone calls, faxes and intemet
inquiries from customers in the respective service areas of the municipal power bureaus. Currently
customers need to search for the appropriate telephone number of local business offices (more than ten
offices under one municipal bureau) to make inquiries. Even when this office is reached, service can be
very slow. When the CSCs are established, a single telephone number will be used throughout the
province and customers will be able to call this well-known number for any kinds of contact to the power
utility. The CSC with skilled operators and modem technology will be able to respond to customers'
inquiries, requests, applications and complaints through phone calls, faxes and emails in an appropriate
and timely manner. The CSC will be supported by a modem computerized customer information system
and phone call management system. ZPEPC has already developed an Electricity Sales Business
Information Management System and the pilot system has been implemented in Shaoxing. This system
will be rolled out to the whole province in 2000 after which all local business offices will have access to
data through the ZPEPC intranet. The CSC will be built on this foundation.
11.   The CSC component will include: (a) installation of information system hardware and software to
be integrated to ZPEPC intranet; (b) installation of modem digital telephone control system including
automatic call distribution, auto dial, auto transfer, and voice message, and development of supporting
system software to be integrated with the existing Electricity Sales Business Information Management
System; and (c) development of a customer business analysis system and an application processing
system
Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant
Table of Key Statistics
Hydrology: total catchment area   67 km2
Natural runoff                    1.7 m3/s (upper), 0.14 m3/s (lower)
Maximum design floods             208 m3/s (upper), 496 m3/s (lower)
Reservoir levels                  396-376 m (upper), 141-110 m (lower)
Reservoir surface area at FSL     79 ha (upper), 48 ha (lower)
Live storage                      10.6 million m3 (both)
Rated plant capacity              4x300 = 1200 MW
Rated plant discharge             4x145 = 580 m3/s
Power waterway                    2x9 m dia inclined shafts and penstock tunnels plus 5.5 m dia
individual steel-lined unit penstocks. Typical length 940 m. 4x7 m
dia tailrace tunnels 4x7 m dia 330 m long tailrace tunnels
Powerhouse, machine hall          Underground, 172x24x54 m (LxWxH)
Transformer hall                  Underground, 163x18x29 m (LxWxH)
Lower dam                         Concrete-faced rockfill, 424 mx68 m (Lxmax.ht)
Spillway                          Ungated chute, 21.5 m wide, 496 m3/s
Diversion and outlet tunnel       4.8 m dia 550 m long
Unit head range                   230 to 289 m
Turbine/Pump                      239 m rated head (turbine), 250 rpm, 5.8 m dia runner
Motor/Generator                   333 MVA at 0.9PF and 50 Hz (generator)
Transformers                      4x360 MVA, 500 kV 3-phase
Construction quantities           Excavation: 2.1 million m3 (surface), 0.7 million m3 (underground)
Embankment fill: 2.0 million m3
Concrete: 230,000 m3
Steel structures: 4300 tonnes



Page 28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                            US$ million
Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant                         165.19         189.19        354.38
,Tnsmission and Distribution                         202.75         79.53        282.28
power Market and Regulatory System                     0.00         10.00          10.00
367.94        278.72        646.66
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                              31.81         13.29         45.10
Price Contingencies                                 27.97         24.79         52.76
Total Project Costs               427.72        316.80        744.52
Interest during construction  72.09       84.31        156.40
Front-end fee                   3.20          3.20
Total Financing Required          499.81        404.31        904.12
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost by Category  -                         US$ million
ioods                                                148.63        296.49        445.12
mlorks                                               186.93                      186.93
services
Engineering, Procurement and Const. Mngmnt.     44.96          7.15         52.11
Owner's Administration                          12.84                       12.84
Studies and Training                             0.60         13.16         13.76
Environment and Resettlement                    33.76                       33.76
Total Project Costs              427.72         316.80        744.52
Interest during construction  72.09       84.31        156.40
F-ront-end fee                  3.20          3.20
Total Financing Required         499.81         404.31        904.12



Page 29
Annex 4: Power Sector Reform Strategy & Implementation Plan
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
A. Introduction
1.    Over the three-year period from 1999-2001, the power sector in Zhejiang will be very
substantially restructured and institutionally transformed. These reforms cover: reorganization of
generation, distribution and transmission operations; implementation of a competitive generation
market; development of regulatory processes and institutions; and improved management systems
within ZPEPC. While institutional reforms have been an integral component of the Bank's
lending in Zhejiang, work related to sector reform was first initiated as part of the Zhejiang Power
Development Project approved in February 1995.1 The Zhejiang Power Development Project,
began the evaluation and development of a comprehensive power sector reform action plan. The
objective of this plan was to institutionalize incentives for commercial sector operations and
introduce competition where possible. In addition, the plan included the a review of the financial
and accounting systems and the development of a new Financial Management Information
System (FMIS). Detailed design and implementation is underway in all areas.
2.     The proposed Tongbai Pumped Storage Project advances this work and introduces new
reform elements to ensure a comprehensive implementation effort. In recognition of the work
that has already been completed and the reforms planned, the State Development and Planning
Commission (SDPC) and the State Power Corporation (SPC) have designated Zhejiang province
to be one of the three provinces to pilot power sector reform. Zhejiang has also been specifically
designated as the province to pilot power market introduction The lessons from Zhejiang will
therefore influence the wider adoption of comprehensive power sector reforms in China. This
document has been prepared to provide an overview of the reform context in Zhejiang, and
outline the different reforms that will be implemented as part of the Tongbai Pumped Storage
Project.
3.    The main components of the reform program include:
(a) Introduction of generator competition by implementing a single buyer market
structure with a mandatory pool - as a first step towards a more competitive
wholesale power market. A market code and associated settlement systems will be
implemented to manage the pool transactions.
(b) Asset restructuring and corporatization of generation - all generators will be formed
as independent companies, separated from the Single Buyer. Corporate governance
reforms will facilitate the separation of generation ownership and management, from
that of transmission and distribution
(c) Consolidation of decentralized and fragmented distribution operations in Zhejiang
province and corporatization of Power Supply Bureaus.
(d) Development and implementation of a regulatory framework of rules, procedures and
institutions to oversee the generation market and regulate the sector as a whole.
(e) Further support for implementation of new systems for Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) customer services and office automation in ZPEPC.
There were two previous projects whose impacts, while substantial, focused on capacity building in least cost system expansion
planning, tariff design, technical operator training, etc.



Page 30
(f) Training and capacity building for the operating entities and the staff of the proposed
regulatory body in generation planning and retail tariff design.
B. Reform Drivers
4.     Power sector reform in Zhejiang in particular, and China in general, is being driven by
the following factors:
(a) Inefficiencies in Generation Plant Utilization. Generation plant is being operated
(i.e. dispatched) in a manner that is economically inefficient. The prevailing practice
in China has been to assure plants a certain minimum number of operating hours and
compensate them on the basis oi a one-part tariff. Most coal-fired thermal units are
therefore assured a fixed number of operating hours, irrespective of their marginal
operating cost. Although ZPEIPC made an effort to operate a system which
facilitated economic dispatch - thlis has not been entirely successful owing to the
underlying generator contracts guaranteeing a specific number of hours.
(b) Sub-Optimal Generation Investment. Investment in new generation is not being
made efficiently with adequate consideration for economies of scale. The
Government's "new-plant, new-price" policy, which was successful in attracting
substantial new investment in the generation sector, was less successful in ensuring
efficient investment. There are substantial amounts ofjoint venture generation
investments which have not fully exploited scale economies, nor led to the selection
of the most suitable generation technologies.
(c) Decentralized and Fragmented Distribution Entities. Distribution and consumer
supply functions are undertaken by decentralized power supply bureaus at many
levels - municipal, county, township, and village. While this decentralization has
helped to bring in consumer contributions to cover connection costs and expand
access, the operating and management efficiency of these local companies is
generally considered to be sub-optimal - with high technical losses stemming from
under-designed systems often constructed with inefficient equipments In addition
the consumer tariff varies widely, often in excess of long-ran marginal costs, as local
governments use the consumer tariff as a fiscal instrument to collect various levies -
while this practice has been recently banned by the central govemment, the ban has
not yet been implemented pending central government approval of new tariff
structures.
(d) Government Administrative Refrorm Initiatives. The Government of China has
begun a wide-ranging administrative reform of government ministries and state-
owned enterprise to achieve: (i) a clear separation of the government's regulatory and
policy functions from its asset management functions; (ii) the management and
operation of state-owned enterprises as truly commercial entities. Changes are
occurring at all levels of Government in China. In March 1998, the former Ministry
of Electric Power was abolished and its regulatory responsibilities transferred to the
State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) at the National level. In parallel,
the Government created an independent asset holding entity (i.e. the State Power
Corporation) to own central goverinment investment in the power sector, and not
participate in power sector regulation. The long anticipated separation of the Power
Bureaus from the Provincial Power Companies is now expected to occur in 1999,
2      Decentralized distribution systems often have low-voltage lines (e.g. 400 kV and 220 kV) strung over extremely long distances
exacerbating line losses. Transformers are generally under-sized and often constructed with material that lead to high core-losses.



Page 31
thereby creating the institutional basis for coordinated central and provincial level
regulatory oversight of the power sector.
C. Market Structure Reforms
5.     ZPEPC will implement a generation market with an incentive structure which will
facilitate: (i) competition amongst generators for dispatch leading to the efficient use of available
generation capacity; (ii) the efficient procurement of new generation capacity; and, (iii) the
gradual and smooth transition to wholesale competition.
6.     To achieve the above, ZPEPC worked with a consortium of consultants led by Pacific
Power International (PPI) to develop a power market structure that would be feasible for
implementation in Zhejiang. The approach developed is based on creating a Single Buyer with a
mandatory pool market wherein generators must submit bids in order to be dispatched. The
generator market would transition to a structure wherein distributors would be gradually allowed
to contract directly with generators (i.e. wholesale competition). This staged evolution from a
market with generator competition managed by a Single Buyer operating a mandatory balancing
pool, to wholesale competition in subsequent stages is an innovative way to gradually introduce
competition in the power sector. More importantly, this staged process allows participants to
acquire commercial skills and capabilities to operate in an increasingly competitive environment.
7.     The Single Buyer in Zhejiang will be required to participate in the East China Regional
Market, wherein the East China Electric Power Group will manage a bulletin board system (BBS)
for longer-term bilateral trades and a Price Based Energy Broker for shorter term spot trades3
8.     The main structural and operating features of this market are:
(a) ZPEPC will be restructured into a transmission and distribution company - hereafter
referred to as the Zhejiang Provincial Grid Company (ZPGC). Generation will be
separated into companies independent from ZPGC. Initially hydro is expected to be
closely affiliated to ZPGC, in order to optimize the resource use and balance other
water management considerations.4
(b) ZPGC will have a unit to perform the functions of the Single Buyer (SB) and the
Market System Operator (MSO). The SB will also undertake the capacity planning
for the system and coordinate demand forecasting with the distribution entities. The
MSO will be responsible for unit dispatch and managing the settlement operations.
(c) The Single Buyer will be the unit that signs the initial contracts (i.e. vesting contracts
for differences) with all the generators.
(d) All the generators will be given initial vesting contracts for differences (CfDs) for a
given level of demand. It is intended that the initial CfDs will provide the generators
a base level of revenue security - perhaps close to their current revenues. Over time
this coverage is expected to be reduced.
(e) The initial vesting contract for differences will be constructed in a manner that would
establish certain contract quantities and contract prices based on a forecast view of
the expected pool price., that would deliver a satisfactory financial outcome for each
3       This regional power market structure is being implemented as part of the East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project, approved
in March 1998.
4       It is expected that the hydro plants will be operated as "price-takers" to prevent them from being used opportunistically in the market
to set unduly high prices.



Page 32
generator. A decision has been made to provide all generators participating in the
market with contract coverage for 85% of their expected revenue requirements i.e.
85% of the revenue obtained from prevailing agreements based on 5,500 operating
hours. In other words, generators would be expected to compete for around 15% of
their required revenues in the electricity spot market.
(f) The incentives established by the mandatory pool and the CfD would include:
economic dispatch based on generator bid prices; generators bidding with a view to
exceed their contract quantities; and generators bidding close to their marginal cost.
(g) The skills that the mandatory pool with CfDs will help establish include: Generator
skills in understanding their costs, preparing bids and negotiating contracts; and
power market management skills within the MSO
(h) The distributors will be expected to cover a minimum level of demand through the
SB to correspond to the volumes contracted for under the CfDs. Distributors will be
allowed to use their own embedded generation to meet local load beyond the levels
contracted with the SB.s
(i) New generation will be obtained through competitive bidding conducted by the
Single Buyer. Consistent with the objective of gradually reducing the contract
coverage given to generators, the competitive bidding will be done in a manner
which balances offered price anid contractual coverage needed by new generators.
9.     ZPEPC is working on the followingr detailed market implementation tasks:
(a) Market Code. The Market Code is the central document that will govern the
operation of the competitive generator market. The Code will be administered by the
Market System Operator (MSO). The draft Market Code was completed by PPI in
May 1999. The Market Code has been approved for implementation by the
provincial government and SETC. Key components of the Market Code covering
aspects such as bidding, scheduling, dispatch and settlement have been utilized for
developing the trading and settlement system. A simulation exercise has been started
to test the Market Code. A revised version of the Code is being prepared in Chinese
and the full package is expected to be sent for formal review by central government
agencies in September 1999.
The aspects covered by the Code include:
*   System operation principles and rules
*  Market rules
*  Mechanism to determine market prices
*  Ancillary service pricing mechanisms
*  Network service pricing mechanism
*  Principles of transmission access
*   System security rules
*  Metering standards and codes
*  Rules on CfD basic terms
5  Most local power supply bureaus own and operate generation plant to meet a portion of their demand. Some of this generation, particularly
thermal, is generally high cost and are not expected to be able to compete with larger grid generators in the market. By setting a limit on
how much distributors can utilize embedded generation to meet native load, it is expected that these potentially non-competitive embedded
generators will gradually phased out and retired.



P   33
(b) Market Trading and  Aeiieme,t          e      market settlement system is required
to receive generator bids, eorssr   J-atc' schedules and process settlements.
ZPEPC evaluated the marklt se.-n-Jenntne.1 syste.m that was being used in the New South
Wales market in Australia (i.e ETLEX   A customized version of this system was
being offered by the PPI/Transgric, consort1urn fIr use in Zhejiang. ZPEPC's
detailed evaluation indicated tha. 'ie systemn was constructed on a now obsolete
platform, and would also recju`re ext.-nsr  custornization of the screens to make it
usable by plant and systerm cperatacrs Whi o nly read Chinese. It was therefore
decided to deve'lop the softwa-c in Chi.na wrth the guidance of PPI/Transgrid.
Nanjing Automation Research lrsti. ie ( ARI) has been contracted to develop the
market settlement system softreare. a development of the market trading and
settlement system is proceeQdin.   a. k dcqespite the ambitious schedule. Three of
the main modules are being tested through mnarket simulation exercises. These are
simulation exercises are intderd    tcst bol'h the computer software and the
suitability of the Market Code-. es'3-yst enr tests will be extended to actually schedule
and dispatch generators on the b     obc  from October 1999 onwards. During
these system tests cash setflemel t ;VoeOad contitnue based on the existing contracts.
The system is expected to be  rd -y fbi- r e tri hal operations in January 2000 which
would involve cash settleinent bsdn actual dispatch and the CfDs.
Market Implementation - Key D atas
(i)  Central and Provincial Governrnerjt -      01 .Markc:           September 1999
Code and Clearance for Market an .ra
(ii) Market simulations - To test ger     biGi a  bd.i               October-November
procedures; settlement systems; t   g,-n- gera;rn plant and      1999
MSO staff; simulation of dispatch' see  3., .e physical
market would clear; etc.
(iii) Completion of all preparatory wvor1 t_o i ze the               December 1999
market: settlement systems; market    -     I , tation
training; initial CfDs; generator     t4Zmc-fit  arket
System Operator and Single Buyer vi n, -,
(iv) Commence and conduct trial oper. icn       market               January 2000
onwards
(v) Evaluation of Market by SETC and WStza ,.Pwer                    January/February
2001
(vi) Modification and Finalization oC oardV. (o e                    February/March 2001
D. Industry and a'' ixwcturing in Zhejiang
10.    Extensive asset restructuring 5an     o   separation into different corporations will be
necessary to create an industry structure tha- iv consisteat with the market structure being
implemented. In addition, the govemnrtn is ad- mciCng a restructuring program to consolidate
the decentralized distribution operations intc. w'- 1managed commercial enterprises. The
restructuring and separation of generation  4-&m the downstream. transmission and
distribution operations will be done in thw , hort-enA (i.e. by 2000). The reorganization of
distribution operations will be done over  '`n''' cpGriiQrie of time.



Page 34
The Present Situation
11.    The power system in Zhejiang is the third largest in China, in terms of installed capacity
and load, which at the end of 1997 reached 12,600 MW and 48.5 TWh. The main features of the
structure are described below and shown in Figure 1.
(a) Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Corporation (ZPEPC) is the main power
enterprise in the province. ZPEPC is a vertically integrated company, which owns
and operates the provincial transmission network6 A large part of the generation and
a lesser share of distribution operations/enterprises in the sector, are also owned and
controlled by ZPEPC.
(b) ZPEPC is wholly owned by the East China Electric Power Group Corporation
(ECEPGC) - the regional power group corporation in East China. ECEPGC is in
turn wholly owned by the State Power Corporation. (This ownership structure is
under review and is likely to be changed. The most probable outcome is that
ECEPGC becoming a department of State Power, and State Power owning ZPEPC
directly).
(c) There are multiple owners/investors of the installed generation in Zhejiang. Apart
from ZPEPC, other players with substantive ownership stakes are: (i) Zhejiang
Provincial Electric Power Development Corporation (ZPEPDC) - the investment arm
of the Provincial Government and recipient of the 2-fen/kWh power surcharge; (ii)
the Huaneng Group - a leading IPP investor which is listed in New York; (iii) the
Zhejiang Southeast Power Cornpany listed in the Shanghai (B market) and London.
(d) Of the installed capacity of 12,600 MW, ZPEPC directly dispatches 7,018 MW.
ZPEPC has a investment stake iin much of the generation it currently dispatches. A
further 4,604 MW is embedded generation i.e. it is located in the medium-voltage
distribution network. These ernbedded generators are dispatched by the local
prefectural/municipal/county dispatchers.
(e) A large share of the embedded generators are inefficient coal-fired and oil/diesel
units. The rest is mainly run-of.-river hydro plant. The embedded thermal plants are
currently not permitted to generate during off-peak hours. To deal with the stranded
cost problem of these inefficienrt embedded thermal generators in a competitive
generation market, the intention is to limit their absolute energy output and restrict
their operation to peak hours.
Capacity   % of Total   Generation   % of Total
(MW)      Capacity      (GWh)    Generation
Hydro owned and dispatched by           960         7.7%         1,992        4.1%
ECEPGC
ZPEPC owned/managed and dispatched    7,018        55.8%        35,664       73.4%
Local embedded generation (>6 MW)     2,352        18.6%         8,435       17.4%
Local embedded generation (<6 MW)     2,252        17.9%         2,485        5.1%
12,582                    48,576
(f) Qishan Nuclear Plant 1 is largely owned and managed by China Nuclear Energy
Corporation. ZPEPC has a small share (around 10%) in Qishan Nuclear. There are
6      Some of the 500 kV lines in the Zhejiang province are owned by the East China Electric Power Group Corporation. While there are
clear asset ownership boundaries, further work is needed in clearly delineate the provincial and regional transmission networks from the
perspective of provincial and regional market operations.



Page 35
two other nuclear power stations under construction with similar ownership
arrangements Qinshan 2 with Chinese technology and Qinshan 3 with Canadian
technology.
(g) There are two main levels of distribution enterprises in Zhejiang - the municipal
level and the county level. There are 11 municipal level power supply bureaus
(MPSBs), 10 are wholly owned and managed by ZPEPC and have no independent
legal status. The eleventh is owned by the Zoushan municipal government and is an
independent legal entity.
(h) There are 66 county-level power companies. The county-level power companies
serve the retail consumer, sometimes directly or in some instances through township
and village level entities. In addition to operating the local distribution, most county
power companies have small hydro and thermal plants (see discussion on embedded
generation in (e) above). The ownership and management of the county enterprises
varies as shown in figure 1. The fragmentation below the county level entity is
substantial- there are 1,674 township distribution units, and about 40,000 village
level distribution units. The township and village level distribution units are
generally collectively owned, with operations franchised to private operators or done
by the collectives themselves.
(i) Many of the decentralized distribution units are considered to be inefficiently
operated, both technically and in staffing terms. Technical losses are high owing to
poor design practice - low-voltage lines are strung over long distances and
transformers are under-designed. In many cases, the transformers are locally
manufactured with sub-standard materials leading to high core losses. These
distribution units are also grossly overstaffed, often with inadequately trained
personnel.



Page 36
Figure 1: The Power Sector Structure in Zhejiang- December 1998
ZPEPC
I   -   -   -   - _   -     -     -   -    -   -     -   -     -    -
Generation
ZPEPC ODwned and Managed
I~ ~          l
East China Power Group |      l
Generation            I            Transmission           IIPPs
I-I
Distribution
l       Municipal Power Supply     l
l          Bureaus (MPSBs)
(10 ZPEPC Owned MSBs)
Distribution            I            Distribution          l              Distribution
1 Independent MPSB         l       26 County Power Supply                  38 County PSBs
(with 2 County PSBs)                  Bureaus (CPSBs)                 Local Govt. Owned & Managed
I      (ZPEPC Owned/Managed)
Corsumers
Future Plans
12.    The plan for asset and enterprise restructuring are as follows (See Figure 2):
(a) Thermal generation will be completely separated from ZPEPC. A separate entity,
called the Zhejiang Provincial G:rid Company (ZPGC) will be formed to hold the
transmission and distribution assets, as well as perform the functions of the Single
Buyer and Market System Operator (MSO).
(b) Generation Restructuring:
(i) All thermal grid generation stations that will participate in the provincial
power market are being separated and corporatized as independent limited
liability corporations. Most of the thermal generation stations have already
been corporatized - as of now only Zhenhai and Banshan remain to be
corporatized.. The formation of all thermal generation stations as LLCs is
expected to be completed by the end of 1999. Table 2. Lists the different
generation stations and their ownership structure.
(ii) The hydro owned by ZP]EPC (i.e. Jinshuitan, and Wuxijiang) will remain
closely linked to ZPGC. Other stations (e.g. Xinanjiang and Fuchunjiang)
which are owned ECEPGC and will remain as such.
(iii) Qinshan Nuclear will remain under existing ownership arrangements i.e. with
ZPEPC holding a minority stake.



Page 37
Figure 2: The Power Sector Structure in Zhejiang - December 2000
Zhejiang Provincial Grid Company (ZPGC)
.                       ~~~~~~~~~East China Power Group
Generation formerly owned and                                                       Generation
managed directly by ZPEPC              Market System Operator
(see Figure 3)                 ___
Single Buyer
Transmission
Distribution                   To be gradually
_ 10 Municipal Power Supply               brought under ZPGC
Bureaus ( MPSBs )                management and control
Distribution                         DiopStrButio                     Distribution
1 Independent MPSB                Formed as Limited Liability Cos  Formed as Limited Liability Cos.
Consumers                                             l
(c) Distribution Reform and Restructuring (1999-2000):
(i) All county Power Supply Bureaus CPSBs will be formed as limited liability
corporations (LLCs). In 1999, five CPSBs wholly owned and managed by
ZPEPC will be formed as LLCs in year 2000. Forty of the remaining CPSBs
will be formed as LLCs. By 2001 all remaining CPSBs will be formed as
LLCs.
(ii) ZPGC will take over the management of the independent CPSBs, and
increase their ownership stake in these CPSBs by investing in them. In the
three year period 1999-2001, ZPGC will invest around 1.4 billion USD in
upgrading distribution systems at the municipal and county level.
(iii) Complete a process of staff certification to determine the appropriate staffing
levels in the CPSBs and the township/village level entities. Currently, there
are over 40,000 staff employed by these independent CPSBs and
township/village entities.
Technical assistance will be provided under the project to evaluate and develop a strategy
for restructuring distribution operations in Zhejiang.



Page 38
Table 2: Thermal Generation Corporatization Plan (Completion by end-1999)
Station/Company Name         Capacity     ZPEPC Stake    Other Investors
Wenzhou I                      250 MW          Nil        ZPEPDC 66.9%
WPDC 33.1
Wenzhou CCGT                   300 MW          Nil        ZPEPDC47%
WPDC 53%
Wenshou II                     600 M W         Nil        Sithe 40%
ZPEPDC 30%
VWPDC 30%
Changxing Huaneng              250 MVV         Nil        Huaneng 100%
Jiaxing                        600 MW         30%         ZPEPDC 70%
Dongnan Power Co.                             25%         Listed shares 34%
(Zhejiang South East Co.)     1,410 MW                    ZPEPDC 41%
- Taizhou                      250 M1W
- Shaoshan
Beilungang Ii,200 M               W1,         70%         ZPEPDC32%
Beilungang II                 1,800 M W        36%        ZPEPDC 34%
ECEPGC 30%
7.henhai * ~~~~---~------------------- ....................__._
- Units 1 and 2                250 MW          Nil        Huaneng 100%
- Units 3 and 4                400 MW         75%         ZPEPDC 25%
- Units 5 and 6                400 MW        39.12%       ZPEPDC 60.88%
13anshan *
- Units 2 and 3                 oo0MW         100%
- Unit 4                       125 MW         100%
- Unit 5                       125 MW          Nil        ZPEPDC 50%
IHangzhou City 50%
The restructung of Zhenhai and Banshan to form limited liability corporations is a more complex
process owing to different ownership structures for individual units and difficulties in agreeing on
valuations with investors.
Corporate Governance of Generation and Minimizing Generator Market Power
13.    A clearly recognized problem of the restructuring strategy is that ZPEPC continues to
maintain a stake in generation, as well as operates the market through ZPGC. There are two
concerns: (i) in scheduling dispatch, ZPGC could favor generation in which its parent ZPEPC has
an ownership interest; (ii) the generation firmrs in which ZPEPC (and also ZPEPDC) have an
ownership interest, although separate, could conceivably collude in their price bidding strategies,
leading to prices well in excess of marginal costs. Given the constraints to divesting ZPEPC and
ZPEPDC of their substantive ownership stakes in generation over the medium-term, one of the
proposed approaches being considered to minimize the potential for collusion is shown in Figure
3 and described below. Indications are that the Government may prescribe guidelines for the
complete ownership separation of generation from the transmission and market operator,
obviating the need to create an asset holding entity.
(a) Form ZPEPC, principally as an asset holding entity, holding investments in
independent generation and the Grid Company. The core ZPGC (transmission and
distribution) entity will be formed with a strong and independent management group.
(b) Ensure that the Market System Operator and Single Buyer functions operate as ring-
fenced entities within ZPGC.



Page 39
(c) Create all grid generation stations as separate corporations and not permit any asset
mergers until the relative market share of each generator during critical peak periods,
and their market power potential can be ascertained.7  Mergers would be allowed
only after there is adequate experience from market operation to allow the regulator
to informed decisions.
Figure 3: Generation Asset Holding and Corporate Governance Structure
State Power CorporatIon
Provinclal/Local Govemment    Private Equity  Public Shareholders
Investment Companies      Investors         NYSE and London
A & B Shareholders
Zhejiang Provincial Electric
Power Company (ZPEPC)
Multiple Generation Compfnies
100% ownership                                                            *l r
Jointventure    l     Indepem dent Powe.r   PublclyListedT
Genro .Companies       Producers PP)         GtigCos.
Zhejiang Provincial
Grid Company (ZPGC)
(d) Disallow the merger of ZPEPC and ZPEPDC ownership interests, representing
central government and provincial government ownership stakes respectively. This
merger was once under consideration, but this idea has now been dropped to create
more diverse ownership in the generation sector.
(e) Each generation station will have a separate board of directors with the composition
adjusted to minimize the potential for collusive behavior. Although it is recognized
that this alone cannot prevent collusion, it is a step in the right direction towards
independent generator operation.
E. Power Sector Regulation in Zhejiang
14.    To supplement the on-going efforts to implement a power market and corporatize the
power enterprises in Zhejiang, it is necessary to establish an adequate regulatory framework to
oversee the market and the power enterprises. The effort to create a provincial level regulatory
system in Zhejiang, builds on earlier policy work done by the World Bank. In 1995-96, the
World Bank and the Ministry of Electric Power jointly prepared a report on regulating the
Chinese power sector.' This work led to: (i) a definition of the basic principles of power sector
7 This task is expected to be done by the Zhejiang Regulatory Agency.
'China: Power Sector Regulation in a Socialist Market Economy, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 361, March 1997.



Page 40
regulation; (ii) an evaluation of possible institutional structures for conducting regulation in
China; and (iii) a definition of the scope of regulatory tasks required at the national and provincial
level.
15.    Recent Government administrative reforms at the Central government level, such as the
abolition of the former Ministry of Electric Power and the transfer of its regulatory
responsibilities to SETC, provide a basis to begin defining and implementing formal regulatory
processes. The institutional form and functional responsibilities of the Central level regulatory
agency within SETC still need to be clearly defined. This makes key decisions on allocating
regulatory responsibilities between the Central and Provincial level difficult to coordinate.
Despite these drawbacks, Zhejiang has a considerable amount of "tacit" flexibility in developing
a regulatory system for implementation, by virtue of being an SDPC-designated pilot province to
undertake comprehensive power sector reforms. As a first step, there is general agreement
between the provincial and national level regulatory entities9 to proceed with the development of
a framework of regulations and procedures to enable the trial operation of the generation market.
The current approach is to proceed with the assumption that a (power) department within the
Provincial Economic and Planning Commission will be the regulator. This department will
coordinate its decisions with other central and provincial government entities who may continue
to hold specific decision-making responsibilities.
16.    A team from National Economic Research Associates (NERA, UK) have been hiredo to
assist in developing the basic design of the regulatory system that may be implemented in
Zhejiang. The recommendations of this effort were discussed at a workshop in Hangzhou on July
6, 1999. Participants at this workshop, including representatives from SETC, State Power,
ECEPGC, Zhejiang PETC, Zhejiang Pricing -Bureau and the State Organization Department. At
this workshop ZPEPC presented the options for implementing the regulatory framework. The
following were the main conclusions:
(a) The option of establishing the regulatory agency as a separate entity funded by
license fees was preferred to creating the agency as part of the Provincial Economic
and Trade Commission which would require a budget allocation.
(b) A provincial level Law which specified the market structure, form of the regulatory
agency and its functions would be necessary. In order for such a provincial Law to
be drafted and submitted to the Provincial People's Congress an amendment to the
existing national Electricity Law would be required. However, it would be possible
to present the Law for consideration by the Provincial Congress on the basis of
directive from the State Council.
(c) The draft of the provincial Law would be completed and submitted to the relevant
provincial and central governmenrt agencies for review in November 1999.
17.    A final report with a complete packag,z comprising the draft Law and licenses will be
submitted in September.
18.    Follow-up technical assistance support to implement the regulatory framework and
support training of regulatory staff has been discussed. ZPEPC will prepare a list of regulations
and implementing procedures that they expect would be needed for implementation. It has been
decided to issue the RFP for the next phase of regulatory support once an appropriate counterpart
team from the Zhejiang provincial governmen.t agencies can be constituted. This is expected to
9 The agencies involved are: The State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC); The State Power Corporation (SP); The Zhejiang Provincial
Pricing Bureau (ZPPB); The Zhejiang Economic and Planning Commission (ZEPC); and the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(ZPEPB).
10 Funded under the PHRD grant for project preparation.



Page 41
be possible by end- 1999. For the present, agreement has been reached with ZPEPC to include
around US$ 3 million in the project for regulatory framework implementation.
F. Upgrading Management Systems and Staff Capabilities
19.   In order to develop the commercial capabilities required to operate in a market
environment, management systems and staff skills need to be upgraded. The main elements of
this effort include:
* Financial Management Information Systems (FMIS)
* Generation Planning Systems and Training
* Tariff Study and Training
* Management Training Program
* Corporate Intranet
Financial Management Information Systems (FMIS)
20.   Under the earlier Zhejiang Power Development Project, ZPEPC contracted Coopers &
Lybrand (now Price Waterhouse Coopers - PWC) to develop the system requirements and
detailed design of its Financial Management Information System. This was completed and
implementation formally launched in September 1998.
21.   The main elements of the on-going FMIS implementation involves:
(a) Refining the business requirements for financial information and incorporating them
in a new accounting policy and manual.
(b) A new chart of accounts and budgeting system.
(c) Selecting an appropriate Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software package and
new hardware systems - SAP has been chosen for implementation on an IBM client-
server platform.
(d) Introducing the SAP system for a new general ledger, consolidation of accounts,
financial management, budgeting, project accounting, management reports, fixed
assets, accounts receivable and accounts payable. This is based on four SAP modules
- Financial Information (FI), Cost Accounting (CO), Asset Management (AM),
Project Management (PS).
22.   ZPEPC has made good progress in towards the pilot implementation of the new FMIS in
six sites:
(a) ZPEPC Headquarters and Shaoxing Power Supply Bureau (trial operation
commenced in June 1999)
(b) Ningbo Power Supply Bureau and Beilungang Power Plant (trials to begin in mid-
August 1999)
(c) Hangzhou Power Supply Bureau and Banshan Power Plant (trials to begin in
September 1999)
23.   The trials are expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2000.



Page 42
24.    ZPEPC is preparing a broader program for expanding the FMIS system. First, two new
SAP modules are to be acquired - the Preventive Maintenance (PM) and Materials Management
(MM) modules. Second, the system will be implemented in seven more municipal power supply
bureaus, two or more power stations, and in subsidiary companies (i.e. Fuel Supply Company,
Construction Company and Materials Supply Company). While it was originally planned to
finance the next phase of FMIS implementation under the Tongbai Project, it is now planned to
utilize savings realized during the implementation of the Zhejiang Project. Estimated cost the
next phase is US$6 million.
Generation Planning Capacity Building
25.    Generation planning techniques were first introduced into China in 1986 under the first
Zhejiang project (i.e. Beilungang Thermal Power Project). Planning techniques and technology
were transferred to Beijing Economic Research Institute (BERI). BERI has successfully provided
consultancy services in this field to the Chinese power sector since that time.
26.    Subsequently, the Zhejiang Power Development Project, transferred transmission and
distribution planning technology to provincial and municipal planning departments and design
institutes." Based on the success of these earlier programs, Zhejiang have requested technical
assistance in generation planning at the provincial level.
27.    The Tongbai Pumped Storage Project will include capacity building assistance in
generation planning. The staff of ZPEPC, the future Zhejiang regulatory body, and associated
agencies will be trained in the use of modeni methodology and software for electricity generation
development planning. These objectives will be achieved through:
(a) selection and procurement of appropriate software and hardware for power system
generation planning;
(b) development of a least cost power system expansion plan for the Zhejiang province
for the next 10-15 years; and
(c) training of the staff in power system planning.
28.    A key principle to be followed would be that the methodology adopted and the software
to be acquired be appropriate for the future competitive market environment in electricity
generation and later in supply. The software wvill be used for indicative system development
planning, evaluation of investment proposals, and tariff regulation.
29.    A detailed terms of reference has been prepared and the SPN was published in the July
16, 1999, Issue No 514. The Request for Proposals will be issued October 1999. It is expected
that the consultants will be selected and mobilized in February/March 2000.
Tariff Study and Training
30.    Power pricing principles were also studied under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project,
which led to a general awareness of the princiiples of marginal cost pricing throughout China.
However, until recently various constraints have impeded the introduction of cost based price
structures at the consumerlevel. These included the multiple track pricing system and the local
"1     The success of the distribution and transmission planning capacity building effort in reflected in: (i) the wider adoption of the
computerized distribution planning system, piloted for Hangzhou and Ningbo - over a two-year period the system will be transferred to 55
municipal and county level distribution entities (with the purchase of additional "keys"); (ii) the computerized transmission planning system is
now being extensively used by ZPEPC, and was used to designi the transmission component of the proposed Tongbai project.



Page 43
level surcharges which tended to grossly distort structures which had been finely tuned at the
wholesale level. With the banning of local surcharges and approval of the provincial pricing
commission of a unified tariff structure for Zhejiang, the opportunity now arises to refine power
pricing structures at the consumer level. In addition as distribution sector rationalization proceeds
and market implementation is advanced, the efficient cost reflective consumer tariffs are
becoming more important. In view of these factors, ZPEPC have requested technical assistance
to develop capabilities within ZPEPC and its affiliated and the provincial regulatory staff to:
(a) evaluate, compute and implement a unified consumer tariff structure applicable to the
whole province.
(b) develop a basis for electricity retail pricing regulation, and undertake future tariff
reviews and revisions.
(c) define an implement viable transition strategy.
31.    Technical assistance will be provided under the Tongbai Pumped Storage Project to
provide training in principles and methodologies of consumer tariff regulation to relevant
personnel in the different Power Supply Bureaus and the regulatory body.
32.    This work will be focused on the downstream segment of the power supply chain, i.e.,
from the bulk supply points to the end-users. A detailed terms of reference has been prepared
and the SPN was published in the July 16. The Request for Proposals will be issued October
1999. It is expected that the consultants will be selected and mobilized in February/March 2000.
Management Training Program
33.    A program of management and staff training has been developed to upgrade the
management and commercial skills of staff. The program is designed to expose as many staff as
possible to best practice in utility management and governance. Table 3, provides a brief
description of the program. A budget of 2.5 million US$ has been provided for the training
program under the Tongbai Project.
Table 3: Description of Management Training Program
No. of Persons              Schedule
to be Trained
1  Senior Management Training         2 groups x 15   2001-02
(2 to 3 year MBA programs - in    persons/group   2003-04
China and overseas)
2  Distribution Company Management    3 groups x 10   Start 2"d semester of 2000 - completion
persons/group   by end-2001
3  Twinning Arrangements with         2 groups x 2    Start in 2001. Six (6) months per
overseas utilities                persons/group   program
4  Corporate Governance Training      4 groups x 10   Start 2nd semester of 2000. Completion
persons/group   within four years.
5  Power Market Management            4 groups x 10   Commence in January 2000. Six months
persons/group   per group
6  Conditional Maintenance            3 groups x 10   Start after technical study is completed.
persons/group   Completion within 1 8 months.



Page 44
G. Managing Reform hnrrp.nsention
34.    A Steering Committee has been establish;d to, dc - c design, preparation and
implementation of the planned power sector re-orms in e -7,iaag. Memrbers of the Steering
Committee represent the relevant Provincial gi  i   aoen-s Cenitral government agencies,
ZPEPC, the generation companies and power slpp'y ,, _us t.- he Steering Committee is headed
by Mr. Chen Jimin, General Director, ZPE1EC.
35.    Two working groups have also been formn^led Io. canny out thle rnarket design, corporate
restructuring and regulatory tasks required. The firs.L 1 7   a nWGI), will be responsible
for the development and implementation of the ger er1 i an rark'-t-his group is being led by
Mr. Ying.
36.    The second working group (WG2), vw'8iP be resa.e r^r designing and preparing the
regulatory procedures and rules to regulate the pcweller seetor i-Zl Jiang - this group is being led
by Mr. Chen Qingda. Key participants in fhis working group are stafr onIm the Provincial
Economic and Planning Commission and tha           Pri -i-,~c:  Eureau. wlho will assume the
power sector regulatory functions when the )urcau s' aS
37.    A Power Market Reform Office has been st , .       ghou, and staffed with 5 full-time
professionals and support staff. The Power Iark-r Ref-bm ,r C ,6ice vvill be responsible for: (a)
coordinating the work of the consultants employed to assist b  workig groups; (b) ensuring that
the information required by the working groups and tae zacsulltrns are collected in a timely
manner.



Page 45
Annex 5: Organization Charts
Tongbai Pump Storage Plant
Tongbai
Management
Company
ZPEPC (ZPCC)
(Zheijiang Pover ConstrucUon Company)
Designer                     Supervisor
Consulting Company                    SBC
_    .........................  , Ft x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  .   ....   ..........
Civil Work Contractor I    Civil Work Contractor 2    Equipment Contractor I    Equipment Contractor 2          Installation Contractor      Expand as Required
Type title here            Type title here             Type title here



Page 46
Zhejiang Power Construction Company
Manager
Chief AccountarntL
Schedule 8&Account           Construction         Equipment & Materials         General Office
Management                Maaem|    Management
{Planning & Scheduling   - - _                     -- Quality  Commercial Affairs  Multiple Services
_   Accounting    -p        Safety                  Equipment             Document Cn
_   Finances     - [     Schedule      7           Materials         _ nternatinal  irs
---C       t =           Technical Documents               _Pesonnel & Salary
Project Tendering       Hydraulic Structuresi
{Hydraulic Machinery J
Electrical
l&C
Geology



Page 47
Construction Management for Zhejiang 600 kV Power Transmission and Substation Component
Zhejiang Provincial Extra High Voltage Transmission and Distribution Engineering Construction Co.
L   Director       |
Construction                                                                                                    -_ _                    _
Supervision                                      _                  -                  _      -L                                                                                Design
Agency             Transnmssion               Substation               Planning and              Procurement                  Cost &                   Quality &               Team
Une                   Managemen                  Program                  & Contract                 Financial                   Safety
Management                     Ma                         mManagement                                   Managemert                Management
Shaoxing Power            Taizhou Power             Ningbo Power             Wenzhou Power             Hangzhou Power
Distrbution Co.          Distribution Co.          Distribution Co.          Distribution Co.          Distribution Co.
Cooperation              Cooperation               Cooperation               Cooperation               Cooperation
Unk                      Unit                       Uni                      Unk                        Unkt
Subproj                  Subp rojects         Subprejects (contractoI        Subprojects               Subprojects
(contractoij             (contracto                 Yongxi sis               (contractor               (contractoi
Zhuji sis           Tongbai to Zhji line          Ningbo sls               Wenzhousfs                 Xiaoshan sls
Tongbai to Zhuji Une    Ningbo to Wenzhou line    Ningbo to Wenzhou Line    Ningbo to Wenzhou liner



Page 48
Annex 6: Economic Analysis on Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Station
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
A. Least Cost Analysis
1.    A least cost study was carried out by the Beijing Economic Research Institute of
Water Resources and Electric Power (<3ERI), covering 1998-2030 (study period) with a focus
on 1998-2015. The study was carried out using an optimization model, called GESP, that
determines the optimal capacity and generation mix to meet the demand with the minimum
cost (net present value of investment and operating cost). It concerns all potential candidates
including (a) 300 MW, 600 MW coal-fired units. (b) hydropower stations. (c) nuclear power
stations. (d) pumped storage power stations, and (e) 300 MW combined cycle and 100 MW
gas turbine fueled by distillate. The price of distillate for the base case was assumed to be
US$21 per bbl, corresponding to a crude oil price of US$14 per bbl. The installed capacity of
Tongbai station shared by other provinces (municipality) in east China region was modeled
by an exported peak power. With 12% of social discount rate, the calculation shows that the
proposed project is the first candidate of the least-cost generation expansion program. For the
case without Tongbai project, the first alternative investment of the least-cost generation
expansion program would be 11 * 100 MIW gas turbine units.
2.    Sensitivity analysis confirmed the robustness of the proposed project, which remains
the first investment of the expansion program under a wide range of assumptions:
(a) The project will be still required by year 2004-2005 even if the electricity growth
rate would slow from the projected 6.6% to 5.5% in 1999, from 7.8% to 5.5% in
2000, and from 7.1% to 5.0% during 2001 - 2005;
(b) The project will be still required by year 2004-2005 even if the daily minimum
load rate and daily average load rate are 4% higher than the base case;
(c) The project would be still required by year 2004 - 2005 even if the investment of
gas turbine were decreased to 1740.0 Yuan/kW;
(d) The project would be less economical than gas turbine units only if the fuel price
of the latter were 22.0% lower than the base case (i.e. corresponding to a crude
oil price of US$11.50 per bbl);
(e) The project would be less economical than 600 MW coal-fired thermal plant only
if the investment cost of the latter were 33% lower than the base case (3666
Yuan/kW compared to 5471 Yuan/kW);
(f) The project would not be the first investment of the Zhejiang power generation
system only if its investment cost were 19% higher than the base case (3760
Yuan/kW compared to 31665 Yuan/kW);
(g) The project would be still required by year 2004 - 2005 if the coal price increased
by 10% and oil price decreaLsed by 10%;
(h) The project would be delayed by 1 year under the combination of low load
growth in case (a), coal price increased by 10%, oil price decreased by 10% and
project's investment cost increased by 10%;



Page 49
3.    The power development program and the balance between power demand and supply
are presented as table 1.
B. Economic Internal Rate of Return
4.     The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the proposed project was calculated
based on demonstrated "willingriess to pay". The generation cost of Tongbai project at 15%
capacity factor is 0.626 Yuan/kWh composed of 0.432 Yuan/kWh for investment cost, 0.057
Yuan/kWh for O&M cost and 0.137 Yuan/kWh for pumping cost. The current power
purchase price of 0.80 Yuan/kWh for combined cycle units running 2,900 hours per year
(33% capacity factor) was assumed to be a conservative proxy of "willingness to pay". The
calculation yielded an EIRR of 16.0%, which is higher than the 12% social discount rate.
C. Dynamic Benefits Analysis
5.    The chronological simulation was carried by a generation optimal dynamic simulation
model, called GODS. The calculation indicates that whatever the Tongbai pumped storage
power station will be built or not, the Zhejiang grid currently has enough fast ramping
capacity to keep its frequency in a rational range. The construction of Tongbai project can
improve system reliability. If the dynamic benefit of EENS reduction is incorporated into
project economic analysis, the EIRR increases from 16.0% to 16.3%.
E. Project Risk
6.    To complement the above deterministic approach, risk analyses have been performed
using a probabilistic method to assess the impact of the perceived risk factors that might
affect the return of the project.
Without Environmental Costs
7.    The results of 3000 Monte Carlo Simulations are summarized in Chart 1.
Table 5 Expected EIRR and Variance
Expected value                       15.5%
Standard Deviation                    1.3%
Minimum                              10.3%
Maximum                              19.8%
Coefficient of Variation              0.085
8.    The expected EIRR, based on the weighted average of all simulated combinations is
15.5% (with a standard deviation of 1.3%), which is 0.5% lower than the base case value
without consideration of project risk. The minimum and maximum EIRR, under the
considered uncertainties, are 10.3% and 19.8% respectively. The probability of EIRR lower
than 12% is 2%.



Page 50
Table 1: Power Balance Table of Zhejiang Province
(Unit MW)
1998      2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2007       2010       2012       2015
PeakLoad                  9000      10500      11291    12142 _- 13058          14336     15688      17719      21-28      23846  -28288
Installed Capacity       12223      14998     15201      15422      16351      18052      19836      22336      26236      29236      34736
In Which: Thermal         9621      11695     11818      12039      12868      13569      14168      16168      18568      21568      27068
Hydro             2002       2303      2303       2303       2403       2803       3188       3488       4988       4988       4988
Storage              0        400       480        480        480       1080       1880       2080       2080       2080       2080
Import             600        600        600       600        600        600        600        600        600        600        600
Retirement                   0        400       477        480        460      569.5        381          0          0          0          0
Reserve Rate              35.8       42.8       34.6       27.0       25.2       25.9      26.4       26.1       23.2       22.6       22.8
Expanded Capacity            0       2125       680        700       1390       2370       2165       2500       3900       3000       5500      24330
(1) Thernal                  0       1725       600        700       1290       1370        980       2000       2400       3000       5500      19565
600 MW Coal                  0       1200       600          0        600        600        600       1800       1800        600       4800      12600
300 MW Coal                  0          0          0       600          0          0          Q          0          0          0          0        600
i25 MW Coai                  0        125         0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        125
Co-generation                0          0          0       100          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        100
Gas Turbine                  0          0          0         0        400        100          0        200        600        400        700       2400
Combined Cycle               0        400          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        400
Nuclear                      0          0          0          0       290        670        380          0          0       2000          0       3340
(2) Hydro                    0          0          0         0        100        400        385        300       1500          0          0       2685
Three Gorge                  0          0          0          0         0        300        300        300        900          0          0       1800
Huaguangtan                  0          0          0          0         0          0         85          0          0          0          0         85
Shanxi                       0          0          0         0        100        100          0          0          0          0          0        200
Tankeng                      0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0        600          0          0        600
(3) Pumped Storage           0        400         80         0          0        600        800        200          0          0          0       2080
Tianhuangping                0        400         80          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0        480
Tongbai                      0          0          0          0         0        600        600          0          0          0          0       1200
Wulongshan                   0          0          0          0         0          0        200        200          0          0          0        400



Page 51
Chart 3 Risk Variables Report for Tongbai
60%                            Risk Variable No. 1
50%                            Investmnent
40%                            Probabllih distnbution:
30%                           1 %1 0%150%_Z/45%
20%                            1 0 .91 0.951_  1 | 1.051    .
10%         m        m
%io  )  '-  3    1 l  I n IFreguency Distribution of EIRR
9   95       05  1
40'Zo. - -                     Risk Variable No.3 2-%                      ___    
30%                        1   Probability distributon:      I
20%    V          T        010              1 2 5 1 0%    10.2 5    12%
10%  . Rob
0. 0. 0  .8 1 1  1                                            lIl|
789   1 2                                                  Y6% 
________________                                    ~~~4%
50% -                          Risk Variable No.3                    2%
40% -WTP
30I --                        I Probability distributon:             0%
3 40%        .                   5%1 5%50%1 510                 |        %   %   %    %   %    %   %
20%-                               8           1                              -0.91 _  1 1.1  1 1.3
0%
0- 0  1  1        2 1                                         1
Cumulative Distributon of EIRR
P; 1 Iq   1.             . t Risk Variable No. 4
Construction time
60%                             Probabilit dstribution:
40% t/  70 /1 20%   5%                                                           ||
1~~~~~~1 o%                           I t                            %         21  l2 
20%
20%                                                                                                     -I
-1    0    1    2                                          Pr
lilt
40%                   ~~~Risk Variable No. 5              y  40%              ~-  
IIiI.~ ~~~~E chnerate
20%                             40%1 40%3  15%                                       % 5%  20%             %
10%  Ii~ll2I~+~  IJJj. 1.2                              8
1%   1        1I     1.   I0                                                0    0
-       1  ~2   3                                                   /0/        /o% %     %    %    %



Page 52
Annex 7: Financial Summary
China: Toncgbai Pumped Storage Project
Financial Viability at Project Level
1.    The Tongbai pumped storage plant is a joint investment by ZPEPC, East China Power
Group Incorporated, Shanghai Electric Power Company, and the power investment companies of
Zhejiang and Jiangsu Provinces, Shanghai City and Tiantai County. The power plant will be
formed into a limited liability company prior to commencement of operations. According to a
pre-investment agreement, the capacity available from the power plant will be distributed to the
provinces and municipality in which the shareholders are located in proportion to their aggregated
capital contributions, and the shareholders shall be responsible for the purchase of the on-grid
quantity and provision of pumping electricity. The investors have agreed to pay a two part tariff
for capacity and energy which will allow the company to meet its financial obligations and to
provide the investors with a 12 percent internal rate of return on equity invested, which may be
adjusted upwards in the event of a resurgence of local inflation. Financial analyses were
therefore carried out to determine the tariff required to provide this rate of return, under different
scenarios of pumping energy costs and annual generation. Tariff profiles were also calculated for
two cases: (i) for constant dividend, resulting in a reducing tariff as debts are repaid; and (ii) for a
constant tariff over 25 years resulting in a gradually increasing dividend. The objective of the
analyses was to verify that the projected tariffs would be competitive with other forms of
generation. These analyses yielded the foillowing results:
Pumping Cost 17 fen/kWh       Pumping Cost 21 fen/kWh
Operating Hours 1675          Operating Hours 1300
Varying    Levelized Tariff    Varying    Levelized Tariff
Tariff                        Tariff
Highest Tariff in operating    66.60          58.30          84.60          73.90
period fen/kWh
Average Tariff of first ten    58.60          58.30          74.30          73.90
years fen/kwh
FIRR on equity (net cash flow)  12%           12%             12%            12%
Debt/Service Coverage          1.95           2.22           1.95            2.22
2.     These average tariffs should be compared with those currently being paid for peak load
generation. ZPEPC has contracts with two combined cycle plants. For agreed operating hours of
2900 hours per year tariffs payable are 75 and 85 fen/kWh. It can be seen therefore that even for
operating hours of 1300 and the higher pumping cost, the average cost of Tongbai energy is in the
same order as that from a combined cycle plant with more than double operating hours. It can be
concluded that, for all cases considered, Tongbai energy is competitive.
3.     The form of the draft pre-investment agreement is consistent with current power purchase
arrangements in the Zhejiang grid. However, as noted in Annex 4, Zhejiang is introducing a
competitive generation market. Under this arrangement, ZPEPC and ZPEPDC share of Tongbai
generation could be bid into the market, either directly or through the market intermediary
responsible for bidding inter provincial energy into the market. Some price stability is likely to
be obtained through a contract for differences (CfDs). Given that the commissioning of the first
unit of the power plant will not be until 2005, it is also possible (even likely) that competitive
markets will have been introduced into all provinces of the East China grid and the Tongbai plant



Page 53
may be allowed to bid into the various markets. For this reason, further financial analyses were
carried out to determine the sensitivity of return on equity to market prices and the degree to
which average sale price could be reduced before financial viability of the power plant would be
threatened. Results are as follows:
Operating Hours 1675        Operating Hours 1300
Pumping Cost 17 fen/kWh      Pumping Cost 21 fen/kWh
75 fenlkWh    Break even    75 fen/kWh     Break even
tariff        tariff        tariff         tariff
Tariff fen/kWh                75             40            75             50
FIRR (after tax)             15.8%          0.0%          11.6%          0.0%
FIRR on equity (net cash flow  25.2%        0.0%          15.2%          0.0%
after tax)
Debt/Service Coverage        3.14           1.29          2.27           1.29
4.    The 75 fen/kWh tariff could be regarded as a lower bound estimate of a market based
tariff. Under this scenario, power sales will provide healthy returns to investors under base case
assumptions concerning energy sales and operating costs. Under worst case assumptions return
on equity is still acceptable at 15.2%. The break even tariff at 40 fen/kWh under base case
assumptions is lower than ZPEPC is currently paying for base load generation, and under worst
case assumptions is only slightly higher. Given the hedging facility offered by CfDs or similar
mechanisms that could succeed them, price drops of this magnitude are highly unlikely. It is
therefore concluded that the Tongbai plant is financially viable.
Financing Plan
5.    The total financing requirements (including interest during construction (IDC) of
US$156.4 million equivalent and front end fee of US$3.2 million) are estimated at US$904
million equivalent. The foreign exchange required for the project cost estimated at US$320
million will be financed by the proposed Bank loan. Twenty percent of the total financing
requirement of the physical components will be financed by ZPEPC and other equity investors.
For the transmission component, ZPEPC is the sole equity investor, while for the pumped storage
plant there are seven equity investors contributing in the following proportions:
East China Electric Power Group Company               10%
Zhejiang Provincial Electrical Power Company          25%
Shanghai Electric Power Company                       17%
Shennen Shareholding Company                          20%
Jiangsu International Trust and Investment Company    13%
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Development Company    10%
Tiantai Hydropower Development Company                 5%
6.    The remaining local costs and IDC for both foreign and local loans estimated at
US$407.3 million equivalent will be covered by loans from the Industrial and Commercial Bank
of China (ICBC). A written commitment has been issued to ZPEPC. The risk of unavailability
of counterpart funds is extremely low because (a) Chinese banks are competing for financing
good power projects for which debt repayment is secured by agreed pricing formula, and (b)
ZPEPC has strong balance sheets and solid repayment records.



Page 54
Viability of the Borrower - ZPEPC
7.    Because ZPEPC is in the process of separating its generation functions from its
transmission and distribution activities, its audited historical financial statements up to FY97
which included generation assets and liabilities cannot serve as a basis for evaluating its current
financial position and prospects. Accordingly for the purpose of the Bank's appraisal of the
project, ZPEPC has prepared pro-forma accounts for FY98 in which its accounts are presented as
a transmission and distribution entity, with its interests in generation represented as Long Term
Investments. After the incorporation of its generation assets as limited liability companies by the
end of 1999, ZPEPC will present its legally required financial statements in this format, which
exclude generation. Based on ZPEPC proforma (unaudited) financial statements for 1998,
ZPEPC is highly capitalized (debt accounts for less than 26 percent of the total capitalization),
entertains comfortable liquidity (currenit ratio of 1.5) and adequate ability to meet debt service
obligations (debt service coverage close to 1.5 times). Its net profits before income taxes
provided a modest return on equity of 1.7 percent. This eamings performance is considerably
below that ZPEPC has reported for previous years, when its accounts were consolidated to
include its generation activities. This is because power generation operations have been more
profitable than its transmission and distribution operations and have enabled ZPEPC to
comfortably meet the Bank's 30 percent self-financing and debt service covenants. The pro-
forma results for FY98 have been adversely affected by a slowdown in sales growth (6% (1997)
to 5% (1998) and very large investmrents in distribution upgrading associated with government
economic stimulus measures.
8.    ZPEPC financial projections for 1999-2005 are shown in the Financial Summary below.
They show that ZPEPC is expected to maintain a prudent and strong financial position throughout
the forecast period. The annual debt/equity ratios are projected to stay below 50:50 percent and
the debt service coverage will exceed 1.5 times. After dipping to 25 percent in 1998 with very
large financing requirements in that year, self financing ratio is projected to recover to 44 percent
in 1999 and generally to remain above 40 percent throughout the period of the projections.
Financial Management System
9.    Under the previous Bank loan, the Zhejiang Power Development Project, funds were
provided for assistance in setting up an integrated computerized financial management and cost
information system (FMIS) based on inlernational best practices. International consultants, Price
Waterhouse Coopers have been advising ZPEPC on the installation of the new FMIS. This has
led to the preparation of detailed accounting policy manuals and the installation of new online
systems, principally for the General Ledger, Project Accounting, Cost Center Accounting and
Budgeting. The project has now reached the implementation stage with SAP software and IBM
hardware for major modules being installed at four pilot sites; ZPEPC head office, Beilungang
power plant and two power supply bureazus. This first implementation will be completed by the
end of 1999. A further two sites will be established by mid 2000 - at Banshan power plant and
Hangzhou power supply bureau. Expansion of the FMIS at all ZPEPC main centers, and to
cover non-core finctions, will then be carried out financed by savings from the Zhejiang Power
Development Project.
10.   ZPEPC financial management system, including the accounting and auditing policies,
standards, and internal control, as well as the accounting arrangements for management of the
proposed project have been reviewed and the report of the review is included as Annex 8.
Accounting standards currently on issue in China are generally consistent with the relevant IAS.
The China Accounting Standards Committee is managing a program to develop additional



Page 55
standards which, when complete, will constitute Chinese GAAP that is consistent with IAS.
However, ZPEPC is still confined to other rules or set formnats stipulated by MOF and MOEP and
could not prepare financial statements that fully conform with IAS. ZPEPC, has received advice
and assistance from its FMIS consultants - Price Waterhouse Coopers who have identified the
few ZPEPC accounting practices that are inconsistent with LAS.
11.   ZPEPC existing systems for accounting and financial management are satisfactory.
However, there are areas, including cash management, and modem financial management
practices, where improvements are still being made to meet modem financial management
standards.
Financial Performance Targets
12.   To promote prudent and sound financial management and adequate tariffs, ZPEPC agreed
that the following financial covenants used in previous Bank loans would be retained for the
proposed project:
(a) ZPEPC shall, each fiscal year, produce funds from internal sources sufficient to
finance at least 30 percent of ZPEPC average capital expenditures for the current
year, the previous year and the next forecast year;
(b) ZPEPC shall not incur any new debt, without the Bank's approval, if its estimated
annual net revenues for each fiscal year, would not be sufficient to cover its debt
service requirements, at least 1.5 times; and
(c) By June 1 of each year, ZPEPC would furnish to the Bank a rolling eight-year
financial plan containing projected income statements, funds flow statements, and
balance sheets.



Page 56
Financial Summary for ZPEPC
Year Ending December 31: 1998 through 2005
(In Million of RMB)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004         2005
Income Statement
Sales (GWh)              40,711   42,794   46,006   49,575   53,653   58,209   63,079   68,662
Revenues                 14,115   15,337   19,391   22,457   25,029   27,155   29,490   32,099
Average Price (Fen/kWh)   34.67    35.84    42.15    45.30    46.65    46.65    46.75   46.75
Operating Income           (297)   (237)     283    1,111    1,398    1,500    1,496    1,838
Net Income (after tax)      272      231     233      447      511     589      566       723
Funds Statement
Intemal Sources            1056    1,553    2,476    3,502    4,026    4,315    4,497    4,904
Borrowings                 2800    6,302    6,280    3,610    1,813    2,072    2,443    2,730
Equity Investments          940    1,407    1,424      99
Total Sources               4796    9,262   10,181    7,211    5,839    6,386    6,940    7,634
Capital Expenditure        4291    8580    8518    5213    2843    3096    3746          4197
Working Capital            (274)    (81)      87    (362)      246      414      166      222
Increase/Decrease
Debt Service                779      764    1,576    2,361    2,749    2,876    3,028   3,215
Total Applications      4796    9,262   10,181    7,211    5,839    6,386    6,940    7,622
Balance Sheet
Current Assets            9,831    9,542   10,130    9,702    9,581    9,682    9,599    9,613
Less Current Liabilities  6,613    5,847    5,780    5,564    5,304    5,113    5,008    4,808
Net Fixed Assets         13,499   20,787   27,542   30,525   30,938   31,532   32,481    33,638
Investments               4,835    5,112    5,358    5,682    5,936    6,072    6,329   6,626
Deferred Assets             77      136      183      190      176     167      165       167
Total Assets (minus   21,629   29,730  :37,433   40,535   41,327   42,341   43,556   45,236
current liabilities)
Debt                      5,629   12,104  '18,155   20,710   20,991   21,416   22,076   23,023
Equity                   16,000   17,625   '9,279   19,824   20,335   20,925   21,491    22,214
Long Term Liabilities
and Equity            21,629   29,730   37,433   40,535   41,327   42,341   43,556   45,236
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of      -        -    1.5%    4.9%     5.6%     5.5%     5.1%     5.7%
Revenue
Net Income after tax as a %  1.9%    1.5%     1.2%     1.9%    2.0%     2.2%     1.9%     2.3%
of Revenue
Retum on Equity (%)         1.7%     1.3%     1.2%    2.2%     2.5%     2.8%     2.6%     3.2%
Retum on Net Fixed Assets   2.0%     1.1%     0.8%     1.5%    1.6%     1.9%     2.6%     3.2%
Debt Service Coverage         1.5      3.5     2.3      1.5      1.6      1.5     1.5       1.5
Percent of Total Capital     25%      44%     41%      31%      44%      54%     47%       48%
Expenditures financed by
Intemal Sources
Current Ratio                 1.5      1.6     1.7      1.7      1.8      1.9      1.9      2.0
Debt as % Total              26%      40%     48%      51%      49%      48%     49%       49%
Capitalization



Page 57
Notes to Financial Summary for ZPEPC
The major assumptions used for ZPEPC Financial Projections are as follows:
General
(a) The general inflation rates assumed are: Local 3%. and Foreign: 2.4%
(b) The baseforeign exchange rate used is US$1=8.3 RMB. Foreign exchange rates are assumed
to vary according to relative changes in foreign and local inflation rates to maintain
purchasing power parity.
(c) The interest rates are assumed to be 6.2 percent per annum for local loans and repayable in
10 years; 7.3 percent for IBRD loan with commitment charge of 0.75 percent and repayable
over 20 years including a 5-years grace period.
Income Statements
(d) Energy sales projections are calculated based on load forecasts of ZPEPC. Energy sales are
assumed to grow by 7-8% percent per annum during the period 2000-2005.
(e) The tariffs are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues would be adequate for
achieving the minimum financial performance targets.
(f) The cost ofpurchasedpower has been based on existing power purchase agreements which
have been established on the cost of generation plus debt service and provision of a 10%
return on equity to the plant investors.
(g) The average line loss rate of ZPEPC is assumed to be 4.73 percent in 1999 and 5% for each
year thereafter.
(h) The annual depreciation rate is assumed to be 5.75 percent.
(i) The average wages are assumed to increase in line with local inflation.
(j) Under the operation and maintenance costs, material cost is assumed to increase in line for
forecast, local inflation rates and maintenance cost is assumed to be 1.5% of fixed assets.
(k) Income tax has been assessed at 33% of taxable income.
(1) Urban and education tax rates are 7 and 3 percent of VAT, respectively.
(m) Value-added tax (VAT) is 17 percent and the effective rate is assumed to be 5.9% per cent of
operating revenues after deducting VAT included in the costs for fuel and materials.
Balance Sheet
(n) Inventories are assumed to increase with the value of the gross fixed assets in service.
(o) Accounts receivable is assumed to be equal to 1 month's revenue - equivalent to an average
collection period of 30 days, less bad debt reserves, which are calculated based on 0.3 percent
of year end balances (per PRC regulations).
(p) Other accounts' receivable are assumed to increase by 10 percent per year.



Page 58
(q) Fixed assets cost include costs of work-in-progress, completed during the year, on
transmission, distribution expansion and renovations. These costs include construction,
commitment fees, interest and foreign losses capitalized during construction and commitment
fees. No annual revaluation of fixed assets is assumed.
(r) Accounts payable is assumed t.o be equal to 15 days of purchased power and operation and
maintenance costs.
The following accounts are included in Equity:
(s) Capital Reserves includes "One Fen Electric Construction Fund" (see Fund Flow Statement).
Up to year 2000, PRC regulations allow power sectors to collect from users one cent (RMB
0.01) one every unit of electricity used. The Fund represents government's additional capital
contributions.
(t) Earned surplus includes Development Fund and Surplus Fund. In accordance with PRC
relevant regulations, current year's net income after taxes are split between Development
Fund (51 percent) and Surplus Fund (49 percent). However, Employee Welfare Fund,
calculated based on five percent of net income after tax, is subtracted from the Surplus Fund
and listed as a long-term liabilily since it is designated for employee benefits and is not
available for profit distribution. Surplus Fund therefore receives 44 percent of net income
after taxes.
(u) Capital Surplus includes Custorner Contribution. Up to year 2000, the power entity is
entitled to collect connection charges that amount to about RMB 800 million (annually).
Funds Flow Statement
Capital expenditures are assumed to be finaniced 30 percent from internal sources of funds and 70 percent
from bank loans.



Page 59
Annex 8: Financial Management Assessment
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Background
1.    This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Project as
conducted by Peter Cordukes, consultant and Tony Shen, Financial Management Specialist, EACCF, to
determine whether the Project will have in place an adequate financial management system as required by
Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed in accordance with the following:
(a) The Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank
Financed Projects (Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region,
December 1997)
(b) Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Handbook)
(c) Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank)
2.    The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to
the Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has
discussed and reviewed with the proposed project management office (PMO) of the Project about plans,
procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management system, including staff/training,
accounting, internal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and budgeting.
Organization of Project Financial Management
Structure of Project Management
3.    The proposed project management office (PMO) is staffed with and led by Zhejiang Provincial
Electric Power Company (ZPEPC), and is responsible for up-front project preparation work and direct
project implementation. ZPEPC will assume overall responsibility of implementing and monitoring the
Project. The task team further noted that ZPEPC has directly managed 3 other Bank financed power
projects in Zhejiang province and consequently is familiar with Bank's procedures and requirements.
Loan Disbursement Arrangements
4.    The Project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be
using PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of
Finance (MOF).
5.    Special Account will be managed by and maintained at ZPEPC. Funds will flow from the Bank,
ZPEPC to PMO and contractors/suppliers through loan and on-lending arrangement.
6.    As ZPEPC has managed 3 prior Bank financed power projects, it is well familiar with Bank
disbursement procedures and requirements. It will pass on its experiences to the Project to ensure
efficient and accurate fund management and timely disbursement. In addition, the Bank will provide as
and when needed training or assistance in preparation of withdrawal application.
7.    ZPEPC will be in charge of verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and
progress reported by PMO. After making sure applications for disbursement are in accordance with
Bank's procedures and requirements, ZPEPC submits the applications directly to the Bank for
reimbursements.



Page 60
Staff and Training
8.    Though to date chief accountant for the Project has not been identified, the task team has been
advised by PMO that personnel with the right qualifications and experiences will be recruited before
commencement to be in charge of the Project activities. Any experiences gained from prior Bank
financed projects will be passed on to the Plroject to ensure proper accounting of the Project. The task
team emphasized to the PMO that the chief accountant to be hired or seconded from ZPEPC for the
Project should have adequate experience and credentials in financial and accounting management. In
addition, he/she should be able to maintain books of accounts, exercise adequate internal controls,
safeguard Project's assets, monitor progress of the Project and produce financial and monitoring reports
required by the Bank and MOF on a timely basis. To date, the task team noted that accounting staff of
ZPEPC has been able to keep good accournl.s of 3 Bank financed power projects in the province.
9.    The task team also suggested that well designed and focused training should be provided as and
when needed by ZPEPC for staff new to Bank projects to ensure personnel of quality commensurate with
job responsibilities. The Bank plans to re-address in details some of tlhe major aspects of project financial
management and reporting requirements during the Project's launch workshop.
10.    To further strengthen project management and provide guidance in accounting practice and
financial information preparation and repo:rting, the task team recommended that well defined roles, job
description and operation procedures be documented and made easily accessible to all staff. The task
team has received a copy of the following prepared by ZPEPC for the first 3 Bank financed power
projects in Zhejiang province:
(a) Regulations on financial management of World Bank financed power projects in Zhejiang
province
(b) The Regulations provide operational guidelines in respect of accounting set-up, fund
management, asset management, staffing requirements, and detailed job
description/responsibilities, etc
(c) Budgeting management
Il.   Detailed procedures and instruction, are provided to assist in project budgeting, accountability
and monitoring
i2.    As to bidding management and withdrawal applications and disbursement procedures, PMO
intends to abide by the regulations stipulated by the Bank. The task team has been advised by the PMO
that in addition to following current practices and procedures applicable to Bank financed projects, a set
of financial management regulations based on the above mentioned documents and tailored to the
specifics of the Project will be available before commencement.
Finaancial and Accounting System
13.   The Project will use "Accounting Standards for Enterprises (the 'Standards")" as the basis for
bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and management reports. The Standards were issued
by MOF in July 1993 and were modeled after International Accounting Standards. The Standards also
dictate chart of account and related account instructions. Accrual accounting and double entry basis will
be adopted by the Project. Ledgers, journal vouchers and original supporting documents will be
maintained by the proposed project managernent office.



Page 61
Internal Controls
14.   ZPEPC has come to realize the importance of internal controls in financial/information
management. Currently, Price Waterhouse Coopers has been contracted by ZPEPC to design an
integrated SAP system, which will include the Project. Internal controls (both accounting and
administrative) have been figured into the design of the system. In addition, per review of the regulations
on financial management mentioned above, the task teams noted that sufficient controls would be built
into the system for major areas of the Project and cover the following control features:
(a) A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project
reporting adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets,
schedules and technical performance
(b) Delegation of duties
(c) Timely and accurate financial/management reporting
Reporting Requirements
15.   The format and content of the following reports have been discussed and agreed with ZPEPC and
the proposed PMO.
Financial statements (bi-annual basis). Unaudited reports to be submitted within four months of the
reporting period (i.e. before October 31 and April 30).
For ZPEPC:
* Balance Sheet
* Income Statement
 Cashflow Statement
Basis of preparation of above statements is also the "Accounting Standards for Enterprises", as described
in Section IV.
For the Project:
* Balance Sheet
* Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
* Statement of Special Account
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package agreed
to between the Bank and MOF and apply to FY 2000 projects.
Project monitoring reports (bi-annual basis). To be submitted within one month of the reporting period
(i.e. before October 31 and April 30).
* Statement of Project Progress
Procurement Management reports (bi-annual basis)
* Contract Expenditure Reports - goods & works, consultants
* Procurement Management Reports - ICB & NCB



Page 62
Auditing Arrangements
16.   The Bank requires the Project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. In line wsith other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be
audited in accordance with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997
edition). Zhejiang Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as auditors for the Project. Audit report
on the following will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each reporting year, with a
separate opinion on statement of expenses and special account:
*  Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
* Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
Budgeting
17.   As mentioned above, ZPEPC has prepared detailed budgeting procedures for all power projects in
Zhejiang province and the Project will be covered by such procedures. Comparison of budget versus
actual will be performed by ZPEPC on a semi-annual basis and any major deviation or overrun will be
closely followed up and corrected. Any sulbsequent major changes to the original plan have to be
reviewed, evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Conclusion
18.   Based on above analysis, the task team has determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's
financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will
have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with
the proposed project management office and as required by Bank.



Page 63
Annex 9: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Procurement
I.    All goods and consultant services to be financed under the Bank loan will be procured by ZPEPC
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines ("Guidelines- Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January, 1999 and Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 revised in
September 1997 and January 1999). Project costs by procurement arrangements are summarized in tables
A. Procurement activities will be processed according to the schedule in tables B and B 1.
2.    In International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International Bidding (LIB)
procurement, model bidding documents (May 1997) and Standard bid evaluation forms for procurement
of Goods and Works (April 1996) developed by MOF in consultation with the Bank will be used. In
evaluation of the bids following ICB procedures, qualified domestic manufacturers of goods would be
eligible for a margin of preference of 15 percent of the Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) price or the
actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
3.    For employment of consultants the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997,
Revised April 1998 and July 1999 will be used.
4.    The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more shall
be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Advertisements inviting expressions of interest for consultancy
contracts above US$200,000 will also be published in Development Business.
5.    Goods. Equipment, goods and materials financed from the Bank loan will be procured according to
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Bank loan will be mainly used for procurement of major
equipment and materials for the pumped storage plant, transmission lines, substations, distribution
management systems, and hardware and software for customer service center. More than 98 percent of the
equipment and materials will be procured through ICB (Table C). Goods estimated to cost less than US$3
million per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$4 million, and goods which the Bank
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured through LIB procedures
in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. Goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 1.0 million may be procured through contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping (IS) procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines. Direct Contracting (DC) will be used where there is only one supplier. The aggregate value
for DC is not to exceed US$1.5 million. The list of equipment which it is planned to procure by other
means than ICB is presented in table D. The preparatory, civil and installation works are within the
capability of the local contractors. These works will be financed by ZPEPC and procured following local
competitive bidding procedures. Installation of all major equipment will be supervised by the
manufacturers.
6.    Services (Table E). Thirteen contracts amounting to about US$19 million in total for consulting
services will be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines. These include: construction supervision of
the pumped storage power plant (one contract); regulatory system detailed design (one contract);
distribution restructuring (one contract); generation planning technical assistance (one contract);
consumer tariff design (one contract); condition monitoring and maintenance system design (one



Page 64
contract), office automation (one contract), customer services center (one contract); and training services
(five contracts). Selection of consultants will be carried out through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) except that procurement of constiuction management services may use single-source selection
method given the necessity of continuity svrith earlier services contracts. In procuring earlier consulting
services (Bank financed) the possibility of downstream work was indicated. Other consulting services
expected not to exceed US$100,000 per contract for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, may be
procured under Consultants Qualifications procedures (appropriate qualifications and references from an
established short list). These may include management and provision of training, and advisory services to
ZPEPC on regulatory and technical matters.
7.    Prior Review Thresholds (Table F). Prior review of draft bidding documents, bid evaluation
reports and contract award recommendations and contracts will be carried out for all ICB contracts above
US$3,000,000 and other contracts for goocds exceeding US$300,000. This will cover about 98 percent of
ICB and 80 percent of other contracts. Selective post-review will apply to other contracts during
supervision missions. Prior review of the terms-of-reference, cost estimates, selection criteria, consultant
shortlists, request for proposals, bid evaluation reports and contract award recommendations and contracts
will be required for all consultant contracts with an estimated cost exceeding US$100,000 per contract for
firms, or US$50,000 for individuals.
Disbursement
8.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table G). The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (i) 100
percent of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a CIF basis;
(ii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured items; (iii) 75 percent of local
expenditure for other items procured locally; and (iv) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting
services and training.
9.    The estimated annual disbursement schedule is shown in the Project Financing Data in page 1 and
detailed in the PIP (available in the project file). It was obtained from the detailed PCCOSTAB estimates
for the project and is in line with Bank experience of pumped storage projects where disbursement of
Bank finance for equipment only is somewhat later than average. The disbursements are expected to be
completed in seven years, July 2000 to June 2007. The project completion date will be June 30, 2007 and
the loan closing date December 31, 2007.
10.   Retroactive financing in an aggregated amount of US$10 million, or 3 percent of the loan, would
be provided for anticipated expenditures (construction equipment, consulting services and training)
incurred after October 1, 1999 and before the signing of the loan.
11.   Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). For expenditures pertaining to goods contract valued at
less than US$3,000,000 consultancy contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000
for individuals and all training, reimbursement will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures.
Supporting documents need not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained in ZPEPC's office for
review by the bank supervision missions.
12.    Special Account. To facilitate disbursement under this project, a Special Account will be
established for ZPEPC with an authorized allocation of US$20 million in US currency, representing
approximately four months of project disbursements in the peak expenditure year. Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial
deposit, whichever comes sooner.



Page 65
Annex 9, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                 (including
ICB       NCB        Other1     N.B.F    contingencies)
1. Works
Tongbai PS Plant
Preparatory Works                                                  7.92          7.92
Civil Works Lot 1                                                 52.12         52.12
Civil Works Lot 2                                                 28.89         28.89
Misc. Civil Works                                                  3.95          3.95
E&M Erection                                                      22.91        22.91
Transmission and Distribution
Preparatory works                                                   1.69         1.69
Line Civil Works                                                  20.15        20.15
Substation Civil Works                                            16.19         16.19
Line Erection                                                     11.00         11.00
Substation Erection                                               22.11         22.11
2. Goods
Tongbai PS Plant
Power Plant Equipment           181.02                                         181.02
(171.57)                                      (171.57)
HV Equipment and Cables          29.24                                         29.24
(28.45)                                       (28.45)
Steel Works and Misc.                                              8.08          8.08
Construction Equipment            1.36                  5.0                      6.36
(1.36)                (5.0)                    (6.36)
Transmission and Distribution
500 kV Lines                     24.08                                          24.08
(5.85)                                        (5.85)
500 kV Substations              174.80                                         174.80
(63.79)                                       (63.79)
Telecommunications and            1.73                                           1.73
Dispatch Automation              (0.66)                                         (0.66)
DMS                              11.81                                          11.81
(11.81)                                        (11.81)
Customer Service Center           8.0                                            8.0
Hardware and Software            (8.0)                                          (8.0)
3. Services
Tongbai PS Plant
Engineering Foreign                                    10.47                    10.47
(7.15)                  (7.15)
Engineering Local                                                 21.64         21.64
Construction Management                                            5.39          5.39
Operation Preparation                                              0.95          0.95
Training                                                1.76                     1.76
(1.16)                  (1.16)
Env. And Reset. Monitoring                                         0.20          0.20
Tendering Company                                                  3.25          3.25
Other covers LIB, IS and DC for goods as detailed in Table D, and consultancy services procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants.



Page 66
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                 (including
ICB       NCB       Other'     N.B.F    contingencies)
Transmission and Distribution
Design                                                           5.71         5.71
Construction Supervision                                         3.68         3.68
Environment and Resettlement
Monitoring
Tendering Company                                                0.62         0.62
Customer Service Center                               2.00                    2.00
(2.00)                 (2.00)
Power Sector Reform
Generating Planning                                   1.00                    1.00
(1.00)                 (1.00)
Customer Service Study                                0.50                    0.50
(0.50)                 (0.50)
Tariff Design                                         0.50                    0.50
(0.50)                 (0.50)
Restructuring and Regulation                          2.00                    2.00
Studies                                               (2.00)                 (2.00)
Condition Monitoring and                              2.00                    2.00
Maintenance                                           (2.00)                 (2.00)
Office Automation                                     1.50                    1.00
(1.50)                 (1.00)
Training                                              2.50                    3.00
(2.50)                 (3.00)
4. Miscellaneous
Owners Administration                                           12.84        12.84
Land Acquisition and                                            33.76        33.76
Resettlement                         __.
5. Interest during construction                                156.40       156.40
6. Front-end Fee                                      3.20                    3.20
__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __   _ _  (3.20)  (3.20)
Total                         435.44                 29.03     439.65       904.12
(294.89)              (25.11)                (320.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Page 67
Annex 9, Table B: ICB Procurement Schedule
EMI                  EM2             500 kV Transmission
Equipment
Complete preparation of        10/31/99             04/22/01               04/22/01
bidding docs.
Issue GPN                     04/30/98
Approval of bid                04/15/00             06/21/01               06/21/01
documents by Chinese
Government
Review by the World Bank      05/14/00              07/21/01               07/21/01
Issue SPN                     04/01/00
Issue bidding documents       05/15/00              07/31/01               07/31/01
Bid opening                   09/18/00              10/29/01               10/29/01
Complete bid evaluation        11/26/00             12/28/01               12/28/01
Approval by Chinese            01/10/01             02/26/02               02/26/02
Government
Review by the World Bank      02/09/01              03/28/02               03/28/02
Completion contract            03/23/01             04/27/02               04/27/02
negotiation
Contract award                04/25/01              04/28/02               04/28/02
Annex 9, Table B1: Consulting Services Schedule
Regulatory      Generation     Conditional    Customer Services
Framework      Planning and    Maint. & Office     Study
Design       Tariff Design   Automation
Complete preparation of      06/30/00        06/30/99        09/30/99         03/30/00
TOR
Issue GPN                    04/30/98        04/30/98        04/30/98         04/30/98
Issue SPN                   06/15/99         06/15/99       03/15/00          03/15/00
Issue RFP                   08/16/00         03/01/00       06/16/00          03/16/00
Bid opening (technical      09/30/00         04/15/00        08/15/00         08/15/00
proposal)
Complete bid evaluation      10/15/00        06/30/00       09/30/00          09/30/00
Review by the World Bank     11/02/00        08/15/00        10/15/00         10/15/00
Notification to Bidders      11/03/00        09/15/00        11/10/00         11/10/00
Bid opening (financial       11/18/00        09/30/00        11/25100         11/25/00
proposal)
Complete bid evaluation      11/23/00        10/07/00        12/03/00         12/03100
Review by the World Bank     11/30/00        10/15/00        12/10/00         12/10/00
Complete contract           12/15/00         10/30/00        12/25/00         12/25/00
negotiation
Contract award              01/01/01         12/15/00        01/10/01         01/10/01
Mobilization of             02/01/01         01/15/01       02110101          02/10/01
Consultants



Page 68
Annex 9, Table C: ICB Procurement Arrangements
Lot No. }              Item                     Q'ty              Unit        Estimated cost (US$
I                                  million)
Tongbai Pumped Storage Component
EM1      Powerhouse equipment (supply                                               171.02
and supervise erection)
Main Transformers                                                          11.00
EM2      HV equipment and cables                                                    28.45
Construction Equipment                                                     1.36
Transmission and Distribution Component
1.1      500 kV transformer 750 MVA              3                                  22.000
1.2      500 kV transformer 1000 MVA             2
2.1      500 kV circuit breaker                  39
2.2      220 kV circuit breaker                  20                                 16.270
2.3      500 kV disconnector                    101
3        500 kV surge arrestor                   75                                  1.125
4.1      500 kV current transformer              117
4.2      35 kV current transformer               9                                   7.155
4.3      500 kV voltage transformer              75
5        500 kV post insulator                   69                                  0.140
6        500 kV wave trap                        60                                  1.500
7.1      35 kV SF6 circuit breaker               3
7.2      35 kV disconnector                      3
7.3      35 kV vacuum circuit breaker            24
8        35 kV air core shunt reactor            33                                  1.650
9        500 kV line protection                  11                                 4.620
10.1     500 kV transformer protection           5
10.2     500 kV bus protection                   12                                 2.000
10.3     220 kV bus protection                   12
10.4     500 kV fault wave recorder              3
11       Substation control system               3                                  5.100
12       500 kV PLC communication                18                                 2.880
equipment
13       Composite fiber optical groundwire    360 km                               4.200
14      1 DMS Systems                                                                11.81
Reform Component
Customer Service Center Hardwtare                                          8.00
and Software (to be defined)



Page 69
Annex 9, Table D: LIB, IS and DC Procurement Arrangements
Item              Quantity              Cost                 Remarks
LIB
Specialized                 2                 $2,500,000       Specialized equipment
Construction                                                   made only by two
Equipment                                                      manufacturers.
Is
Special Tools                                  $340,000        Several small
contracts. Limited
suppliers
Hydraulic Controls                            $240,000
Special Instruments                           $120,000
Miscellaneous                                 $300,000
DC
Alimak Raise Climber        2                 $1,500,000       Only one manufacturer



Page 70
Annex 9, Table E: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)               Method                 Prior Review
US$ thousands                                     US$ millions
1. Works
2. Goods
>$300,000            ICB (except as noted in    ICB Contracts above.
Table E)                  $3,000,000 totaling
$426 million or 98%.
<$300,000           LIB, IS, DC                Others above
$300,000 totaling $4.0
million or 80%.
3. Services
>$100,000 for firm    QCBS (7 TA contracts)    All QCBS contracts
totaling $9.0 million
>$50,000 for         Sole-source (1 contract)2   +One sole source
individuals         CQ (5 contracts)3          contract $10.5 million.
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of conitracts subject to prior review:   $449.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
2 Contracts for FMIS Extension and Construction Supervision. Downstream work signaled in original procurement.
3 Training contracts in which consultants costs are less than $1 00,000 per contract.



Page 71
Annex 9, Table F: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
Goods                             258.0
Tongbai Component                 180.0              100% foreign
Transmission and                   78.0              100% local (ex-factory
Distribution
75% local (other)
Services                           16.7             100%
Tongbai Component                   7.2
Transmission and                    2.0
Distribution
Reform Plan                         7.5
Training                            3.7              100%
Tongbai                             1.2
Reform Plan                         2.5
Unallocated                        38.4
Front end fee                       3.2
Total Loan Amount                 320.0



Page 72
Annex 10: Land Acquisition and Resefflement
China: Ton(gbai Pumped Storage Project
Introduction
1.    The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for Tongbai Pumped Storage Project, covering both the
Tongbai pumped storage power plant (Tongbai) and 500 kV transmission reinforcement components, has
been drafted in accordance with the related laws and regulations issued by the central and provincial
government, and to comply with Bank OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The overall objective of the
RAP is that project affected people will benefit from the project and improve or at least restore their
living standard prior to moving.
Project Scope
2.    Tongbai is located at Baizhang village, Chengguan Township, Tiantai County, about 150 lkn
from Hangzhou. It is based on an existing hydropower plant constructed in the 1960s. The existing
upper reservoir will be retained essentially inchanged. The main elements of the project include building
a lower reservoir with a storage volume of 12.9 million m3, a water conveyance system, an underground
power house, and a surface switchyard.
3.    The transmission reinforcement component consists of three new 500 kV substations in Zhuji,
Yuyao and Xiaoshan cities, expanding two existing 500 kV substations in Ningbo and Wenzhou cities;
and two new 500 kV transmission lines: one linking Ningbo and Wenzhou (275 km); and one double
circuit line linking Tongbai and Zhuji. (110 km).
Scope of Resettlement Impact
4.    The Tongbai sub-project, will require acquisition of 1,282 mu of land, including 572 mu of
cultivated land, 91 mu of garden plot, 533 mu of forest land, and 85 mu of housing plots. Some 606 mu
is related to the reservoir, with 676 mu required for construction of dam, road, waterway, switchyard and
other related facilities. Some 81 percent belongs to two villages: Baizhang and Lingjao. Additionally,
during construction, a total of 806 mu land area will be temporarily occupied for construction facilities,
living quarters and temporary access roads of which 612 mu is cultivated land, 64 mu is garden plots and
131 mu is forest land.
5.    Based on the household by household census survey, a total of 354 households and 1,283 persons
will be affected by the project, of which 165 households of 572 persons will be physically relocated;
while the remaining 189 households of 711 persons will only lose land. A total of 31,102 m2 of
residential structures will be demolished, all privately owned, of which 71% are concrete brick structures,
13.5 % are brick/timber structures, 6.5% timber, with the remaining nine percent being of simpler
construction. In addition, a range of associated personal assets such as walls, courtyards will be destroyed.
The project will also have minor effects on an irrigation canal, power and communication lines and local
roads and bridges.
6.    The transmission component will involve only a limited amount of land acquisition and house
demolition in rural areas. According to the census survey, permanent acquisition requirements are 718
mu (439 mu cultivated land, 30 mu garden plot, 244 mu other non-cultivated land, and 5 mu house plot).
Some 437 mu is required for the three new substations and the remaining 281 mu is needed for tower
bases (some 0.6 mu per km). Temporary occupation of about 255 mu of land will also be required for the
transmission lines.



Page 73
7.      Based on the detailed survey, 104 households of 449 persons will need to be relocated; and
another 145 households or 626 persons will be affected due to land loss. Along with land acquisition, a
total of 23,759 m2 of floor space will be removed, of which 22,499 m2 is privately owned residential and
1,260 rn2 is collectively owned non-residential. The great majority of the structures are substantial
concrete brick or brick and timber. There are also some minor effects on an irrigation canal, power lines,
and local roads. A range of privately and village owned assets will also be affected including a small
metal processing factory (25 staff) a stone-processing factory (5 staff), and a tea-making factory (6 staff).
A preliminary survey also indicates the need to cut a total of 78,450 trees, including 16,480 fruit trees.
Legal Framework
8.     In accordance with the 1982 constitution, China is a country operating under the socialist
economic system on the basis of public ownership "the ownership by the whole people" and "collective
ownership by the working people" (Article 6). According to the constitution, urban landt belongs to the
State (whole people), while rural land is owned by collectivesS, except those areas stipulated by law as
State land (Article 10). These provisions formed the basis of the 1986 Land Administration Law6 which
also included detailed provisions on land usage. Under these provisions both State and collective owned
land may be allocated to be used by individuals for their own use. The use and management of rural land
may also be contracted to collectives or individuals. Because of the nature of collective ownership, a
village losing some land through state requisition is able to redistribute its remaining land holdings among
village members so that none will be left without land to fann. The Law also affirms the right of the State
to requisition land from collectives for construction, define the procedures for land requisition and
resettlement and the responsibilities of the parties. Compensation rates for cultivated land are specified to
be within the range of three to six times of the average annual output value in the past three years.
Provincial governments have the responsibility to stipulate standards of compensation for other types of
land with reference to the standard for cultivated land. In addition to land compensation, the regulations
provided for a resettlement subsidy to finance provisions for restoration of production. This subsidy is
paid on a per capita basis based on the "agricultural population to be resettled". This is calculated by
dividing the area of cultivated land requisitioned by the average amount of cultivated land per person of
the collective, before land requisitionv The resettlement subsidy shall normally be in the range of two to
three times of the average annual output value in the past three years, and shall not exceed ten times
average annual output. The explanatory notes accompanying the regulations8 provide examples of the
calculation of this subsidy, demonstrating that the subsidy per capita is actually two to three times the
output value of one mu of land. Thus if per capita area of cultivated land prior to resettlement is 0.5 mu,
the subsidy becomes four to six times the output value per mu of the land requisitioned. If it is 0.25 mu,
the subsidy is calculated as eight to twelve times, in which case the absolute limit of ten times would
apply. The Law further provides that if land compensation and resettlement subsidies are still insufficient
to restore farmers living standards to previous levels, the resettlement subsidy may be further increased,
with the approval of the provincial government, provided that combined land compensation and
resettlement subsidy shall not exceed 20 times average annual output value of the cultivated land
requisitioned. As in the case of compensation standards, provincial governments have the responsibility
4Land in built-up areas and areas zoned for urban development except those for agriculture purposes within the area concemed.
S Under the Chinese administrative system, govemments down to county level are considered to be part of the Chinese government. Below the
national level, are those at provincial level (and autonomous regions and large municipalities such as Beijing and Shanghai). Below the
provincial level are municipalities which are further divided into counties in rural areas and districts in urban areas. Below the county level,
govemments are considered to be representatives of collectives, which formerly were organized into communes, now referred to as "townships"
and brigades which are now referred to as administrative "villages" which may in tum be made up of a number of natural villages, referred to in
this paper as "groups".
6 Land Administration Law of the Peoples Republic of China (promulgated June 25, 1986, effective January 1, 1987).
7 It is recognized that this is not necessarily equivalent to the number of project affected persons. It is simply a statistical number for determining
resettlement subsidy to be paid to the collective.
'Explanation of Various Problems about "Land Requisition Regulations for State Construction".



Page 74
to stipulate standards for resettlement subsidies for other types of land (orchards, fishponds, pasture lands
etc.) with reference to the standard for cultivated land. All compensation and resettlement subsidies,
except for compensation for individually owned property on the land and unharvested crops from land
being contracted to an individual, are to be paid to the collective to finance the development of new
production base, find jobs for surplus labors, and to provide subsidies for those who cannot be employed.
Funds shall not, in any circumstances, be diverted for other purposes. Compensation funds received are
shared equally by all village members and may be used individually or collectively to either develop new
production bases or improve existing production capabilities.
9.     Reservoir Resettlement Regulation and Polices. Specific policies on reservoir resettlement were
issued in 1991.9. While application of these regulations is being continuously refined to reflect
implementation experience and changing socio-economic conditions, the key principles have remained
unchanged.
(a) The Government advocates and supports resettlement with development and adopts the
approach of giving compensation in the early stages of resettlement and providing
rehabilitation assistance after displacement.
(b) Benefits to the nation, communities and individuals should be considered in an integrated
manner.
(c) Resettlement shall be synchronized with resource development, soil and water conservation
and economic development in tlhe reservoir area.
(d) All displaced persons shall be assisted to improve or at least restore their former living
standard in steps.
(e) Resettlement should be planned taking full consideration of local conditions and available
resources.
(f) If conditions allow, displaced people should be resettled as near as possible'. Otherwise
altematives such as reclamation of waste land, land re-consolidation and moving to other
areas should be considered.
10.    More specific compensation and resettlement subsidy standards are also specified within the
ranges laid down in the Land Administration Law. However, they do provide that for large scale flood
control, irrigation or drainage projects (not hydropower), land compensation standards could be reduced,
with detailed standards negotiated between Mvlinistry of Water Resources (MWR) and concerned
departments. Supplementary benefits to resettlers, beyond compensation and resettlement subsidies, are
also stipulated:
(a) Government to establish a reservoir construction fund to finance resettlement site
maintenance and production development.
(b) Communities affected by hydropower plant construction to be electrified, with preferential
tariffs for irrigation and drainage.
(c) Priority to be given for displaced persons to use water surface and reservoir draw-down areas.
9 Regulations for Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the Construction of Large and Medium-Sized Water Conservancy Projects, China State
Council, 1991.
 Article 12 elaborates: "within their original township or county, or within the aTea benefited by the project'.



Page 75
(d) Priority to be given to resettlement communities in government budgetary support for
agriculture, communications, culture, education and health care, and to employment in
government construction projects.
(e) Government support to economic rehabilitation efforts to extend for five to ten years after
displacement.
Compensation Standards
11.   Based on the above mentioned law and regulations, and a detailed analysis of replacement value
of lost assets and investment needs for the replaced land, a set of compensation standards have been
adopted for Tongbai Pump Storage Project, covering both power plant and transmission components.
Land Compensation
12.   For the pumped storage plant the following compensation standards and rates are adopted:
(a) Cultivated land (covering both land compensation and job compensation): 10 times average
output value over the past three years, amounting to Y 10,880 per mu for Baizhang village
and Y 15,504 per mu for Lingjiao village.
(b) Fruit trees: 10 times annual yield in the past three years, or Y 12,000 per mu.
(c) Forest land (based on the provincial regulation):Y 5,819 per mu for scatted forest, and Y
7,687 per mu for economic trees.
(d) Residential plots: The same rate as for cultivated land (without job compensation part), Y
4,352 per mu for Baizhang village, and Y 6,201 per mu for Lingjiao Village.
13.   For the transmission component, different land compensation rates apply for transmission lines
and substations. For the lines, the overall compensation rate is Y 9,300 per mu for cultivated land and Y
4,400 per mu for non-cultivated land. For the substations, due to their proximity to large cities, and their
concentrated impact on single villages the total compensation rate (including land compensation, job
compensation and standing crop compensation) will be Y 37,100 per mu, including Y 30,000 per mu for
job compensation.
Property Compensation
14.   Property compensation includes compensation for lost buildings, attached facilities, and trees, as
well as resettlement package, moving allowance, etc. These standards are set based on replacement value
of lost assets and are common to both power plant and transmission components. Typical values are:



Page 76
Item                                       Unit                  Compensation Rate (Yuan)
Brick/Concrete Houses                      (m`)                          334-340
Brick and Timber Houses                    (m2)                          300-320
Timber Framed and Clad Houses              (Zin)                         280-295
Earth and Timber Houses                    (m2)                          260-295
Simple Structures                          (m2)                            120
Kitchen Stove                              piece                           200
Fruit Trees                                piece                         20-200
Other Trees                                piece                          10-50
Tomb Removal                               piece                           300
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan
15.   The basic resettlement strategy is to provide land based economic rehabilitation for those who
lose land. Those who lose their houses will be provided with replacement value, free new housing plot
and moving assistance.
16.   For the Tongbai Plant the population to be relocated, estimated to be 631 persons by year 2005
(the design year), 584 persons will be resettled at the Luoxi resettlement site. The remaining 47 persons
from Qiaoxia, Baibuyang and Kanding villages will be resettled in their original villages. They will be
given cash compensation for their lost structures and assets based on replacement value. In addition, each
family will be provide a housing plot with road access, water and electricity, and no less than 30 m2.
Moving assistance is set at 350 Yuan per person.
17.   The total population requiring economic rehabilitation will be 861 by 2005 (design year). The
584 people relocated to Luoxi will each receive 0.5 mu of newly developed cultivated land. Considering
that the newly developed land will take some time to become fully productive, a one time grain subsidy of
Y 1,200 per person will be provided after moving. The 277 people in the remaining villages will be
accommodated within their original villages through re-distribution of remaining village land and
developing new farmland. Each affected village, based on amount of their land loss, will receive land
compensation and job rehabilitation equal to Y 15,000 Yuan per mu for cultivated land (Y 12,000 for
garden plot and Y 5,800 for forest land). These funds will be used by the villages to improve yield of
existing land and develop new farmland.
18.   People affected by temporary land occupation will receive compensation each year over the six
years' construction period, based on the average annual output value in the three years prior to
occupation. The annual compensation rate will be 1,550 Yuan per mu for cultivated land, 1,200 Yuan
per mu for garden plot, 582 Yuan per mu for forest land.
19.   Since Tongbai project is a hydropower project, the national regulations require the establishment
of a post-resettlement fund to assist in development of new production systems. The criterion is Y 400
Yuan per year per capita for the first ten years after commissioning. This will not be included in the
project budget, but will be funded from the revenue of the power station.
20.   For the transmission component, a total of 104 households or 449 persons need to be relocated.
They will be provided with new housing plots in their existing villages near to their farmland,
compensated for their houses at undepreciated replacement cost, and allowed to salvage materials from
their old houses. For the relocated three small enterprises (36 employees and leasing 1,220 village owned
spaces), the village will arrange alternative sites for them to continue their operations. No loss of
production or employment is expected. Besides asset compensation paid to the village (the building
owner), three enterprises will be given Y 300,000 for moving, re-installation of equipment and subsidy
for employees.



Page 77
21,   The 626 people affected by land loss only, will remain within their original villages through re-
distribution of village land and developing new farmland. The land compensation and job rehabilitation
funds will be used by the villages to improve yield and develop new farmland, establish an
unemployment fund and to purchase health and life insurance for the elderly. People affected by
temporary land occupation, will receive compensation either for one season at Y 500 per mu, or for two
years at Y 7,200 per mu (including two year output value of Y 2,200 per mu and land reclamation cost of
Y 5,000 per mu).
Institutional Arrangements
22.   Both ZPEPC and local governments have responsibilities for resettlement A Resettlement
Leading Group (RLG) has been established by ZPEPC. The RLG is made of 17 officials from relevant
departments and companies, and is headed by Mr. Wei Guozhong, deputy director of ZPEPC. Its main
responsibility is to provide leadership, formulate resettlement policies, facilitate resettlement
implementation, and coordinate among departments. Under the RLG, a Resettlement Office (RO) with
56 staff has also been set up. Their responsibilities range from entrusting and assisting the census and
socio-economic survey; keeping survey records, preparation of the RAP; management and disbursement
of resettlement budget, coordinating and supervising implementation, staff training, conducting internal
monitoring, and assisting the external monitoring and evaluation team.
23.   For Tongbai, which is located in Chengguan Town, Tiantai county, resettlement implementation
will be managed by Tiantai county government. A county RLG has also been set up, consisting of the
county deputy governor and responsible officials of relevant county departments, such as power supply,
land administration, labor , and public security bureaus. Its main responsibilities are: identifying
resettlement and rehabilitation options; formulating preferential policies; supervising resettlement
implementation; and coordinating among different agencies. Under the RLG, there are three
implementing agencies: the Tiantai county resettlement office (CRO), and two headquarters units
responsible for dike and land development projects. The CRO is responsible for assisting site survey,
keeping records, organizing consultation and community participation, developing and implementing the
RAP, managing and allocating resettlement funds, training staff at county and township levels, signing
compensation agreements with affected families and villages, and being the main channel for grievances.
The other two departments are responsible for dike and land development in the Potanxi resettlement
area. Land development includes housing plots and cultivated land, and infrastructure, such as irrigation,
roads, water supply, sewerage, electricity and telephone. In Chengguan township - the only township that
is affected by Tongbai project, a resettlement working team has also been established, which will work
closely with the CRO.
24.   The transmission component impacts several cities and counties and resettlement offices will be
set up in each affected city and county, staffed by experienced personnel from local power and land
administration bureaus and local county or township governments. They will be responsible for inventory
and socio-economic surveys, organizing consultation and participation, assisting in the preparation and
implementation of the RAP, signing compensation agreement with affected individuals and villages, and
assisting the internal and external resettlement monitoring and evaluation. Affected villages and villager
groups will also establish resettlement work teams made of key village officials which will assist and
participate in surveys, organize community consultation and participation, identify resettlement sites,
allocate housing plots; report progress and provide assistance and support during relocation particularly
to vulnerable families.



Page 78
Community Participation Arrangement
25.   For Tongbai, extensive consultation and community participation has already occurred during the
preparatory phases resulting in some changes to the RAP. For example, based on the preferences of the
affected villages and individuals: a land based economic rehabilitation strategy was adopted; the new
village site was changed from the east side of the Potangxi stream to the west side for closer proximity to
the county town center and a one km length of highway will be constructed to connect the site to the town
center; and several irrigation facilities will re-constructed for the host communities. For the transmission
component, the substation site of Yuyao was initially to be located in Yangling village, in Zhangting
township. However, this village has a very limited amount of cultivated land, and after consultation with
local government and residents, a new site at Zhujiamen village, Yuyao township was selected.
Participatory and transparent processes will also be employed in the implementation phase in areas such
as delivering compensation packages and allocation of housing plots. The resettlers will also be informed
of the established grievance procedures.
Resettlement Cost
26.   Based on the RAP, the overall resettlement budget for the project is Y 118 million Yuan,
including Y 64 million for the power plant and Y 54 million for the transmission component. The
resettlement cost estimate is included in the project budget.
Monitoring and Evaluation
27.   Both internal monitoring and external monitoring and evaluation will be carried out during the
resettlement implementation. For both components, internal monitoring will be carried out by the
relevant county resettlement offices and local working teams under the direction of ZPEPC. During
implementation, progress reports will be submitted quarterly from the local resettlement teams through
the CROs to the ZPEPC RO. ZPEPC has entrusted ECIDI to undertake external resettlement monitoring
and evaluation for both components. After start of implementation, a survey will be carried out in
September each year, and a report submitted by year end. The external monitoring and evaluation will
cover physical progress of relocation and economic rehabilitation works; evaluation of adequacy of
resettlement and assessment of success in restoration of livelihoods. Indicators will include: physical
progress and quality indicators; delivery of resettlement funds; income and other financial indicators;
living environment; employment conditions and resettler satisfaction.



Page 79
Annex 11: Environmental Summary
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Summary and Conclusion
1.    The Tongbai pumped storage component exploits an existing upper reservoir built in the 1960's
and presently part of an 8 MW hydro power plant. A new lower reservoir is to be built, together with an
underground powerhouse. Both reservoirs are small with surface areas of 79 ha(upper) and 48 ha(lower)
and are sited on small streams. The reservoirs will act as transfer ponds with sufficient storage (around 11
million m3) for a daily operating cycle - the upper reservoir is typically full at daybreak and is used to
provide water for generation during the day, particularly at the early evening peak demand period. By late
evening as electricity demand drops, the lower reservoir is now nearly full (the upper empty) and the
pattern is reversed with water transferred during the night by pumping from the lower to the upper
reservoir.
2.    Because of the physical nature of the Project, the typical adverse environmental impacts
associated with most conventional hydro projects, i.e. those arising from reservoir inundation and an
altered downstream river flow regime, are relatively insignificant. The major impact stems from the need
to resettle some 600 people. Most of these are from the village adjacent to the lower reservoir dam site. A
nearby resettlement area has been identified and will be developed for agriculture. A disadvantage is that
most of this area is at present wetland and provides a relatively rare habitat within the region.
3.    The transmission lines primarily extend through relatively undeveloped mountainous terrain. As a
result only some 4 ha of agricultural land will be lost. The three new and two extended substations are
located in generally developed areas. A population of 450 is to be resettled.
4.    In conclusion, given the substantial scale of the Project, as represented by an estimated capital
investment of almost a billion US$, the environmental impacts are modest and manageable.
Project Description
5. There are two physical components of the project: 1) the pumped storage power plant, 2) the
transmission and substation works. The Project consists of the following main elements - some key
statistics are provided in the attached table.
6.    Upper Reservoir (Existing) is located on a small stream (the Tongbai), with a drainage area of
6.7 kM2, at the edge of a mountainous plateau at an elevation of 400m. The plateau drops steeply to a
plain at an elevation of around lOOm. This 300m drop provides the physical rationale for the Project. The
reservoir is fed by runoff diverted from several adjacent streams, the total drainage area intercepted is 61
kn2. The existing reservoir levels will be unchanged and the only significant physical modification
required in the reservoir area is the addition of a new intake/outlet structure. The plateau is accessible
from the well-developed plain below by a new so-called "tourist" road about 6 km long. This road was
recently built by the local authorities and is intended to open up the plateau to tourism - the rim of the
plateau provides magnificent views.
7.    Lower Reservoir. The Baizhang river flows along the base of the plateau and will be dammed to
form the lower reservoir. The upstream 15.5 km2 of the basin is at present diverted into the upper
reservoir; the diversion will continue in effect and the remaining drainage area feeding the reservoir is
only 6 km2. The dam is a concrete faced rockfill embankment some 420m long with a maximum height of



Page 80
68m. Flow is discharged from the reservoir via a low level release tunnel (which allows the reservoir to
be emptied if necessary) and an ungated spillway.
8.    Power Facilities. The powerhouse and water conveyance system are located underground (as is
the small existing powerhouse which will be abandoned upon project completion). The one major surface
feature is the switchyard which occupies an area of less than a hectare.
9.     Transmission Facilities. These comprise a 111 km long double circuit 500 kV line from the
Tongbai substation to connect to the main grid, a separate 275 km long single circuit 500 kV line
(providing support to the grid as a whole), three new 500 kV substations and extensions to two existing
substations.
Project Background and Implementation!
10.   The first comprehensive study was completed with the issue of a pre-feasibility study report in
June 1994. This was followed by a feasibility study report in October 1996. The Project has been
subsequently brought to the preliminary design level by 1998. Environmental studies have been carried
out in parallel, i.e. starting in 1994.
11.   The implementation schedule includes the following key dates:
(a) Start of preliminary construction works, mid. 1999;
(b) Award of main construction contracts, mid 2000;
(c) First unit on-power, end of 2004;
(d) The fourth and last unit will be on1-power by early 2006; and
(e) The transmission facilities are to be constructed in parallel, i.e. completed by the end of
2004.
Project Justification
12.   The East China Power Grid covers the provinces of Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Anhui plus the
Shanghai metropolitan area. With a population1 of over 180 million, the area is developing rapidly. Peak
electricity demand is now almost 30,000 MW. Zhejiang province alone accounts for about 25% of the
load on the grid. The main generation source is coal-fired thermal plant, with hydropower providing less
than 10% of the supply. A growing problem is the difficulty in meeting the wide variation between peak
and off-peak demand. Most of the thermal plan1t is suitable only for operation at more-or-less constant
load and the more flexible hydro plant is insufficient to cover the load variation. The gap between off and
on-peak demand is forecast to exceed 25,000 MAW by 2005. In summary, a substantial amount of
additional peak-load type generation plant is required.
13.   There are in principle four altematives:
(a) Conventional hydro plant: despite the availability of some hydropower imported from other
regions, including 1800 MW from Three Gorges, the hydro resources are simply inadequate.
(b) Coal-fired plant adapted to cycling or peaking duty: satisfactory but with a high capital cost.



Page 81
(c) Gas turbine plant: satisfactory but with a high fuel cost - burning oil.
(d) Pumped storage plant: one major plant, Tianhuanping (1800 MW), is under construction and
scheduled for completion in 2000. A survey of the area has identified a number of potential
sites but established that Tongbai is the most attractive.
14.   Generation planning studies were carried out and confirmed that the Tongbai Pumped Storage
Project is the least-cost source of peaking generation with an equalizing discount rate of 16%. Sensitivity
and risk analyses also produced acceptable results. Without Tongbai, additional gas turbine and coal-fired
plant would be installed. Optimization studies were carried out to establish the optimum size (1200 MW)
and arrangement of the Project.
Environmental Studies
15.   The environmental studies have been carried out by the East China Investigation and Design
Institute (ECIDI) - who are also responsible for the engineering design of the Project. The relevant
Chinese regulations and standards have been strictly adhered to as have the Bank's own guidelines. The
pumped storage component is classed as Category A, requiring a full environmental impact assessment
(EIA); the transmission component if it were a freestanding project would be classed as Category B, but it
has also been given a full EIA. Field work has included monitoring of water quality, surveys of fish,
wildlife, vegetation and land use. A comprehensive survey of the affected population was also conducted
and yielded data on public health, livelihood and attitudes towards the Project. Full disclosure has ensured
a wide awareness of the Project; in brief, the attitude is overwhelmingly positive.
16.   The full environmental impact assessment including the environmental management plans are
presented in separate reports covering the two project components. A third report covers resettlement for
both project components. This summary includes some comment only on those resettlement issues which
are particularly relevant to the environment.
The Existing Natural Environment
17.   The general landforms have been described above, to recap: the lower reservoir is located in a
valley at the foot of the plateau and immediately adjacent to a plain that is intensively developed for
agriculture. The transmission lines generally traverse mountainous terrain at elevations of up to 700m.
18.   Climate. The area is classified as subtropical monsoon, with 80% of the annual precipitation
(which averages around 1300 mm) occurring between May and September. Summer maximum
temperatures are typically 30 to 35C with relatively high humidity and winter minimums are around zero.
19.   Hydrology. As noted, the rivers directly affected are in effect small streams. All are perennial
but flows during the dry (winter) season are minimal. The existing hydro project in effect diverts water
from the headwaters of some of the small streams and returns the flow to the Baizhang River -
approximately trebling the original average natural flow at the power plant outlet. The new pumped
storage plant will not change this regime. The sole alteration is that the short-term flows may differ: the
existing plant is frequently shutdown with consequently no discharge to the river, the inclusion of a
specific release facility at the lower reservoir means that a discharges can be better regulated. The table
attached provides a summary of the existing flow regime and the impact of the Project and should be read
in conjunction with the map schematic of the river basins provided.



Page 82
20.    Water Quality. Testing of sampiles has shown that the quality of water in both the existing upper
reservoir and the downstream Baizhang River is excellent. This is largely due to the absence of any
industrial pollution, the only pollution sources are runoff from agriculture (fertilizer, herbicides and
insecticides) and domestic wastes.
21.    Sedimentation/Land Erosion. The terrain is in general stable and with adequate vegetation
cover so erosion (and hence sediment yield to reservoirs) is moderate and typical of the region.
22.    Flora. Outside the agricultural areas the dominant vegetation cover is forest, largely secondary
growth. The most common species is ma son pine. There are no known rare or endangered plant species
in the affected areas.
23.    Wildlife. The main construction areas (the lower reservoir dam site, and transmission
substations) are located in relatively accessible, developed areas hence larger wildlife is scarce. In the
more remote catchment basins and areas crossed by the transmission lines wildlife is relatively abundant.
Notable species are: the white-necked pheasant and pangolin (classified as Grade I and II respectively in
terms of preservation). Other common animals are: boar, hare, hedgehog, muntjac, snakes and many
birds.
24.    Fish. The small streams in the area of the pumped storage plant are virtually devoid of any
significant fish life. There have been attempts to establish s small-scale commercial fishery in the upper
reservoir. However, the conditions are unfavorable. A limited amount of fishery is done by local
residents.
The Social Environment
25.    The lower reservoir will occupy a large portion of two small villages: Baizhang and Lingjiao with
a total population of around 600. Although these communities are nominally agricultural, surveys show
that the major portion of household income is derived from small-scale industrial, commercial and service
activity. They have generally adequate infrastructure and excellent road access is available to larger
towns. The situation is generally similar in the village communities affected by the transmission facilities.
The total area of agricultural land lost to production is about 1400 mu (almost 100 ha) - approximately
equally divided between the lower reservoir area and the transmission substations.
26.    There is one major infrastructure component that will be directly affected: the Lishimen Irrigation
Aqueduct. This aqueduct passes along the Baizhang River valley and carries water from a reservoir on the
upper Shifeng river to irrigated areas downstream of the Project. The Lishimen reservoir, water supply
and irrigation areas however, will not be affected. In brief, a one kilometer long section of the aqueduct
has to be relocated - partly in a tunnel - through the project area.
Impact Areas
27.    These can be classified as follows:
(a) Areas directly and permanently occupied, specifically:
(i) the area inundated by the lower reservoir - 50 ha;
(ii) the areas occupied by the pumped storage plant structures (inlet and outlets at the two
reservoirs, the lower dam antl associated works, the switchyard, tunnel portals, access
roads [6 km] etc.) - 85 ha;



Page 83
(iii) the three areas used to dispose of waste excavated material from construction of the
pumped storage plant, a total of 2,000,000 m3 - 28 ha;
(iv) the areas used at the two new and three expanded substations - 50 ha; and
(v) areas used by access roads 38 km for construction of the transmission lines - 30 ha.
The total is thus about 250 ha.
(b) Areas temporarily used during the construction period that will be subsequently restored to their
original use - an estimated 165 ha.
(c) The area taken over for resettlement is about 30 ha.
(d) Areas within the transmission line corridors - 2400 ha. These areas apart from the small portion
occupied by the transmission tower foundations will be influenced (some tree clearing, access
and use restrictions) but not occupied as such.
(e) An additional larger area will be temporarily impacted during the construction stage e.g. by noise,
dust, traffic etc.
Summary of Most Significant Impacts
28.   In relation to the scale of the Project - at least as expressed by the near billion dollar investment -
the environmental impacts are not severe, a subjective listing of the most significant impacts follows:
(a) Loss of the Baizhang valley (50 ha) by inundation to form the lower reservoir;
(b) Potentially adverse impacts on the downstream flow regime in the Baizhang River by releases
from the lower reservoir;
(c) Loss of a small area (30 ha) of wetland in the area assigned for conversion to resettlement;
(d) Short-term impact of the influx - to a rural area - of up to 3 800 workers during construction
of the pumped storage plant;
(e) Some tree cutting and vegetation clearing in the forested area (600 ha) crossed by the
transmission lines;
(f) Electromagnetic radiation and corona noise from the transmission lines and substations;
(g) Construction of some 38 km of access roads for the transmission lines, mostly through
mountainous and forested areas.
29.    These and some of the less significant impacts are discussed in more detail in the following
sections together with the principal mitigating measures that will or have been adopted. The impacts and
mitigation measures are also summarized in a table together with the related plans for environmental
management and monitoring.



Page 84
Impacts During Construction and Related Mitigation Measures
30.    The main construction areas and scope of work are:
(a) The lower reservoir dam site and related surface works. Most of the heavy construction
works are concentrated in this area. Construction work is expected to continue for about 4
years. Substantial surface excarvations (-4,000,000 m3 in total) are required for the structures
and at the required borrow areas. An estimated 1.4 million m3 of surplus excavated material
(in excess of that usable for required fill) will be disposed in a spoil area about 3 km away,
with an area of 10 ha. The powerhouse and water conveyance system (tunnels and shafts) are
underground, impacts are therefore largely confined to the movement of materials and
equipment into and from the access tunnels. However, most of the underground construction
will be carried out on a 24 hour basis and hence there will be some night-time disturbance.
Temporary camp accommodation for -1700 people will be established, covering an area of 7
ha. Substantial construction facilities are also required such as: warehouse and storage yards,
workshops, concrete mixing and aggregate processing plant etc.
(b) The upper reservoir. The construction here is limited to the new inlet/outlet structure and
minor other works and should be completed within about 3 years. The surplus excavated
material for disposal is 500,000 m3 and two separate disposal areas have been selected.
Disposal is difficult in this area because of the generally steep topography. A smaller camp
will be set up to accommodate about 300, with an area of 1.3 ha.
(c) The new and expanded substations require only smaller scale construction works with limited
earthworks. The construction duration is estimated at 33 months.
(d) The transmission lines are of course geographically extensive, a total of 858 towers are
required. Construction camps are generally not expected to be necessary. Most of the
construction work is relatively low-impact, with local foundation excavations for the towers,
use of portable concrete plant, tower erection by lifting poles etc. A notable point is the
adoption of the 'tension-stringing' method to install the overhead conductor wires. This
method (relatively new in China) requires minimal disturbance to the land below the
conductors i.e. between the towers: only a relatively light nylon rope is used to make a link
between towers (necessarily by (Iragging it over the ground), all subsequent work is done
above the ground. The towers are relatively widely spaced at about 500m apart and the length
of access road construction is quite modest at 38 kin; access for inspection and light
maintenance will be provided by a system of footpaths.
31.    The most common impacts attributable to the construction are:
(a) Air Pollution. Other than the unavoidable impact of construction equipment exhaust
emissions, the major pollutant will be dust arising from earthworks construction, unpaved
roads, aggregate processing and., potentially, cement handling. The appropriate mitigation
approach to be adopted is dust control by watering.
(b) Water Quality. The major source of potential pollution is wastewater from the concrete and
aggregate plants. At the lower reservoir work site the waste water discharge is estimated at
300 m3/hr or 831/s, containing typical suspended solid concentrations of 30,000 PPM. This
can not be discharged directly into the Baizhang River without significant consequences. The
specific treatment plan calls for a dual settling basin system with only clear water discharged
- the solids retained would be rernoved periodically and hauled to the disposal areas. Other



Page 85
effluent sources will also be collected and treated. Sewage treatment is also mandatory and
will be provided in conjunction with the camp, dining and toilet facilities.
(c) Noise. Some elevated noise levels are unavoidable. Construction workers will be provided
with ear protective devices as necessary. Vehicle exhausts and other noise generating sources
will be monitored. In general, with nearby village populations resettled at the outset, noise
pollution is not expected to effect substantial numbers of people.
(d) Traffic. The largest potential traffic volume outside the direct works areas will be for
delivery of materials to the lower and upper reservoir areas, notably cement, fuel and other
construction materials and equipment. However, the area is within some seven km of a busy
national highway and the increase in traffic will be relatively insignificant.
(e) Social and Health. The influx of up to 3 800 workers (at the lower and upper reservoir work
areas) will potentially introduce infectious diseases not only among the work force but also
among the resident population. The planned control measures include: regular medical
examinations; provision of adequate hygiene practices in the camp, including dining and
toilet facilities; basic medical facilities on-site etc.
(f) Land Erosion. The potential for land erosion is associated with improper earthworks
construction, notably provision of inadequate drainage, slope protection etc. This problem is
often encountered in road construction in mountainous areas. An example of poor
construction is provided by the new tourist road which was built by the local authorities i.e.
not by, or for, ZPEPC. This road extends about 6 km up along the rim of the plateau from the
plain below to the upper reservoir. It follows that sound design and construction practice (as
required by the contract specifications) are the appropriate response.
(g) Wildlife. As noted earlier for the most part the construction areas are in relatively developed
and inhabited areas, hence larger animals are rare - the transmission lines are an exception.
The most critical species identified (the white-necked pheasant and pangolin) are found at
somewhat higher elevations in generally forested areas and would therefore be little affected
during construction.
Impacts During Operation and Related Mitigation Measures
32.    These impacts are generally permanent in nature.
33.    Lower Reservoir. Creation of this reservoir will convert some 50 ha of valley and about 1.5 km
of stream into a reservoir subject to regular (daily) variations in water level of 25 to 30m. Most of the
flatland in the floor of the valley (22 ha) is used for agriculture, the typically steep (-25 degrees) sides are
lightly forested. The small size of the reservoir and large level variations are not conducive to fish life.
Frequent, rapid variations in water level can in some conditions lead to slope failures and erosion.
However, the geology of the valley features a stable structure and thin soil cover and only minimal local
slips and erosion will occur. It is of course essential for operation of the pumped storage plant to prevent
any substantial quantity of loose material from entering the reservoir. Conservative assessments of
potential reservoir sedimentation have been made and confirm that it will be insignificant over the life of
the project. As standard policy the inundated area will be thoroughly cleared of vegetation during the
construction period and prior to reservoir impoundment. The rapid level variations and high rates of plant
discharge (up to 600 m3/s) will tend to stir up any loose material and create relatively high turbidity
adjacent to the inlet/outlet structures - this will apply equally at the upper reservoir. Local erosion



Page 86
adjacent to the structures is prevented by an extended concrete apron. Given the expected limited aquatic
life in the reservoir, the adverse impact of the increased local turbidity should be minimal.
34.    Downstream Flow Regime. Since the existing system of inter-basin river diversions and upper
reservoir are unchanged the downstream flow regime in the diverted streams will also be unchanged. The
same is generally true in the Baizhang river apart from the following (additional information is provided
in the attached Table and Drawing):
(a) The flow discharged from the existing Tongbai Power Plant is carried by a tailrace channel to
a second low-head power plant and is returned to the Baizhang river at a point about 2.0 km
downstream of the outlet from the new lower reservoir. At present this reach of the river thus
carries only the small flow from the 6 km2 upstream basin (itself only about one third of the
original natural flow). With operation of the pumped storage plant the average flow in this
reach will be substantially increased. It is important to note that the average flows in question
(as opposed to flood discharges) are all low: the average from the 6 km2 basin feeding the
lower reservoir is only 0.14 m3/s; the flow from the pumped storage plant (essentially equal
to that from the existing power plants) averages 1.7 m3/s; prior to construction of the original
plants, and the associated diversions, the flow in the Baizhang was about 0.6 m3/s.
(b) The Baizhang River joins the very much larger Sanmao River (average flow -4.5 m3/s) only
about 4 km downstream of the lower reservoir outlet - the Sanmao in turn joins the still larger
Shifeng River (average flow -25 m3/s) within a further 4 km. In effect, the alterations in the
downstream flow regime attributable to the pumped storage plant are minimal in terms of
longer term, e.g. seasonal average, flows.
(c) There is on the other hand potential for some change in the short-term flow regime i.e.
discharge rates over a matter of'minutes or hours. The existing maximum discharge (other
than under natural floods from the small 6 km2 basin - typical maximum annual flood peak
discharge is -50 m3/s) is dictated by the capacity of the existing power plants at 3.5 m3/s. The
new outlet from the lower reservoir is designed to release of up to 5 m3/s on a normal basis
and up to 50 m3/s during flood periods - i.e. within the normal flow regime. During the day
period the downstream release will be minimal.
(d) The final point concerns water quality. At present the flow in the Baizhang is a combination
of natural flow from the upstream basin (0.14 m3/s) plus flow discharged by the power plant
from the upper reservoir. Although this pattern is unchanged by the pumped storage plant,
water quality could be affected firstly by the increased turbidity already discussed and
secondly by the altered reservoir regime. At present the upper reservoir is such that the
residence time (defined as the duration required to fill or empty the reservoir at the average
inflow) is quite long at 2 to 3 months; water levels vary only slowly - dropping during the
winter dry season and rising at the beginning of the summer monsoon. With the pumped
storage plant in operation, the regime will be completely different with water recycled more-
or-less continuously every day between the two reservoirs. The impact of this is unclear but
given the small size of the two reservoirs it is not expected that the quality of the water
discharged from the lower reseroir will be significantly affected.
35.    Loss of Wetland. It is highly desirable to relocate the populations displaced by the lower
reservoir in an area suitable for agricultural development, however such land is scarce in this area. After a
detailed survey of the alternatives a resettlement site was selected about 10 km from Baizhang village.
The area is adjacent to the Luoxi river a tributary of the Shifeng where the Luoxi debauches onto the plain
- as at Baizhang, the Luoxi also drains the plateau above. At this site the land is an alluvial flood plain



Page 87
with poorly drained marsh and reed beds. In earlier times the area was cultivated but flooding led to the
abandonment of agriculture until a small upstream reservoir was built in the 1960's. The entire area
encompasses over 600 ha of which some 30 ha is to be developed for the resettled population of some 600
people. The site is close to existing villages which will act as host communities. A survey of the ecology
of the area has revealed no rare or endangered species. In summary, although classified as wetland this
area is not of environmentally high quality. As a response to the loss of wetland used for resettlement of
the population displaced by the lower reservoir a very much larger area, about 853 ha, is planned to be set
aside as a nature reserve. This area is relatively close to the resettlement site but extends up the hillsides
towards the plateau. It is presently forested but not protected.
36.    Upper Reservoir. As at the lower reservoir the frequent rapid variation in water levels could in
theory increase erosion and lead to slope instability. In practice, the geology and soil characteristics will
prevent serious impacts. There is however one potential concern: there are a number of old landslides on
the slopes adjacent to the reservoir. They have been investigated in detail and are assessed as either stable
or of insufficient size to be a problem.
37.    Tourism and Scenic Values. The local authorities have some expectations that the Project could
enhance tourism, a view which partly explains the new tourist road to the upper reservoir. There are
reportedly plans to extend this road around the reservoir and also to open up access to the lower reservoir
after completion. Although the views of the surrounding countryside from the edge of the plateau are
undoubtedly magnificent, it is unclear whether the Project features as such would be scenically attractive
to tourists. The key issue is that both reservoirs with their frequent level variations will not present a lake-
like setting. Except when full, the reservoirs will be surrounded by unappealing mud flats. Moreover, for
security reasons ZPEPC has decided - quite appropriately - to prohibit direct public access to the
reservoirs for activities such as swimming, boating etc. Jurisdiction in this area is unclear. Certainly, a
major influx of tourists into the area could have harmful effects on the natural environment.
38.    Transmission Corridors. The new lines extend for 386 km and the land corridors (within which
access and land use has to be controlled) cover some 2400 ha. Approximately 25% of this area or 600 ha
is forested - the remaining area is either developed for agriculture or mountainous with little or no
vegetation cover. In the forested area tree growth which would encroach within 7m of the overhead
conductors will be cut. Given the undulating terrain and generally secondary forest this does not imply
large scale clearing. Shrubs and low trees will not be touched and in valley or gully bottoms all vegetation
can remain. It is therefore unlikely to have any significant impact - after the initial clearing effort during
construction - on wildlife habitat.
39.    Electromagnetic Radiation. To avoid impacting communications, the transmission lines have
been designed to meet the current standard with a maximum signal strength of 50 dB at 1 MHz within
20m of the conductors. Public health and safety will be safeguarded by prevention of any residential areas
adjacent to the lines and substations. Numerous research studies have shown that neither human nor
animal life has been adversely affected by the radiation levels generated.
40.    Archaeology and Historical Sites. Surveys have shown that there are no significant
archaeological or historic sites in the areas impacted by the Project.
General Mitigation Measures
41.    One of the most significant mitigation measures taken has been the consideration of
environmental impacts during the formulation and design of the Project. This is particularly applicable in
the selection of the location and alignment of the transmission lines and substations.



Page 88
42.    The criteria applied include the following:
(a) Avoidance of all areas of prirrie ecological significance;
(b) Avoidance of areas of archaeological and historical significance;
(c) Avoidance of areas of significant scenic or tourism value;
(d) Avoidance of areas liable to adversely impact safe operation, e.g. unstable slopes, seismically
active zones, flooding, heavy icing etc.;
(e) Avoidance as much as possible of populated areas, agricultural land, and existing
infrastructure.
43.    All relevant Chinese standards (these are now quite comprehensive and compare reasonably to
most international norms) which apply to both construction and design practice will be respected. Among
the construction practices specified are: use of appropriate drainage, collectors and settling basins to
prevent surface water contamination; waste disposal areas will be landscaped, drained and given surface
treatment to restore a beneficial environment; hunting or any abuse of the local fauna will be prohibited
among the workforce.
Environmental Management and Monitoring
44.   An environmental management organization will be established. During the construction period
the organization will be responsible for the following:
(a) Regular monitoring of potentially harmful emissions including: effluents and runoff,
atmospheric, noise;
(b) Supervision of the safety and health aspects during construction such as: sanitation, insect
control, of prevention of epidemic disease;
(c) Restoration work such as planting of disturbed areas;
(d) Maintenance of environmental data, records and files plus preparation of regular status
reports.
45.    Subsequent to construction, the organization will be retained - with appropriate modifications -
to monitor and environmental impacts during operation. In particular, water quality in the two reservoirs
and the Baizhang river will be monitored regularly.
46.   The plans for monitoring and management responsibility are summarized in the table which
includes also the estimated costs (investment and operation) plus the frequency and timing of the various
activities.
47.    The Project has allowed a substantial budget to cover environmental management and
monitoring. During the construction period estimated expenses are 6.5 million RMB ($800,000). This is
in addition to some related cost provisions within the budget for resettlement.
48.   A training program will be implemented to enhance environmental awareness among key
personnel involved with the construction andl operation. Staff directly engaged in the assessment and



Page 89
monitoring of environmental conditions will be given additional specialized training
Consultations with Public
49.    Tongbai Pumped Storage Project. To obtain public opinions of the project and to strengthen
environmental consciousness, two opinion surveys were carried out, one aimed at social organizations
and the other aimed at individuals who might be directly or indirectly affected by the project. The
questionnaires, results and analysis thereof are fully presented in the EIA.
50.   The first survey covered 22 government and non-government social organizations in Tiantai
County, the location of the pumped storage plant. These organizations included the People's congress
standing committee and consultative committee, science and technology association, consumer
association, the media (broadcast, television and newspapers), women's federation, senior citizens,
disabled and retired workers associations and the younger generation committee. All 22 organizations
supported the project. Among the reasons cited were:
(a)    The project will promote the development of local society, economy and tourism and
increase local financial incomes;
(b)    The project will speed up development of secondary and tertiary (services) industries and
accelerate rural electrification;
(c)    The project will provide a clean power source. With environmental protection measures
adopted during construction and operation period, there will be no significant
environmental impacts, rather it will benefit the ecological environment.
51.    The second survey covered 386 people in total, 100 of which were people to be relocated, 62 in
the affected area not resettled, and 224 people in the vicinity of the resettlement host site. They were
asked their attitude to the project and their assessment of its impact on themselves (living, studying,
working and recreation) on their neighbors and on economic development and the environment. It also
inquired about the attitude of resettlers to relocation and of host communities to accept resettlers. The
sample covered the full range of ages (all adult) and education levels. Among the 386 persons only two
persons opposed the project, a further seven were indifferent, with the remainder supporting construction.
Some 12 percent considered that the project would have a negative, but acceptable impact, 63 percent
considered it would have no significant impact with 25 percent assessing that it would have a positive
impact.
52.   In addition to the public consultations, a specialist group review meeting of the EIA was held
over the period October 19 to 21, 1996. This meeting was attended by 41 representatives from national,
provincial and county environment protection and water resource agencies, environmental science
associations, design institutes and universities. This group systematically reviewed the project
environmental impacts and proposed mitigation measures, and recommended specific mitigation
measures which were subsequently adopted in the national environmental protection agency's approval of
the project.
53.    Transmission Lines. A public-opinion survey was also carried out in the areas of the substations
and along the rote of the transmission lines. A sample of 88 people (listed by name in the EIA) were
asked to complete questionnaires relating to local environment, expected impact of construction on
environment, local economic development, society and themselves. Suggestions on environmental
mitigation measures were also solicited. Positive support from affected population was obtained. Their
suggestions mainly focused on avoidance of populated and cultivated areas as much as possible, adequate



Page 90
and timely compensation, arrangement of tower base excavation to avoid possible erosion and farm land
occupation, minimization of use of guyed towers.
Flow Regime Revisions
River Basin or    Drainage       Typical             Existing Situation           Impact of the
Point of Reference   Area, km2    Average                                              Project
Flow, m3/s    Normal Flows         Floods
Upper diversion    38.7            1.09        Diverted tb upper  Returned to     No change
area                                           reservoir         natural river
Baizhangkeng       15.5 km2        0.435       Diverted to upper  Returned to     No change
diversion area                                reservoir          natural river
Upper reservoir    6.7 km2         0.188      Naturally into the   Discharged over  No change except
area                                          upper reservoir    spillway        that spilling will be
extremely rare
Baizhangkeng,      5.9 km2         0.140      Untouched          Untouched        Forms the lower
lower reservoir area                                                              reservoir basin
Outlet of the lower  66.8 km2      1.85       From 5.9 km2       From 21.4 km2    Normal flow from
reservoir          (21.4 km2                   only              only             66.8 km2, floods
without                                                        unchanged. All
existing                                                       releases are
diversions)                                                    regulated by the
lower reservoir
Tailrace of the    60.9 kM2        1.71       From 60.9 km2      From 6.7 km2     Unchanged except
existing #2 power   (6.7 km2                                                      for regulation by
plant              without                                                        lower reservoir
diversions)
Junction of the    The area of     3.44       The diverted area   Untouched       Unchanged except
Baizhangkeng and   the Sanmao                  increases flow by                  for regulation by
the Sanmao         is 120 Km2                  about 32%                          lower reservoir
Junction of the    The area of    24.9         The diverted area   Untouched      Unchanged except
Sanmao and the     the Shifeng                increases flow by                   for regulation by
Shifeng            is 1040 Kr2                 about 3.7%                         lower reservoir



Page 91
ATTACHMENT 1
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, MANAGEMENT, MITIGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
Impacts            Principal                Mitigation Measures                                Monitoring, Acceptance, Inspection                          Cost        Supervising Unit
|    Location          Content                Unit        Frequency           Item                 Unit               Time          (103 Yuan)
CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Major Impacts
Social and health due    Mostly at      Provision of camp, medical    Contractor    Monthly        Health             Local hygienic and   On arrival and        1092
to influx of workers  Pumped Storage   and other support facilities                                examinations       epidemic prevention    as required
Plant (PSP)      on site                                                                       unit
Construction of Roads   Transmission    Minimize road length, use   Designer and   As required     NA                 Construction Unit    NA                  Built into    Local land bureau
in rural areas                         footpaths                    Contractor                                                                                  project
I rural areas                                                                investment
Moderate to Minor Impacts
Mostly PSP       Use designated areas only,  Contractor    As required      NA                 Construction Unit     NA                  1700 (for
Excavation Spoil                 provide drainage and land                 during                                                                      restoration)
Excavaton Spoil                        restoration                                construction                                                               plus built into
Disposal                                                                                                                                                        project
investment
All areas        Minimize use at night and by   Contractor    As required   NA                 Construction Unit     NA                 Built into
Increased Traffic                       heavy equipment                           during                                                                        project
construction                                                                investment
Mostly           Restrict access outside     Contractor    As required      NA                 Construction Unit     NA                    100        Local forest and
Wildlife              Transmission      immediate construction area,              during                                                                                     environmental
prohibit hunting etc.                     construction                                                                               protection bureaus
All areas        Adequate preparation and     Local         During          Environmental      Local monitoring      During                155        Local govemment,
planning, pay compensation    Resettlement  implementation   monitoring itcm  station              implementation    (not including   People's congress
Resettlement                            according to regulation,    Office        of RAP           and resettlement                        of RAP             resettlement    and environmental
timely and proper                                          method to be                                                  fee)        protection bureau
implementation                                             decided
All areas        Use low-noise equipment,     Contractor    Once a month    Leq, Leqmax        Local monitofing      Construction          750        Local
Noise                                   stop using high-noise                                                         station              peak period                       environmental
equipment                                                                                                                            protection bureau
Mostly PSP       Proper equipment selection  Contractor    Quarterly        S02, NOx, TSP      Local monitoring      Construction      20 monitoring   Local
Air Pollution                           use and maintenance                                        etc.               station              peak period           only        environmental
protection bureau
All areas        Use enclosing fences,       Contractor    Once a month    Visual inspection    Local monitoring     Construction          1500       Local
Dust Control                            spraying water periodically                                                   station              peak period                       environmental
protection bureau
All but mostly at   Setting temporary septic tank   Contractor    Once a month    COD, BOD5, SS    Local monitoring  Construction          600        Local
PSP              according to number of labor                               and colon bacillus   station             peak period                      environmcntal
Sewage                                  on site, and hauling out of site                           group                                                                     protection bureau
periodically                       I_I
Water Quality due to    Mostly at PSP   Provide settling and        Contractor    Typically 6      Ph, SS, COD and    Local monitoring     Construction      Included above
wastewater and                          collecting tanks, with                    times a year     BOD etc.           station              peak period
effluents                              treatment as required        ___                                                                                                    .



Page 92
Impacts            Principal                 Mitigation Measures                                 Monitoring, Acceptance, Inspection                          Cost         Supervising Unit
Location               Content                 Unit        Frequency            Item                 Unit               Time          (103 Yua n)
All areas         Specify sound design and    Designer and   NA               NA                 NA                    Construction        Built into
Land Erosion                            construction practice, notably   Contractor                                                          peak period          project
drainage, slope protection etc.                                                                                        investment
OPERATION PHASE    ,_.__                                                                                                                                                                     -
Major Impacts               ______NA_NA_NA_NA
Loss of land at Lower   PSP             None possible                NA            NA               NA                  NA                   NA                     NA
Reservoir
PSP, Baizhang     Control rate of discharge   Designer and   NA               NA                 NA                    NA                  Built into
Flow Regime           and other rivers   from Lower Reservoir        Owner                                                                                        project
investment
Resettlement      Provide compensation by     Owner          NA               NA                 NA                    NA                                Local
Loss of Wetland       area for PSP      creating a nature reserve                                                                                                              environmental
protection bureau
Mostly            Timely compensation to      Local          Construction     Acceptance survey   Acceptance team      Upon project        Built into    Local traffic
vegetatiofend other   Transmission      felling of tall trees, tree  Resettlement                                                            acceptance           project      bureau
vegetation                              planting at other location   Office                                                                                      investment
Substations and    Proper design, adopt       Designer and   One time after    Substation and    Local monitoring      Initial stage of    Built into    Local
Transmission      shielding for equipment     Owner          operation        representative     station               operation        project          env;.onmental
woreI necersrtion                                          trepesntativeo     stproject
I where necessary                                          trains,*ssiol_                                            investment and   protection bureau
Electromagnetic field                                                                               locations:                                                operation
electrostatic
induction, electric
and magnetic field
Moderate to Min or Impacts
PSP: reservoirs,    Reservoir clearing, limit  Contractor    Bi-monthly       Standard           Local monitoring      During              35 a year     Local
Water Quality         Baizhang and      human access                 and Owner                      properties          station              operation                         environmental
other rivers                                                                                                                                             protection bureau
Adjacent to       Minimize intrusion, provide    Designer and   NA            NA                 NA                    Construction        Built into
Land Erosion and      Upper Reservoir,  drainage, slope protection etc.  Contractor                                                          peak period and      project
slope stability        PSP              if required                                                                                          thereafter        investment and
operation
Tourism and Scenic    Mostly at PSP     Still under consideration    Owner
Values
Transmission      Traffic safety considered in  Owner        One time for     NA                 NA                    NA                  Built into    Local traffic
Line Crossings                         design, sufficient safety                  inspection after                                                               project      bureau
Line Crossings                          clearance of lines considered              operation                                                                    investment
in design
All areas         Adopt low-noise equipment,   Owner         Once a year      PSP, Substations    Local monitoring     Initial stage of    20 per year   Local
Noise                                   silencing materials, protection                             and field: Leq,     station              operation                         environmental
walls and greening                                          LeqMax                                                                     protection bureau



Page 93
Annex 12: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
China: Tongbai Pumped Storage Project
Project Budget                                  Planned              Actual'
(At final PCD stage)
$322,000             $295,600
Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            05/14/1998           05/14/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    03/15/1999           07/19/1999
Negotiations                                   04/30/1999           11/08/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/30/1999           05/01/2000
Prepared by: ZPEPC
Preparation assistance: Canadian Trust Funds (to Bank), PHRD (to Borrower)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Barry Trembath                 Principal Power Engineer (Task Team Leader)
Ranjit Lamech                  Energy Specialist (Alternate Task Team Leader)
Junhui Wu                      Power Engineer Transmission
William Lane                   Natural Resources Management Specialist
Vladislav Vucetic              Power Engineer (Pumped Storage)
Mikio Matsumura                Power Engineer (Distribution Management)
Clifford Garstang              Lawyer
Jianping Zhao                  Energy Specialist (Sector Specialist)
Chau-Ching Shen                Senior Financial Management Specialist
Peter Cordukes                 Financial Specialist (Consultant)
Youxuan Zhu                    Resettlement Specialist (Consultant)
Denrnis Creamer                Hydropower Engineer (Consultant)
Lynn Yeargin                   Team Assistant
'BB direct cost to November 30, 1999



Page 94
Annex 13: Documents in the Project File*
China: Tongjbai Pumped Storage Project
A. Project Implementation Plan, April 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
1.    Tongbai Pumped Storage 1Froject, Feasibility Study Report, by ECIDI, April 1998
2.    Zhejiang 500 kV Transmission and Substation Projects, Feasibility Study Report, by
ZPEPC, November 1998
3.    Cost Estimates (COSTAB)
4.    Economic Evaluation of Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Station and Tongbai Power
Transmission Component, by BERI, November 1998
5.    Plan of 500 kV Power Grid in 2000-2010 Zhejiang Province, by ZPEPC, November 1998
6.    Financial Projections ZPEPC and Tongbai
7.    ZPEPC and Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant Financial Projection
8.    Tongbai Pumped Storage Project, Environmental Impact Assessment Report, by ECIDI
and SPC, November 1998
9.    Zhejiang 500 kV Transmission and Substation Project, Environmental Impact
Assessment Report, by ZPEPC, October 1998
10.   Tongbai Pumped Storage Pioject, Resettlement Action Plan, by ZPEPC, October 1998
11.   Transmission Reinforcement Project, Resettlement Action Plan, by ZPEPC, October
1998
12.   Implementation Schedule, Detail Printouts (by P3 software)



Page 95
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 12-Jul-99
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Projects: 112
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         CONTAINER TRAINSPORT                    71.00        0.00        0.00             71.00
CN-PE-36953     1999   PRC                               HEALTH IX                               10.00       50.00        0.00             59.25
CN-PE-41268     1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               NAT.HWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                   350.00        0.-00       0.              350. 00
CN-PE-41890     1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         LIAONING URB TRANSP                    150.00        0.00        0.00            150.00
CN-PE-42299     1999   GOC                               TEC COOP CREDIT IV                      iC.00       35.00        0.00              44.39
CN-PE-43933     1999   PRC                               SICHUAN URB. ENV. I                    150.00        2.00        0.00            152.0-
CN-PE-46051     1999   PRC                               HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                     20.00       50.00        0.00              69.25
CN-PE-46564     1999   PRC                               WESTERN POVERTY RED                     60.00      100.00        0.00            158.76
CN-PE-46829     1999                                     RENEWABLE PROJECT                      100.00        0.00        0.00            100.00
CN-PE-49665     1999   PRC                               ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                    90.00       30.00        0.00            118.64
CN-PE-50036     1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         ANHUTI PROVINCIAL HWY                  200.00        0.00        0.00             198.00
CN-PE-51705     1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               FUJIAN II HWY                          200.00        0.00        0.00            200.03
CN-PE-51856     1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                     27.40        5.61        0.00             32.89
CN-PE-51888    1999   PRC                                GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                    80.00       20.00        0.00              99.67
CN-PE-56216     1999   PRC                               LOESS PLATEAU II                       i00.00       50.00        0.00            149.33
CN-PE-57352     1999   CHINA                             4TH RURAL WATER SUPP                    16.00       30.00        0.00              45.71
CN-PE-58308    1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          PENSION REFORM PJT                       0.00        5.00        0.00               4.95
CN-PE-63123     1999   PRC                               YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                    40.00       40.00        0.00              78.67
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                               SUST COAST RES DEV                     100.00        0.00        0.00              93.23
CN-PE-3566      1998                                     BASIC HEALTH                             0.00       85.00        0.00              79.62
CN-PE-35698    1998   PRC                                HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                   300.00        0.00        0.00            300.00
CN-PE-3591      1996   PRC                               STATE FARMS COMMERCI                   150.00        0.00        0.00              94.93
CN-PE-3606      1998   GOC                               ENERGY CONSERVATION                     63.00        0.00        0.00              63.C0
CN-PE-3614      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         GUJANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                  200.00        0.00        0.00             192.10
CN-PE-3619      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                   123.00        0.00        0.00             123.00
CN-PE-36414     1998   CHINA                             GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                      72.00       20.00        0.00              88.60
CN-PE-36949     1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA         NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                        250.00        0.00        0.00            225.97
CN-PE-40185     1998   PRC                               SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                    95.00        0.00        0.00              90.08
CN-PE-4578B    1996   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                     230.00        0.00        0.00             220.50
CN-PE-46563     1998   PRC                               TARIM BASIN II                          90.00       60.00        0.00             137.14
CN-PE-46952     1998   PRC                               FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                   100.00      100.00        0.00             190.46
CN-PE-49700     1998   PRC                               IAIL-2                                 300.00        0.00        0.00             280.00
CN-PE-51736     1998   GOC                               E. CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                   250.00        0.00        0.00             250.00
CN-PE-56491     1998   PRC                               HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                         0.00       28.40        0.00               5.59
CN-PE-34081     1997   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                   430.00        0.00        0.00             304.10
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                    30.00      150.00        0.00             140.82
CN-PE-3635      1997   PRC                               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                    10.00       20.00        0.00               9.08
CN-PE-3637      1997   PRC                               NATL RUR WATER III                       0.00       70.00        0.00              60.51
CN-PE-36405     1997   PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                   400.00        0.00        0.00             313.20
CN-PE-3643      1997   PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                   300.00        0.00        0.00             230.72
CN-PE-3650      1997   GOC                               TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                   400.00        0.00        0.00            379.68
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                   400.00        0.00        0.00             313.08
CN-PE-36952     1997   PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                             0.00       85.00        0.00              37.56
CN-PE-38988     1997   PRC                               HEILONGJIANG ADP                       120.00        0.00        0.00              89.32
CN-PE-44465     1997                                     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                    400.00        0.00        0.00             361.34
CN-PE-34618     1996   PRC                               LABOR MARKET DEV.                       10.00       20.00        0.00              22.35
CN-PE-3507      1996   GOC                               ERTAN HYDRO II                         400.00        0.00        0.00              21.59
CN-PE-3563      1996   PRC                               ANIMAL FEED                            150.00        0.00        0.00             136.59
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                            SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                   260.00        0.00        7.75             100.25
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                               DISEASE PREVENTION                       0.00      100.00        0.00              67.07
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                               GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                     60.00       90.00        0.00             124.68
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                 YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00       25.00        0.00             137.81
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                               HUBEl URBAN ENV. PRO                   125.00       25.00        0.00             123.89
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                    80.00       20.00        0.00              73.10
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                               CHONGQING IND POL CT                   170.00        0.00       77.99              91.61
CN-PE-3648      1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                SECOND SHANGFAI SEWE                   250.00        0.00        0.00             148.15
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                     0.00      100.00        0.00              30.96
CN-PE-3652      1996   PRC                               2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                   210.00        0.00        0.00             139.29
CN-PE-36950     1996   PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                       0.00      100.00        0.00               6.39
CN-PE-40513     1996   PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                     210.00        0.00        0.00             165.73
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                               INLAND WATERWAYS                       210.00        0.00        0.00              51.72
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                               RAILWAYS VII                           400.00        0.00       29.00             337.89
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                               SHENYANG IND. REFORM                   175.00        0.00        0.00              93.69
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                               YANGTZE BASIN WATER                    100.00      110.00        0.00              24.26
CN-PE-3598      1995                                     LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                   110.00        0.00        0.00              64.64
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                               TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                   200.00        0.00        0.00             117.40
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                               ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                   275.00       75 .00      20.00             189.23
CN-PE-36041     1995   MOF                               FISCAL & TAX REF. &                     25.00       25.00        0.00              41 08



Page 96
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                    150.00        0.00        0.00             35.46
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                    0.00       90.00        0.00             14.30
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                              BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00      100.00        0.00              3.14
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   47.50      200.00        0.00             81.40
CN-PE-3642      1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00        0.00            120.10
CN-PE-36947     1995   GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  270.00        0.00        0.00            132.50
CN-PE-37156     1995   PRC                              IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00       20.00        7.00              1.75
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                              RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00        0.00             23.11
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                              HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                  380.00        0.00        0.00             39.36
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                              LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00      150.00        0.00             21.43
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00      200.00        0.00             31.38
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00        0.00                .43
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160.00        0.00        0.00             58.50
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00      205.00        0.00             23.97
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                    0.00      150.00        0.00             39.81
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION        255.00        0.00        0.00            116.34
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0.00        0.00              7.36
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140.00        0.00        0.00             58.63
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                  350.00        0.00        0.00             65.19
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                 0.00      110.00        0.00             22.84
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00        0.00        0.00              2.08
CN-PE-3533      1993                                    TIANOIN IND. II                       150.00        0.00       40.35             11.59
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                    0.00      115.00        0.00              6.87
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICEUAN ADP                             0.00      147.00        0.00              5.41
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                              EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                    0.00      100.00        0.00              4.46
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                              RAILWAY VI                            420.00        0.00        0.00             83.23
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                              SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.          250.00        0.00        0.00              4.15
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120.00        0.00        0.00              8.25
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                              REF. INST'L.& PREINV                    0.00       50.00        0.00             16.55
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      100.00        0.00             47.41
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                              TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                   300.00        0.00        0.00             69.67
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00        0.00             17.68
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00      165.00        0.00            314.28
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                              ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                    0.00       50.00        0.00             10.57
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                              ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00        0.00        0.00             19.75
CN-PE-3544      1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                    0.00      130.00        0.00              1.46
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANIJIN URB DEV & EN                   0.00      100.00        0.00             15.29
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00      129.60        0.00             29.13
Total                                                                                      14,926.90   4,207.61       182.09         10,630.5C
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              8,240.60           13,305.17          21,545.77
of which has been repaid:                 77.78           2,663.84            2,741.62
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             18,874.59           10,319.66          29,194.25
Amount sold                                       0.00               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :           10,6:30.50              69.26          10,699.76



Page 97
Statement of IFCs Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-July-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
-----------Held-----        ------Disbursed---------
----------IFC--------
FY Approval       Company               Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
1987/92/94        China Bicycles        8.50   3.39   0.00   0.00   8.50   3.39   0.00   0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP         3.76   .99   0.00   0.00   3.76   .99   0.00   0.00
1993              Yantai Cement        12.47   1.95   0.00   6.66  12.47   1.95   0.00   6.66
1994              China Walden Mgt      0.00   .01   0.00   0.00   0.00   .01   0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden JV       0.00   5.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.17   0.00   0.00
1994              Dynamic Fund          0.00  12.35   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.08   0.00   0.00
1994              Dalian Glass         19.36   2.40   0.00  36.89  19.36   2.40   0.00  36.89
1994/97           PTP Leshan           11.20   1.00   0.00  14.00  11.20   1.00   0.00  14.00
1995              Dupont Suzhou        21.81   4.15   0.00  41.60  21.81   4.15   0.00  41.60
1995              Newbridge Inv.        0.00   7.19   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.89   0.00   0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC           22.00   2.48   0.00  22.20  22.00   2.48   0.00  22.20
1996              Beijing Hormel        4.64   .50   0.00   4.95   4.64    .50   0.00   4.95
1996              Nanjing Kumho        15.03   3.81   0.00  42.73  12.66   3.81   0.00  35.98
1996              Jingyang             40.00   0.00   0.00 100.00  40.00   0.00   0.00 100.00
1996              TianjinKumho         11.17   0.00   0.00  33.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri      3.97   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.97   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997              Ningbo                0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
1997              Orient Finance       13.33   0.00   0.00  16.67  13.33   0.00   0.00  16.67
1997              PTP Hubei            12.63   0.00   0.00  25.38  10.96   0.00   0.00  22.04
1998              Chengdu Chemical      0.00   3.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998              Caltex Ocean         21.00   0.00   0.00  45.00  18.77   0.00   0.00  40.23
1998              Chengxin-IBCA         0.00   .36   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998              CIG Port Holding      0.00   1.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998              Leshan Scana          6.10   1.35   0.00   0.00   3.00   1.35   0.00   0.00
1998              Pacific Ports         0.00   3.64   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.64   0.00   0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC         2.75   0.00   0.00   2.75   2.25   0.00   0.00   2.25
1998              WIT                   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998              Zhen Jing             0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
1999              Hansom                0.00  16.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                      234.72  75.77   0.00 391.83 208.68  47.81   0.00 343.47
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity  Ouasi Partic
1999              BOS                   0.00  21.74   0.00   0.00
1998              CHEMICAL              7.40   0.00   0.00   8.60
1997              CHINEFARGE           12.80   0.00   0.00  20.00
1999              DUJIANGYAN           25.59   0.00   0.00  30.00
1997              NISSAN/DONGFENG   20.20   0.00   0.00  27.00
1998              ORIENT FIN A INC      3.33   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997              PTP HOLDINGS          0.00   1.50   0.00   0.00
1998              SHANGHAI KRUPP    30.00   0.00   0.00  78.44
1999              SHANXI               19.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997              SMC.                 14.00   0.00   0.00  14.00
1998              XIB                  50.00  20.00   0.00   0.00
1998              ZHEN JING             4.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:              186.82  43.24   0.00 178.04



Page 98
Annex 15: Country at a Glance
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &     Low-      .
Chira    Pacific  income      Development diamond'
1998
Poputation, mid-year (millions)                   1,238.6     1,817    3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method, USS)                   750       990       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    928,9     1,802    1,844
Average anntal growth, 1992-98
Population (M)                                        1.) 1.2             1.7l.|
Laborforoce %)                                        1,3       1.6       1.9      N P                            Gross
per                            primary
Mst meent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty(% of population below ational poverty line)    6          -        -
Urban population (% of total populatien)              33        35        31                       T
Life expectancy at birth (yeaes)                     7i0        69        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              S2        37        69
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)             16        20         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of pop,ulation)               el        77        74
Illiteracy (% of population age tE+)                  17        15        32
Gross primary enrollment (i/o of school-age poputation)  120   117       108 6China              Low-incomegroup
Male                                               120       119       113Cia                      o-nom   ru
Female                                             120       118       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ biifonsr)                         172.3   268,2      902.0    960.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.5    36,1       38.2     3                          .rd
Exports of goods and services/GDP            4.8    13.6       23.0     19.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  29,0    36.2       42.6     43.4
Grss national savIngsOGOP                   29.0    36.2       41.S     41.4                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  0.2      0.1       3.8      34       Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      0. 0      0.6      0 7      Doest                      Investment
Totai debt/GDP                                 ..    13.2      16.3      16.2     Savigs
Total debt service/exports                    ..      9.6       9.6      9.5                       i
Present value of debt/GDP                     *                14.9
Present value of debtlexports                  .       .,      62.7
Indebtedness
`197747  1985-96    1997      1998   1999S3
(average annual growth)
GDP  :                              9.S    10.3       8.8       7.8       70         -    hn_L4cmgo
GNP per capita                      6.5      8.6      7.4       6.5      6.2          China  -    Low-income grup
Exports of goods and services      18.4    14.4    23.1         4.6      4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 29.4    26.8       18.7      18.0
Industry                                    47.1     43.9      49.5     49.2
Manufacturing                             31.1    34.4       37.3      36. S
Services                                    23.4    29.3       32.1     32.8
Private consumption                         63.4    51.3       45.7     44.5            93   94   95   96   97   95
General government consumption               7.5    12.5       11.6      11.9              _     G01    -Q-GDP
Imports of goods and services                4.2    13.5       18.5      14.3
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  6.4      4.4       3.5       3.5   40
Industry                                    10.9    14.1       10.8      9.2    30
Manufacturing                             11.4    13.4        9.9       8.9
Services                                    12.7      8.6       8.2       7.6   20
Private consumption                          9.7      8.6       7.7       8.7
General govemment consumption                9.0      9.9       8.2       8.4    o
Gross domestic investment                   10.7    11.7        7.6       7.6           93   94   95   96   97   98
Imports of goods and services               19.2    12.5       12.7       1.5            -Exports          Imports
Gross national product                      10.0    10.0        8.5       7.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



Page 99
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation {%O)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         T
Consumer prices                               ..      7.3       2.8     -0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.6      5.1       1.2     -1.3    10
Government finance                                                                0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      93   94   9S   96   97   99
Current revenue                                ..    21.5      12.0     12.8   .10
Current budget balance                         ..     4.2       0.6     -2.2             -GDP deflator           CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.1       -1.5     -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987      1997      1998      Exportandimportlevels(USSmillIons)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182,792  183,757     2000.
Food                                         *    4,781    11,075   10,619           T
Fuel                                         ..   4,544     6,987    5,181      50o,ooo                  01i.-
Manufactures                                 ..  26,206   158,838   163,157                         1
Total imports (cif)                           ..  43,216   142,370  140,166    100,0001
Food                                         ..3,055  8,308  8,483                            ihh00
Fuel and energy                              ..    539    10,306    6,773
Capital goods                                ..  21,110    57,930   61,915    |
92  93  94  99  96  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      75         95       89
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      75        92        89                 a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..     99        104      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio j%)
Exports ofgoods and services               8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589    4
Imports of goods and services              8,148   38,880   166,754  165,900
Resource balance                            402      240    40,497   41,689      21
Netincome                                     82    -215   -11,097   -13.428
Net current transfers                        -70     224      5,144    4,278       jEi                     J       I
92   94  95  99  97  98
Current account balance                      414     249    34,544   32,540
Financing items (net)                       -320    4,534     1,313  -26,114
Changes in net reserves                      -94   -4,783   -35,857   -6,426    14
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..  22,500   147,000
Conversion rate (DEC, locabaUS$)             1.9      4.5       8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ mirlions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   146,697  156,105
IBRD                                        ..   1,427      8,239    9,610    1                                       1
IDA                                         ..   1,330      7,830    8,693            G          A: 9.610   03
Total debt service                             .   3,852    18,445   13,009                                  0:3,946
IBRD                                        ..    208        858       940
IDA                                         ..      12        81        97                                   E:21,862
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    209        228
Official creditors                          ..    626       4,315    2,282
Private creditors                           ..  5,462       8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    44,236   45,000
Portfolio equity                             .       0      8,457    1.153               F: 82,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                       1,306     2,425    2,636     A - IBR0                     E - Bitaterat
Disbursements                               ..    702       2,275    2,061     B - IDA    0 - Other muOilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      97       377       434     C - IMF                      G - Short-trml
Net flows                                    ..    605      1,898    1,627
Interest payments                           ..    124        562       602
Net transfers                               ..    482       1,335    1,024
Development Economics                                                                                              9/2/99






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30534
CHINA                                                       -,\      121'                                122'
TONGBAI PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT                                                                    ~~
ZHEJIANG POWER GRID                                                                          %                     0
ToJi,angsu               JIA'NGSU                  \
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A         A      L~~~~h   500 kV SUBSTATIONS 
o                           THERMAL POWER PLANTS                  50WI/SHANGHAI
Chanqxing (5  W
m                )~~~~~Z~~E   HYDRO POWER PLANTS    42,S3007iwv)                                                                                    31-
El    NUCLEAR POWER PLANTSI e`ixI
% (75 P                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~To Shanghai
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                     HZO 
TianhuangipingAXN
- -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              1230MWacdng 14.400 04W)
(inset)                                                                                                 (00MV
Pingydo    Sonshan
I              ~~~~~~~Wangjiongflel Xm5~(170MA                                 Yon750 MVA)0MGT
ANHUI                                               (2.50MIW1                                               onx           (l1050MWGT
30'                                                                                                               A NfO0Xashn F LnigZhenhai30
i,A MG)1 5 MV)                   HAOMI                     Nig.            1460 M 2x6OjsM
(292,2MW1           "A                                             )1x0mVA          Yingictigshczn  (4.600 MW)
'Fuchuniiang
4%  -                   ~~~~~~Xinanhiang     m
(662.5MW) ,
1                                     4,~~~~~~~
29' ~~.        Quhua4                                 Shluanglong 11,75o MW)               -  4.300ODMW)                0   isat
53          -                       ~~~~~~~~~29'-
-HuangtankouTAZO
182 MIW)
"Shitang
~~~~  i ~~~~~~(78 MW)                              ~
' mWuxiiiofng                    .'        ~WENZHOU
/   ~~~      /  1~~270 MW)
122'
->                     ~~~~~~~~~3.200 MW)
Tankeng -
I- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (20W                                                                            RUSSIAN           "I
__                                                                   ~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,,,zheu  ,~.,FEDERATION  \,
28'                                        (300 MW)                     ,02'                                     j                             0"~N
Jinshuitan -                       ~~~Longwan
Jinshuiton=W                             (3e~    100 MW) 0         MONGOLIA        ,
A  -  --                                                            R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF
ii-                      Ix1000MVA)   ~~~~~~~~~...  .. ~~~~~ ~~,,                      / ~~KOREA
-   mBaizhangjii''                                                                       REP. OF JAPAN
(37 MW)                                                 0       <    DN           KOREA
in;5 n~~~~~~~~ap soon pradarad ho  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ~~~ANG5b
th. Map oesig,, U,,t o Th.              .O.                                                                                                        G *A)
World B-k,. Th. bha.,dads,                                           * 
,alrn doamootoa  -d                                                            S                                          '              ZHEJIANG
oni .1.np do oat Soply, Aos
the part of Tha World B-ok       0      215    50     715   100                                                                                   of~     Matp
Grap, a-y ),dg-at a,te                                 I      I"WAN
-rnyador--,nt ,rKILOMETERS
oocodPIrioca of ,,,I,119'                                  120'                                121"                             ACO
I             I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VfET`NAm    MAA
DECEMBER 1999



