Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA
Project Agreement
(Tongbai Pumped Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated June 5, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER 
COMPANY (ZPEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to 
the Borrower an amount equal to three hundred twenty million Dollars 
($320,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but 
only on condition that ZPEPC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ZPEPC the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to ZPEPC on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ZPEPC in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, wherever used herein.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ZPEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
technical, and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Bank and ZPEPC shall otherwise agree, ZPEPC shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ZPEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, ZPEPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Bank and ZPEPC, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project;  and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with ZPEPC on said plan.
Section 2.04. ZPEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ZPEPC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ZPEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
ZPEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ZPEPC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZPEPC
Section 3.01. ZPEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
technical and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ZPEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial, environmental, technical and public utility 
practices.
Section 3.03. ZPEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ZPEPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
ZPEPC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ZPEPC shall 
produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 
31, 1999, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the 
annual average of ZPEPC's capital expenditures, incurred, or expected to be 
incurred, for that year, the previous year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years, commencing in 2000, 
ZPEPC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by ZPEPC and 
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
Page  4
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that ZPEPC would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for ZPEPC's fiscal years covered by such 
review, ZPEPC shall promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: (A) the 
sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and 
consumer contributions in 
aid of construction, net non-operating income and 
any reduction 
in working capital other than cash; and (B) the sum of all 
expenses related to operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance 
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
(excluding provision for depreciation 
and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt service requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, increase 
in working capital 
other than cash and other cash outflows other 
than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues 
from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and (B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the 
difference between 
current assets excluding cash and 
current liabilities at the end of each 
fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets 
other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of 
business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating 
expenses 
within the next fiscal year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which 
will become due and 
payable or could under circumstances 
then existing be called for payment 
within twelve 
months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures on 
account of fixed 
assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations, and 
long term 
investments.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such 
Page  5
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ZPEPC shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ZPEPC 
shows that the estimated net revenues of ZPEPC for each fiscal year during the term of 
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of ZPEPC in such year, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ZPEPC maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement 
or other instrument providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its 
terms of 
payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and 
(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) 
the sum of revenues 
from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and (B) 
the sum of all expenses 
related to operations including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues 
from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and (B) expenses, 
including rates and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
ZPEPC not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both 
the Bank and ZPEPC accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified 
ZPEPC of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results 
of ZPEPC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. ZPEPC shall prepare and, by April 30 of each year during 
Project implementation, commencing April 30, 2000, furnish annually to the Bank 
for review, a rolling long-term financial plan (including projected income 
statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets covering a period of no 
Page  6
less than eight years) and exchange views with the Bank on its financial 
position, focusing on comparison of actual financial performance with agreed 
targets, operating cost trend, future investment and related financing 
arrangements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ZPEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ZPEPC 
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by 
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or 
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the 
party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified 
are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ZPEPC:
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
2 Jinzhu Road (South)
Hangzhou, Zhejiang
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
Facsimile:
35053 ZPEPB CN
86-571-515-3979
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf 
of ZPEPC may be taken or executed by its General Manager, or by such other 
Page  7
person or persons as said General Manager shall designate in writing, and ZPEPC 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each 
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower 
excluding the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 
Page  8
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the 
Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless 
of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature or should be procured as an 
extension of an existing contract and costing $1,500,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C above and estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
Page  9
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A and C of the Project for the provision of training 
and advisory services on regulatory and technical matters, and estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for construction management under Part A of the Project and for 
tasks that represent a natural continuation of previous work may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
Page  10
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program 
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following:
A. Project 
Management 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, ZPEPC shall 
continue to make available competent staff (including environmental staff 
organized in an environmental management unit) in adequate numbers and with 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall 
coordination and supervision of project implementation, the supervision of 
procurement of goods and services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality 
and impact of the Project, and the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of 
reports and other information thereon.
B.
Project Implementation
1.
ZPEPC shall carry out the training under the Project in accordance with a 
training and management development program acceptable to the Bank.
2.
ZPEPC shall carry out a program of power sector restructuring under Part C 
of the Project in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Bank.
3.
ZPEPC shall: (i) ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with 
the Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; and (ii) shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank an 
Page  11
evaluation report promptly upon completion of the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons as described in the Resettlement Action Plan.
4. 
ZPEPC shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with 
a time bound action plan acceptable to the Bank.
5.
ZPEPC shall, during the period of Project implementation:
(a)
continue to employ a panel of experts to review design and 
construction procedures relating to dams;
(b)
prepare, in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to 
the Bank, detailed plans for: (i) construction supervision and quality 
assurance; (ii) instrumentation; (iii) operation and maintenance; and (iv) 
emergency preparedness; and
(c)
carry out periodic inspections of all dams after their completion.
C.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
ZPEPC shall:
1.
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank,  (a) the carrying out of the Project, 
including the Resettlement Action Plan and (b) the achievement of the objectives 
of the Project;
2.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank semi- annual reports on or about April 30 and October 31 in each year, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to Paragraph 1 above on the physical and financial progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plan, during 
the preceding calendar year together with any revisions proposed to be made in 
the Resettlement Action Plan in order to achieve the objectives thereof and any 
measures proposed to further the objectives of  the Project; and
3.
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
Paragraph 2 above hereof, and promptly introduce such revisions into the 
Resettlement Action Plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and take such 
measures to further the objectives of  the Project as shall have been agreed 
with the Bank.
