Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Tongbai Pumped Storage Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 5, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 2000, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Zhejiang Provincial Electric 
Power Company (ZPEPC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ZPEPC the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and ZPEPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“Euro', '€' and 'EUR' each means the lawful currency of the member 
states of the 
European Union that adopt the single currency in 
accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by 
the Treaty on European Union.”;
(b)
a new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 as follows:
“(d)
If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and 
payable to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall 
have the right to allocate and apply 
the amount so received in any manner and 
for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as the 
Bank shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”; and
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing in the second sentence, the 
word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end 
of said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed 
by mail.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used 
herein:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of 
the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and 
“Affected Persons” means collectively all persons who qualify as  an Affected 
Person.
(b)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management 
plans dated March 1999 in respect of Part A of the Project and October 1998 in 
respect of Part B of the Project, prepared by ZPEPC for the monitoring and 
mitigation of the environmental impact of the Project, as said plan may be 
supplemented or modified from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(c)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and ZPEPC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
“Resettlement Action Plan”, means the plans, acceptable to the 
Bank, dated January 1999, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of Affected Persons in respect of Parts A and B of the Project as said 
resettlement plans may be supplemented and amended from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank.
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
(f)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
Page  3
between the Borrower and ZPEPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(g)
“Zhejiang” means the Borrower’s province of Zhejiang, and any 
successor thereto.
(h)
"ZPEPC" means Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company, a 
corporation established and existing under the laws of the Borrower in 
accordance with: (i) Business License No. 3300001002345, dated October 15, 1990, 
issued by Zhejiang Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau; and (ii) the 
ZPEPC Charter.
(i)
"ZPEPC Charter" means the charter of ZPEPC, dated March 30, 1990, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ZPEPC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
three hundred twenty million Dollars ($320,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal 
to three million two hundred thousand Dollars ($3,200,000).  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the 
Page  4
first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the 
Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, shall cause ZPEPC to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ZPEPC therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable ZPEPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ZPEPC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ZPEPC (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank.  Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
Page  5
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid 
by ZPEPC in 
Dollars to the Borrower over a period not 
exceeding twenty (20) years, 
including a grace period of 
five (5) years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by 
ZPEPC shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the 
date, or respective dates, of 
repayment) of the value of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account; and
(iii)
the subsidiary loan shall be charged: (A) interest on the 
amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the 
Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this 
Agreement; and (B) a commitment charge on the principal amount thereof not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three 
fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of the Project shall be carried out by ZPEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
(i) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ZPEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that ZPEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ZPEPC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
Page  7
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ZPEPC, and is legally binding upon ZPEPC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and ZPEPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ZPEPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
  Telex:
Facsimile:
FINAMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
8610-6855-1125
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Beijing, People's Republic of  China, as of the day and year 
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the Loan
   Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local 
expenditures
(a)
Under Part A 
   180,000,000
(ex-factory cost)
of the Project
and 75% of local
expenditures for
(b)
Under Part B 
    78,000,000
other items procured
of the Project
locally
(2)
Consultants' services
100%
(a)
Under Part A of
     7,200,000
the Project
(b)
Under Part B of
     2,000,000
the Project
(c)
Under Part C of
     7,500,000
the Project
(3)
Training
100%
(a)
Under Part A of
     1,200,000
the Project
(b)
Under Part B of
     2,500,000
the Project
(4)
Fee
     3,200,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    38,400,000
TOTAL
          320,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
Page  9
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, 
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each; (b) consulting services 
under contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) consulting services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase peaking capacity and 
improve load following capability and power quality in the power system of 
Zhejiang and the Borrower’s provinces of Anhui and Jiangsu and municipality of 
Shanghai; and (b) improve operating and investment efficiency in power 
generation through the development and implementation of a competitive 
generation market in Zhejiang.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant
Construction of a pumped storage hydroelectric power plant on the Tongbai 
and Baizhang Rivers in Zhejiang, together with a lower reservoir and an 
underground powerhouse and water conveyance system.
Part B:
Transmission and Distribution
Expansion and reinforcement of the transmission network in Zhejiang 
through:
1.
construction of two 500 kilovolt (kV) substations at Xiaoshan and Yongxi, 
each with a capacity of 750 megavolt amperes (MVA);
2.
expansion of existing 500kV substations at Ningbo and Wenzhou by 1000 MVA 
each and the erection of a 500kV transmission line of approximately 275 
kilometers (km) between said substations; 
3.
erection of twin 500kV transmission lines of approximately 110 km 
connecting the Tongbai pumped storage plant to the 500kV grid at Zhuji and the 
Page  10
construction of a 500kV substation with a capacity of 750MVA at Zhuji; 
4.
erection of three short 500kV double-circuit transmission lines connecting 
substations at Zhuji, Yongxi and Xiaoshan to existing transmission lines;
5.
implementation of distribution management systems in Hangzhou and Ningbo 
and development of customer service centers in Zhejiang; and
6.
supply and installation of associated telecommunication and dispatch 
automation equipment.
Part C:
Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan
Development and implementation of a program of power market development 
and sector restructuring in Zhejiang through:
1.
implementation of a competitive power generation market in Zhejiang;
2.
restructuring of ZPEPC with a view to separating generation from 
transmission functions, including the incorporation of power generation entities 
in Zhejiang as limited liability companies;
3.
consolidation of decentralized and fragmented distribution operations into 
county-level distribution entities and the subsequent incorporation of said 
entities as limited liability companies;
4.
development and implementation of a regulatory framework and establishment 
of a provincial regulatory authority in Zhejiang;
5.
implementation of an office automation system and an enterprise resource 
planning system in ZPEPC;
6.
carrying out of a study of and preparation of recommendations for a 
program of power sector customer relations in Zhejiang; and
7.
carrying out of studies of: (a) generation planning and retail tariff 
design; and (b) introduction of a conditional maintenance program into the 
Zhejiang power system; and
8.
carrying out of a program of training for selected staff of ZPEPC in 
business administration, corporate governance, conditional maintenance, power 
market management; distribution management; power station technical and 
commercial operation and utility management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2005
 6,700,000
March 15, 2006
 6,900,000
September 15, 2006
 7,110,000
March 15, 2007
 7,325,000
Page  11
September 15, 2007
 7,545,000
March 15, 2008
 7,775,000
September 15, 2008
 8,010,000
March 15, 2009
 8,255,000
September 15, 2009
 8,505,000
March 15, 2010
 8,760,000
September 15, 2010
 9,025,000
March 15, 2011
 9,300,000
September 15, 2011
 9,580,000
March 15, 2012
 9,870,000
September 15, 2012
10,165,000
March 15, 2013
10,475,000
September 15, 2013
10,790,000
March 15, 2014
11,120,000
September 15, 2014
11,455,000
March 15, 2015
11,800,000
September 15, 2015
12,160,000
March 15, 2016
12,525,000
September 15, 2016
12,905,000
March 15, 2017
13,295,000
September 15, 2017
13,695,000
March 15, 2018
14,110,000
September 15, 2018
14,540,000
March 15, 2019
14,980,000
September 15, 2019
15,430,000
March 15, 2020
15,895,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $14,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $140,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
Page  12
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
Page  13
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
