Report No. PID6799
Project Name                     China-Tongbai Pumped Storage Project (@+#)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       CNPE56424
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
(ZPEPC)
2, Jinzhu Road (South)
Hangzhou
China 310007
Tel:   571-515-1166
Fax: 571-515-3979
Date PID Prepared                July 19, 1999
Projected Appraisal              July 19, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 16, 1999
Background
Country and Sector Background
Adequate electricity supply in China requires an annual investment of about
$15-20 billion per year - representing additions of about 12 to 15 GW of
generation capacity and downstream transmission and distribution
infrastructure. Remarkable progress has been achieved in diversifying
financing sources through the involvement of private investors in developing
generation projects (14 GW under construction and 11.5 GW in commercial
operation) and listing of power generation companies in local and
international stock markets (21 companies listed locally and four companies -
9 GW - listed in international markets). Despite the government's efforts to
develop innovative financing schemes through joint venture and BOT projects,
listing of generation companies in local and international stock exchanges,
and securitization of existing assets to raise private funds, the sector
still faces severe capital constraints especially at the transmission level,
and in relation to large hydropower and pumped storage plants where there are
substantial difficulties involved in private development. The impediments
identified are: (a) weakness of domestic capital markets and inadequate
mechanisms to channel domestic savings into power sector investments; (b)
tariff surcharges which have been a major source of finance for sector
expansion have been largely levied at the local level, leading to
inappropriately sized generation expansion; (c) lack of a transparent legal
and regulatory system; and (c) lack of a commercial framework and physical
infrastructure to encourage power trading which would in turn allow the
development of larger, economically sized generating units; (d) an investment
approval system which favors the development of small size generating units;
and (e) inappropriate risk allocation models and suitable debt financing
instruments for financing of hydropower and pumped storage plants with very
long asset lives. As a result of the above constraints about half of the
capacity added in recent years is in small inefficient units (100 MW and
less), financed largely through local tariff surcharges, approved at the
local level, built close to load centers so as to minimize up front capital



costs and transmission requirements.
Transmission Bottlenecks. Transmission infrastructure in China has not been
adequately developed to allow for efficient system development and supply cost
minimization. Plants are not always located in regions where the overall
system cost is minimized ? some of the large plants constructed in areas
close to load centers which require the transport of large quantities of coal
on an overextended transport system, were not economically justified.     The
transmission bottlenecks continue to contribute to investment inefficiencies
(lost economies of scale), location inefficiencies (overburdening of the
railway system), environmental inefficiencies (heavy pollution burden on
densely populated areas with limited local absorption capacity), and
operational inefficiencies (uneconomic dispatch, higher losses).
Inadequate Wholesale Electricity and Transmission Pricing Systems. There are
two significant shortcomings of the wholesale pricing system in the power
sector in China.   The first relates to the pricing of wholesale/bulk capacity
and energy sales/purchases from generating plants. The second relates to the
inadequate recognition of transmission as a separate service that needs to be
separately accounted for in electricity tariffs.    These inadequacies of
wholesale electricity pricing are partially responsible for the inefficient
utilization and dispatch of generating capacity.     Inefficient resource use
stems from operation of old and/or small inefficient and therefore higher
coal-consumption plants in lieu of modern, more efficient plants. The non
recognition of the importance of transmission service is reflected in the
inability, until recently, of utilities to include costs related to
transmission in sales tariffs and to secure adequate investments for the
transmission infrastructure. This is also impeding the implementation of the
purchasing agency model, and progress towards competition at the generation
level.
Complicated and Inappropriate Tariff Structures at the Consumer Level. The
"new power new price" policy introduced during the early 1980s, together
with legal and illegal surcharges levied at the provincial and local levels
has had the desirable effect of raising overall tariffs to levels approaching
(and in some areas exceeding) long run marginal cost. However, these policies
have left behind a legacy of consumer tariff structures which are complicated
to administer; favor older inefficient industries over newer efficient ones;
and unduly discriminate between user categories.
Unclear Corporate Relationships between Power Sector Entities. Currently
power companies in China operate at three main levels: national, regional and
provincial/municipal: (a) the provincial/municipal power companies are
responsible for generation and transmission within a province or large
province-level municipality (e.g. Beijing, Shanghai); (b) the regional power
entities hold the central government ownership rights to, and are responsible
for supervision of, several provincial/municipal power companies, and are
also responsible for inter-provincial power transfers; and (c) the national
power entity holds the central government's ownership rights in the regional
entities and is responsible for inter-regional power transfers.     However,
this multi-layer relationship is not clearly and transparently reflected in
the corporate governance.    Commercial and financial transactions are still
carried out according to administrative rules rather than market forces.
Unclear ownership rights and inadequate corporate relationships between
different power entities in China impede: (a) the full corporatization of
-2 -



power entities to meet the requirements of the Company Law; (b) the
development of appropriate governance at the three corporate levels; and (c)
the commercial operations, financial independence, and profit orientation of
the sector entities.
Excessive Reliance on Coal. China's heavy reliance on coal (especially for
power generation) is expected to continue over the next two to three decades.
Total installed capacity at end of 1998 was 273 GW, 76 percent of which is
thermal capacity and the rest hydropower (23 percent) and nuclear power (less
than one percent). The existing generation capacity is over-weighted towards
base load plant particularly in coastal provinces where untapped hydropower
resources are dwindling, and has, as noted above, a large proportion of
generating capacity in small power plants which are often coal fired.
Low Efficiency of Electricity Supply and Use. Improvement in energy
efficiency in China is clearly indicated by the sustained low elasticity of
demand to GDP growth: 0.86 during 1980-97. However, the potential for
electricity conservation on both the supply and demand sides is still high.
The government is now promoting programs to reduce losses on the supply side
and market-based initiatives to improve electricity use.
Government Strategy. The Government's strategy seeks to implement reforms on
multiple fronts.    The main elements of the Government's strategy to address
the above problems are:
Completely separating generation from transmission and distribution functions.
This strategy is being aggressively implemented in many provinces -- all
vertically integrated provincial power companies have been required to define
a strategy to separate generation assets.
Introducing competition at the generation level within provincial power
systems, and developing regional power markets for inter-provincial trade.
Establishing formal regulatory mechanisms at the Central and Provincial
Government levels. This follows from the abolition of the Ministry of
Electric Power in April 1998, and the transfer of its government
regulation/supervision functions to the State Economic and Trade Commission
(SETC).
Developing sound corporate governance practices for state-owned power
corporations and clarifying the relationships between national, regional and
provincial level companies.
Expanding and mainstreaming successfully strategies to raise private capital -
including: (i) BOT projects with full foreign ownership developed through
competitive bidding; (ii) joint investment projects with foreign investors;
(iii) domestic and foreign equity listing of power enterprises; and (iv)
securitization of existing generation assets to raise capital from private
sources.
Mitigating the environmental impacts of a coal dominated power system by: (i)
developing hydropower and other renewable energy resources, and pumped storage
plants in areas where hydro resources are depleted; (ii) requiring the
mandatory retirement of around 10 GW of small inefficient and polluting coal
fired thermal units by year 2000; and (iii) using S02 emission taxes and
requiring flue gas desulphurization technologies.
Increasing energy supply efficiency by: (i) reducing operating losses in
generation, transmission and distribution; and (ii) expanding demand side
management through pricing and energy conservation measures.
Rationalizing wholesale generation tariffs and transmission tariffs,
consistent with the complete separation generation from the transmission and
- 3 -



distribution assets.
Rationalizing consumer tariffs, including the rolling in of existing
surcharges into a unified tariff structure, and the banning of future
surcharges
Objectives
The project has two objectives:
(a)     Increase peaking capacity and improve load following capability and
power quality in the Zhejiang power system. The construction of a major
pumped storage power plant, and the implementation of an efficient mechanism
to price its output in the market will be undertaken to achieve this
objective.
Performance will be measured by reduction in the value of lost production due
to rationing in the Zhejiang power system - most of which occur due to a
shortage in peaking capacity. Improvements in load following will be measured
by improvements in the Area Control Error (ACE).
(b)     Improve the operating and investment efficiency in generation by
developing and implementing a competitive generation market in Zhejiang
province. An associated objective is to ensure that the market structure
created can easily transition to wholesale competition. The associated sector
restructuring, regulatory capacity building and removal of transmission
constraints will be undertaken as part of the project to achieve this
objective.
Progress will be monitored by the adherence to an agreed implementation
schedule for: separating and corporatizing generation stations; preparation
of a market code and commencing market operation; and establishing a suitable
oversight mechanism for market and sector regulation at the provincial level.
The efficiency outcomes of the market implementation will be measured by the
reduction in the percentage of capacity contributed by small thermal units.
The potential competitiveness of the generation market will be measured by a
reduction in generation concentration (i.e. the capacity owned/managed by the
largest market participant).
Description
The proposed project consists of the following main components.
Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant
Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant. The development, based on an existing
upper reservoir, consists of: (a) a new lower reservoir impounded by a dam
with a maximum height of 68.3 m, (b) two inclined shafts and tunnels with a
total length of 1270 m to connect the upper and lower reservoirs, (c) an
underground powerhouse with an installed capacity of 4 x 300 MW, (d)
implementation of an environment management plan, (e) implementation of a
resettlement action plan including resettlement of 165 project affected
households, and (f) consulting services to assist in engineering, design,
procurement and construction management
Transmission Reinforcement
Transmission Reinforcement comprises (a) transmission lines (90 km 500 kV
double circuit) and a new substation (1x750 MVA) for connecting the power
- 4 -



plant to the grid, (b) reinforcement of the provincial 500 kV system including
270 km single circuit line, two new substations (2x750 MVA) and extension of
two substations (2x1000 MVA), and (c) upgrading and reinforcement of the
telecommunication and dispatch automation facilities to meet the new
conditions required by operation of the power market in the East China
region.
Implementation of Power Sector Reform Plan including power market design and
implementation, regulatory system design and implementation, corporate
restructuring, tariff studies. FMIS development, Intranet development,
distribution customer services development, generation expansion planning and
consumer tariff structure studies.
Financing
Million US $
IBRD3                    24.0
Local equity             193.1
Local debt               448.2
TOTAL                    965.3
Implementation.  years, from 2000 to 2007
Executing Agency. ZPEPC would be the executing agency of the project. ZPEPC
is an experienced executing agency through three Bank financed projects:
Beilungang Thermal Power Plant I&II (completed and rated satisfactory), and
Zhejiang Power Development Project (ongoing and rated highly satisfactory for
implementation progress and satisfactory for development objectives). ZPEPC
has qualified personnel to undertake project preparation, implementation and
operation. The power market and regulatory system development component would
be executed by ZPEPC in close coordination with East China Electric Power
Group Corporation (ECEPGC) and with oversight from the State Power Corporation
(SP).
Project Coordination. ZPEPC would be responsible for overall coordination of
the Project.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance. The reform elements of the proposed
Project will be supervised by SP. The SP would be responsible for obtaining
State Council approvals on major reform issues. The Ministry of Finance (MOF),
the State Development Planning Commission (SPC) and the State Economic and
Trade Commission (SETC) will supervise Project financing and advise ZPEPC on
all financing matters. The concerned provincial government agencies will
oversee the planning and implementation of resettlement.
Sustainability
There are no significant environmental impacts that could affect
sustainability. Social sustainability is assured by the comprehensive
resettlement plans, the "land for land" rehabilitation strategy, and by the
excellent record of ZPEPC in resettlement.
Financial sustainability is assured by the preinvestment agreements and the
affordability of projected tariffs.
Institutional sustainability is assured by the "ownership" by ZPEPC of its
Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan, and the support for reform
coming from central and provincial governments.
- 5 -



Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. Several lessons
drawn from the previous three Bank financed projects in the province and
completed and on-going power projects in other parts of China and the world
have been incorporated in the project design and in the preparation phases to
date. These are:
Coordination of Bank supported activities for sector reform through economics
and sector work and project lending. In design and preparation for the power
market and regulatory system development component of the project, a close
coordination has been maintained with the IDF financed sector reform study
(which aims at setting up a policy framework for power market development in
China)and the East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project (which includes
a component to develop power trading at the regional level within East China).
The coordinated approach ensures consistency and maximizes the likelihood of
replication of successful reform efforts throughout China.
Efficient procurement management through prequalification and/or staged
bidding. Most procurement problems which have occurred in China over recent
years have been related to the qualification of bidders and offered equipment,
in an environment where fully qualified bidders are continually increasing the
proportion of manufacture by subsidiaries, joint-venture partners and
subcontractors who are not themselves fully qualified. In addition, in
information technology related equipment, fast developing technology results
in difficulties in defining which technology qualifies. To a large extent,
these difficulties can be avoided through prequalification or staged bidding
processes and these have been assumed for the generating unit package for the
Tongbai plant and for IT components.    Another difficulty which has resulted
in delays in power plant equipment installation in China relates to interfaces
between individual suppliers. Procurement packaging has therefore been
designed to reduce the number of packages to the minimum practicable level
while encouraging worldwide competition.    For civil works construction, which
is planned to be carried out by local contractors, experience has been mixed.
Therefore, ZPEPC will also prequalify local contractors.
Need for early government approval of project. In recent power projects there
were delays in project processing stemming from delayed internal Government
approvals. These delays arose from inadequate counterpart funding sources and
delayed approval of feasibility studies etc. In the current case, there is no
shortage of counterpart funds and the approval process for the physical
components of the project are well advanced. However, delays might be
expected because of the recent major re-organization at the central level. A
detailed preparation schedule has been prepared which clearly identifies
Government approval steps, which are invariably on the critical path. ZPEPC
has personnel permanently stationed in Beijing to expedite approval processes.
Adequate resettlement planning, consultation and Monitoring. The numerous
lessons learned in several of the large Chinese reservoir resettlement
projects (Shuikou, Ertan and Daguangba) are being brought to bear in the
limited resettlement associated with Tongbai. The transmission line
resettlement process will continue with the highly successful organization and
procedures developed under the Zhejiang power Development Project.
Poverty Category
This project does not explicitly address poverty alleviation.
- 6 -



Environmental Aspects. The Project has three components. The institutional
component (Power Market and Regulatory System Development) if done separately,
would have been category "C". The Transmission Reinforcement component, if
done separately, would have been categorized as "B". The Tongbai Pumped
Storage Power Plant component is the only part of the Project that requires a
full environmental assessment and is therefore category "A".    However, under
OD 4.01, if any one of the components of a Project is considered "A", the
whole Project is classified as "A".    For this reason, the Tongbai Pumped
Storage Project has been classified as category "A". The Environmental
Assessments for the pumped storage power plant and the transmission lines have
satisfactorily addressed all the major issues likely to be associated with
construction and operation. Resettlement Action Plans meeting Bank
requirements have been prepared for both power plant and transmission lines.
Program Objective Categories
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 23, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



