                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR0000788



               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-45290)




                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$197.5 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR A

                         TONGBAI PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT




                                       June 23, 2008




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
                            Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
           Appraisal                                        Completion
     Effective January 2000                           Effective January 2008

      Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12                                  Y 1.00 = US$0.14
       US$ 1.00 = Y8.28                                  US$ 1.00 = Y 7.25

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 ­ December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DSCR      Debt Service Coverage Ratio
DMS       Distribution Management System
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ECCPM     East China Competitive Power Market
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IERR      Internal Economic Rate of Return
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NDRC      National Development and Reform Commission
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
POE       Panel of Experts
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SERC      State Electricity Regulatory Commission
SFR       Self-financing Ratio
TA        Technical Assistance
T&D       Transmission and Distribution
TOBA      Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Company Limited
TPSP      Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant
ZPM       Zhejiang Power Market
ZPEPC     Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company



               Vice President: James Adams
            Country Director: David R. Dollar
             Sector Manager: Junhui Wu / Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
        Project Team Leader: Jie Tang
           ICR Team Leader: Jie Tang




                                        ii

                                                        China
                                 Tongbai Pumped Storage Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................................13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................................14
 6. Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................................16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................17

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................................18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component...............................................................................................19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..............................................................................22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................229
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................32
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................33

MAP No. IBRD 30534




                                                            ii

A. Basic Information
                                                                      Tongbai Pumped
Country:               China                   Project Name:
                                                                      Storage
Project ID:            P056424                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45290
ICR Date:              02/12/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:              Government of China
Original Total
                       USD 320.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD197,467,044.89
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company (ZPEPC)
Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Co., Ltd. (TOBA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/10/1998     Effectiveness:         03/20/2001      03/20/2001
Appraisal:             07/19/1999     Restructuring(s):         N/A              N/A
Approval:              12/22/1999     Mid-term Review:          N/A              N/A
                                      Closing:               12/31/2007      12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:         Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory




                                              iii

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                                     No                                          N/A
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                                     No                                          N/A
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                              99                 99
Sub-national government administration                              1                  1
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                                    Primary       Not Applicable
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary       Not Applicable
Other financial and private sector development                    Primary       Not Applicable
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                 Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            James Adams                         Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                           Yoshihiko Sumi
Project Team Leader:       Jie Tang                            Berry Trembath/Ranjit Lamech
ICR Team Leader:           Jie Tang
ICR Primary Author:        Ivy H. Cheng, Jie Tang

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project has two objectives: (a) increase peaking capacity and improve load following
capability and power quality in the Zhejiang and East China power systems.                 The
construction of a major pumped storage power plant, and the implementation of an
efficient mechanism to price its output in the market will be undertaken to achieve this
objective; and (b) improve the operating and investment efficiency in generation by
developing and implementing a competitive generation market in Zhejiang province. An
associated objective is to ensure that the market structure created can easily transition to


                                                 iv

wholesale competition. The associated sector restructuring, regulatory capacity building
and removal of transmission constraints will be undertaken as part of the project to
achieve this objective.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from   Revised
                                              approval      Target      Completion or Target

                                             documents)     Values               Years

Indicator 1:    Investment Efficiency: ratio of generation capacity comprising small
                thermal units (<50MW)
Value
quantitative or 1997: 25.8%              4.7%                        10.3%
Qualitative)    2000: 18.4%

Date achieved 1997                        2006                       2006
Comments        Actual reduction in small thermal capacity as of 2006 fell short of the targeted
(incl. %        value (15.5% reduction vs. 21.1% projected). This was largely due to persistent
achievement)    power shortages in Zhejiang.

Indictor 2:     Market Concentration and Competitiveness: % generation capacity
                controlled by the largest market participant
Value
quantitative or 1997: 57% (ZPEPC)        20% (ZPEPC)                 12% (independent power

Qualitative)                                                         generation company)

Date achieved 1997                        2006                       2006

Comments        Market concentration greatly reduced during the project implementation period

(incl. %        as a result of the sector reform whereby generation plants were divested from the

achievement)    original ZPEPC to form separate generation companies. The restructured ZPEPC
                became a grid company.

Indicator 3:    Load Following Capability: increase in peaking capacity and improvement
                in Area Control Error (ACE)
Value
quantitative or 78%                      85%                         96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2006                  12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        ACE target surpassed substantially (18% actual improvement vs. 9% targeted).

achievement)    The stated rate of 85% for 2006 had been met since 1999.

Indicator 4 :  Power market trial operation in Zhejiang
                                                                     Trial operation commenced

Value           Commencement of                                      on 1/ 1/00, operating ratios

quantitative or power market trial                                   were 93% and 99.6% for

Qualitative)    operation in January                                 2001 and 2002 respectively;
                2000.                                                total contracted energy
                                                                     accounted for 80% of sales.



                                                 v

                                       Original Target Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value        Values (from    Revised
                                           approval       Target       Completion or Target

                                         documents)       Values                Years

Date achieved 01/31/2000                                            1/1/2000

Comments       Operation of the provincial power market started ahead of schedule, but was

(incl. %       suspended from the summer of 2003 due to a very tight supply situation. A

achievement)   comprehensive East China regional power market was designed and put into
               operation in May 2004.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

   Indicator       Baseline Value        Original Target    Formally          Actual Value
                                         Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
                                            approval         Target          Completion or
                                          documents)         Values           Target years
 Indicator 1    Pumped storage power plant of 1200 MW in commercial operation
 Value                                  Fourth (final)                    Fourth (final) unit in
 quantitative                           unit in service                   service
 or qualitative
 Date                                   04/30/2006                        12/31/2006
 achieved
 Comments:      All the four units, 1200 MW, was fully commissioned by the end of 2006
 Indicator 2    Reinforced 500 kV transmission system in operation: Length of
                Transmission Line constructed (in circuit-km)
 Value          Project: 0              Project: 299                      Project: 527.8
 quantitative
 or qualitative
 Date           12/31/1997              12/31/2006                        2/28/2004
 achieved
 Comments:      The achieved target value in km is counted as the total length of 500 kV lines
                in single circuit.
 Indicator 3    Reinforced 500 kV transmission system in operation: Transmission
                transformer capacity added (in MVA)
 Value          Project: 0              Project: 350                      Project: 4,250
 quantitative
 or qualitative
 Date           12/31/1997              12/31/2006                        7/31/2004
 achieved
 Comments:
 Indicator 4    Reinforced 500 kV transmission system in operation: Communications
                lines added
 Value          Project: 0              Project: 350       Project: 0     Project: 0
 quantitative
 or qualitative
 Date           12/31/1997              12/31/2006         12/31/2003 12/31/2007
 achieved
 Comments:      ZPEPC decided to use internal resources to fund this subcomponent in 2003.
                Bank financing subsequently canceled.



                                               vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived             DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                          (USD millions)
  1   06/29/2000         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2   12/27/2000         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  3   06/29/2001         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  4   12/27/2001         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.00
  5   06/28/2002         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           15.06
  6   12/27/2002         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           15.45
  7   06/25/2003         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           23.56
  8   11/21/2003         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           47.03
  9   06/24/2004         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           72.91
  10  12/29/2004         Satisfactory      Satisfactory          119.36
  11  03/21/2005         Satisfactory      Satisfactory          134.33
  12  09/16/2005         Satisfactory      Satisfactory          163.68
  13  09/06/2006         Satisfactory      Satisfactory          180.46
  14  09/14/2007         Satisfactory      Satisfactory          191.51

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At project appraisal, the power sector in China was facing many challenges including
impediments to raising financing for large generation and transmission projects;
transmission bottlenecks; inadequate wholesale electricity and transmission pricing
systems; complicated and inappropriate tariff structures; excessively decentralized
distribution operations; unclear corporation relationships between power sector entities;
excessive reliance on coal; and low efficiency of electricity supply and use.

The main elements of the Government's strategy1 to address these issues included
separating    generation     from    transmission     and     distribution    (T&D)      functions
("unbundling"); introducing competition at the generation level and increasing energy
supply efficiency; establishing formal regulatory mechanisms at the central and
provincial levels; clarifying the relationships among power entities at the national,
regional and provincial levels; mitigating the environmental impacts of a coal dominated
power system; rationalizing wholesale and consumer tariffs; developing sound corporate
governance practices; and mainstreaming successful strategies to raise private capital and
providing government backed long-term debt to finance distribution investments.

Zhejiang had a very fragmented distribution sector, with 1,600 township and village level
distribution operations, 66 county level distribution entities and 14 municipal (or
prefectural) power distribution entities. The Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
(ZPEPC) was the main power utility operating in Zhejiang province, with an installed
generating capacity of over 13,000 MW. The main generation source was coal-fired
thermal plants, with hydropower providing less than 10% of the supply. A growing
problem was the difficulty in meeting the wide variation between peak and off-peak
demand, and a substantial amount of additional peak-load type generation plant was
required. The East China region and, in particular, the provinces of Shandong, Shanghai
and Zhejiang had been chosen by the central government to experiment on various
aspects of power sector reform. Zhejiang had been selected to pilot the implementation of
power markets at the provincial level.

The Bank's strategy was to build on progress made and further partner with the
Government in addressing its power sector issues. Specifically, it supported the project
for the following main reasons: (a) the Zhejiang power sector institutions had, for many
years, successfully partnered with the Bank to pilot and implement reforms; (b) the Bank
was in a unique position to bring international experience to bear in power market design;
(c) the development of a competitive generation market would lead to increased use of
more efficient plants: (d) the pumped storage plant would displace inefficient coal units
used for peaking; and (e) due to their cost structure and the prevailing power law in
China, pumped storage and transmission investments were less able to attract private
financing.

1Project Appraisal Document, Tongbai Pumped Storage Project, December 2, 1999, the World Bank




                                                1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project has two objectives: (a) to increase peaking capacity and improve load
following capability and power quality in the Zhejiang and East China power systems.
The construction of a major pumped storage power plant, and the implementation of an
efficient mechanism to price its output in the market would help achieve this objective;
and (b) to improve the operating and investment efficiency in generation by developing
and implementing a competitive generation market in Zhejiang province. An associated
objective is to ensure that the market structure created can easily transition to wholesale
competition.    The associated sector restructuring, regulatory capacity building and
removal of transmission constraints would be undertaken as part of the project to achieve
this objective.

The key indicators for monitoring project outcomes and impacts are: (a) improvements in
load following capability as measured by improvements in the area control error; and (b)
market efficiency as measured by reduction in the percentage of capacity contributed by
small thermal units; and generation market competitiveness potential as measured by the
reduction in generation concentration (i.e. capacity owned/managed by the largest market
participant). Output indicators included implementation milestones established for the
project components.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDOs and the key performance indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified the economy of the Zhejiang Province,
and to a lesser extent that of the East China Region, which had suffered frequent power
shortages, as the direct beneficiaries of the project.        The ZPEPC, the project
implementing agency, was also identified as a direct beneficiary. Sector reform at the
national level was expected to benefit from lessons learned from the project, given the
size and strategic importance of the province. Population in the project areas also stood
to benefit from the incremental job opportunities, demand for local goods and support
services, and increased tax revenues available for public spending.

1.5 Original Components

The project was comprised of three components: (a) construction and operation of the
Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant (TPSP) consisting of upper and lower reservoirs
and an underground powerhouse with an installed capacity of 1,200 MW; (b) 500kV
transmission reinforcement in Zhejiang including transmission lines, substations, and
improvements in associated equipment and management tools; and (c) a technical
assistance (TA) program for power market development and sector restructuring. A more
detailed description of expected and actual project outputs by component is presented in
Annex 2.


                                             2

1.6 Revised Components

The physical components remained relevant and were not revised. However, the TA
component was modified from time to time in response to changes in the operating
environment brought about by the ongoing sector reform. Certain subcomponents no
longer appropriate for ZPEPC's development were dropped while other activities were
added as new needs and issues emerged (refer to Section 2.2 and Annex 2). The
modifications, as endorsed by the Bank's management, did not require approval of the
Board, nor did they impact the project's progress or its ability to meet the PDOs.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

An important element of the power sector reform was the separation of generation from
T&D. As a result of this unbundling process, certain project assets and liabilities were
formally transferred from ZPEPC to the newly established Tongbai Pumped Storage
Power Company Ltd. (TOBA). Consequently, the latter became a discrete implementing
agency of the project.    The Loan and Project Agreements were amended in February
2007 to reflect the new onlending and ownership arrangements. While the changes were
significant from the legal and financial perspectives, the transition had little impact on
project implementation.

The need for Bank loan financing was re-estimated after the main equipment packages
were evaluated and substantial savings in foreign cost expenditure were projected. At the
request of the Borrower, US$100 million of the Bank loan was canceled in October 2003,
reducing the loan amount from US$320 million to US$220 million. Final disbursement
amounted to US$ 197.5 million. The unused balance was cancelled at the end of the
grace period after closing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

At appraisal, the PDOs were in line with the power sector goal stated in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed in May, 1998.            Specifically, the project was
designed to help reduce infrastructure bottlenecks through the expansion of power
facilities, and to target areas where private participation was unlikely due to market
reasons. Government commitment was strong and explicit. Lessons learned from earlier
operations were incorporated into the design of the project, and they include: (a)
coordination of Bank supported activities for sector reform through a combination of
economic and sector work and lending activities; (b) efficient procurement management
through prequalification and/or staged bidding; (c) early government approval of project;
and (d) adequate resettlement planning, consultation and monitoring.

During project preparation, various generation and transmission reinforcement
alternatives were considered, and it was confirmed that the selected physical investments
indeed constituted parts of the least cost solution. Sustainability, realism and complexity
of the selected project design were assessed from the technical, financial (including


                                              3

financial management), environmental, social, institutional and innovative perspectives.
Implementation arrangements were made well in advance.              In particular, adequate
arrangements for financial management during the entire implementation period and the
procurement plan for the first year were made before project approval based on thorough
capacity assessment.    No controversial aspects were identified.        Critical risks were
identified and none was rated higher than modest. Mitigating measures for each were
clearly spelt out.

Preparation of the project involved all major stakeholders, and plans were in place to
keep them engaged during the design and implementation phases. They included the
state power authorities, the provincial and local governments, the communities to be
affected by project construction, and the investors of TOBA. In particular, a participatory
approach involving extensive consultations with the affected communities and their local
governments was adopted in the selection of project sites and in the formulating the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented successfully. Facilities constructed were of high quality,
and final completion was within the appraisal timeframe and cost estimates.
Comparisons of project cost and financing estimated at appraisal and at completion are
provided in Annex 1. Assessment of project outcomes is covered in Section 3 and a
summary of the outputs by component is presented in Annex 2. These achievements
notwithstanding, project implementation, however, did experience a number of setbacks
and adjustments in terms of delays and changes in circumstances.

Implementation Delays.      At the outset, procurement was hindered by a protracted
government clearance process for the prequalification and bidding documents for the
pumped storage plant's main equipment. The lack of an award decision in turn held up
the approval of the feasibility study report by the State Council. In all, it took 15 months
vs 5 months expected at appraisal for the loan to become effective. Later, when the
supplier of the main equipment failed to deliver some key components due to
manufacturing backlogs, site erection was further affected, particularly for the first two
units. Lengthy approval of the transmission component's preliminary design by the State
Development and Planning Commission (currently NDRC), which took eleven months,
also impeded implementation. While much of the delay was beyond the control of the
implementing agencies, they were proactive in minimizing their impact. Through careful
planning and vigilant construction management, they were able to make up for some lost
time, and the project was, by and large, able to adhere to its original completion schedule.

Modification of TA Activities. Implementation of many of the TA and training activities
was challenged by a number of unrelated obstacles, among them, the terrorist attack in
the United States on September 11, 2001, which essentially halted visa issuance to the
country for some time; outbreak of SARS in 2003 which affected international
consultants' travel to China; and tightened control of overseas study tours by the State
Grid Company. The implementing agencies responded by reorganizing some activities,
while reducing the scope or changing the venue of others. The resulting program was


                                             4

deemed adequate in supporting ZPEPC to meet its TA and training needs at the time.
The flexible approach also proved effective in resolving the issues and minimizing their
negative impacts.

Zhejiang Power Market. Zhejiang had been selected by the central government to pilot
the implementation of power markets at the provincial level. Trial operation of the
Zhejiang power market (ZPM) commenced in 2000 as anticipated. However, after
functioning for three and a half years, operation was suspended due to severe and
frequent power supply shortages and load shedding during the summer of 2003. The
development and operation of the ZPM provided valuable experience and lessons for the
development of East China Competitive Power Market (ECCPM), covering Zhejiang
province, which started trial operation in 2004, and the development of other provincial
and/or regional power markets in China.

Project Completion. All four units of TPSP were commissioned by the end of 2006 and
the plant construction was completed by the end of 2007, except for some finishing work.
The work ongoing during the ICR mission included items such as interior finishing in the
machine hall cavern, improvement of office facilities, and landscaping around the
premises. Even though none of the work was expected to affect the operation of the
plant, they would still become part of the company's fixed assets. An estimated US$12.7
million equivalent in local currency expenditure was budgeted for 2008 to bring the
finishing work to closure.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the M&E system focused on regular reporting of implementation progress
and output, as well as feedback on issues and their resolution. Achievement of the PDOs
and implementation milestone were regularly monitored and reported in the periodic
progress reports according to a comprehensive set of quantifiable performance indicators
developed during project preparation and with the assistance of the various stakeholders
(refer to Data Sheet Section F). They were also evaluated against the baseline and target
values. Focus on the PDOs remained throughout the implementation period, however,
generation related indictors were no longer tracked by ZPEPC after its generation assets
were divested (though the company continued to supply information collected from
provincial statistics to the Bank).

To ensure the safety of dams and hydraulic structures of TPSP, an instrumentation system
was installed and became operational: quality assurance procedures were prepared and
followed and regular review by the Panel of Expert (POE) was conducted during project
construction. The POE reviews, dam safety examinations by the group of experts
appointed by the State Electricity Regulatory Commission before and after operation of
TPSP, and the final acceptance confirmed the safety and excellent quality of the dams
and the project. An extensive M&E network was established to support the assessment
of implementation of the agreed RAP. The feedback loop allowed corrective actions in
case of complaints or deviation from the Plan. The regular reports and independent third
party monitoring reinforced the communication amongst stakeholders and ensured



                                             5

smooth implementation. Similarly, implementation of the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) was closely monitored, reported and evaluated.

In addition to following up on the impact and output indicators, financial performance of
the implementing agencies, and their compliance with financial covenants were also
regularly monitored and utilized to assess the financial viability and discipline of the
companies (Section 3.3).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Resettlement: Resettlement for the TPSP component was completed by the end of 2002.
Housing and infrastructure construction for all 146 relocated households were completed.
Compensation was delivered to the affected villages and individuals in accordance with the
approved RAP. According to a sample household survey, average income among relocated
households at the end of 2007 was 53 percent higher than that before the resettlement. At
the time of project completion, the only remaining issue was the rehabilitation and
redistribution of temporarily occupied farmland (about 15.8 hectares). The Tiantai County
Resettlement Office had since consulted and reached agreement with the affected villages
on a detailed plan, and implementation was launched in June 2008.

For the three new substations and two new transmission lines involving land acquisition and
resettlement, all activities including resettlement of 152 households were complete by the
end of 2005. Sample household surveys conducted during implementation, compared
actual scope, compensation and rehabilitation outcomes against the RAP. According to
the third party monitoring conducted in early 2008, compensation paid was either in line
with or higher than those specified in the RAP.

During implementation supervision and at the time of project completion, resettlement
activities had consistently been rated highly satisfactory for its best practice consultation
and participatory process, and compliance with RAPs. The final report currently being
finalized by the independent third party will summarize the lessons learned and factors
contributing to the smooth implementation of the resettlement program.

Environment: During preparation and component design, environmental impact was
fully considered, and the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and EMP were found
satisfactory.   For the TPSP component, the main potential environmental impacts
anticipated included: loss of the Baizhang valley (50ha) by inundation to form the lower
reservoir; disruption of downstream flow regime by release from the lower reservoir; and
short-term impact of the influx of up to 3,800 rural workers during construction. For the
transmission and substation component, particularly attention was paid to the location of
the substations and alignment of the transmission lines.        Impact involved some tree
cutting and vegetation clearing, electromagnetic radiation and corona noise; and the
construction of some 38 km of access roads, mostly through mountainous areas.

A framework including environmental management and supervision organizational setup,
monitoring approach and methodology, and institutional strengthening and training was
established to ensure smooth implementation and quality performance. Considerable


                                               6

efforts were made to follow fully the EMP, and to mitigate and monitor the project's
impact.   Effective measures were taken promptly to ensure that all environmental
indicators were within acceptable levels at all times. Based on the monitoring results, air,
noise, water pollution were well controlled and fully met the relevant national
environmental standards and certification requirements. With the completion of the major
construction activities, efforts were made for further improvements.

Towards the end of project implementation, a Water and Soil Conservation Plan was
formulated and implemented at the TPSP site. The main features of the Plan included
slope protection and greening work; rehabilitation of temporarily occupied lands;
assessment of the access roads and resettlement areas; and disposal of surplus excavated
materials in spoiled areas. Monthly monitoring started in May 2003, and based on the
results and soil erosion status, the outcome of the water and soil conservation works was
found to be highly satisfactory.

Public consultation and information disclosure was a continuous process during the entire
project cycle.    Total expenditure on environment protection and water and soil
conservation was about Y55 million or one percent of the total project cost.            No
unforeseen problem arose at any time.

Procurement: The project procurement packages covered civil works, electrical and
mechanical equipment, erection and installation, and consulting services. These activities
were effectively organized and carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The
implementing agencies were effective in following the procurement process to overcome
issues such as delays in the procurement and delivery of the main equipment, and
incompatibility of the various modules under the complex distribution management
system (refer to Annex 2). The Bank's oversight and close involvement in all phases
helped in ensuring the transparency and effectiveness of the process, and contributed to
the owners' ability to procure high quality goods and services at very competitive prices.

Financial Management: Both ZPEPC and TOBA maintained dedicated accounts for the
project and prepared their respective computerized project and corporate financial
statements on a monthly basis. Annual audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time,
and no significant issues were identified.        Financial management supervision and
selected post reviews of project accounts, documentations, and internal control
procedures confirmed that management of the project funds was sound and adequate.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant.         All four generation units have been in successful
commercial operation since the end of 2006. Sound and comprehensive preparations for
operation were launched well in advance. As early as 2002, on-the-job training in three
domestic pumped storage power plants (including the Bank-financed Tianhuangping
plant), and overseas study tours were arranged for plant operation staff. They also took
part in the various design, procurement and testing activities during project construction
to familiarize themselves with all facets of operation and maintenance (O&M). By 2005,
a full team of qualified operators was on board. In parallel, preparation of the O&M


                                             7

codes, an equipment denomination system, and operational procedures for the power
plant and reservoirs was completed. They were cleared by the project designers and the
East China Power Grid and put in place. As an added measure an experienced team from
an operational pumped storage plant in Zhejiang was contracted to lead the O&M for the
first three years (2006-2008) and further train the operational staff of TPSP. Thereafter,
the TOBA team is expected to fully take over the O&M of all the TPSP facilities.

ZPEPC Transmission. The majority of substations and transmission lines erected under
the project have been in commercial operation since 2004. As a provincial grid company,
ZPEPC has a large number of operational assets and standard procedures for O&M are
well established. Until the unprecedented winter storm of early 2008 (which was highly
unusual in the east and south of China), all facilities had been functioning smoothly.
During the severe snow storm, a lot of transmission lines and towers including those
connecting the TPSP to the grid were damaged, and many collapsed under the
tremendous weight of snow and ice buildup (for instance, some high voltage lines had
over six cm radius of ice around them, when they were designed to withstand a maximum
buildup of two cm). Repair work started as soon as conditions allowed and was carried
out expeditiously. All lines and towers had been restored to full capacity by March 2008.
Lessons learned will likely affect future network design standards.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's PDOs are directly linked to three of the five themes stated in the 2006
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with China: (a) managing resource scarcity and
environmental challenges; (b) financing sustained and efficient growth; and (c)
improving public and market institutions. The PDOs were consistent with China's
development priorities at the time of appraisal, and remained relevant at the time of
project completion. Design of the physical components and their associated TA and
training was proved effective in achieving the PDOs. As sector restructuring progressed
during project implementation, flexibility in adjusting the design and content of some of
the reform related activities, including the operation of a provincial power market, to
accommodate evolving circumstances and needs ensured achievement of PDOs. At the
time of project completion, all components remained important to meeting the
development objectives of China, the Bank, and the project. They were also consistent
with the Bank's prevailing social and environmental safeguard policies and fiduciary
requirements.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project substantially met both PDOs established at project preparation. Specifically,

(a) Increase peaking capacity and improve load following capability and power quality in
the Zhejiang and East China power systems.




                                             8

The TPSP added 1,200 MW of peaking capacity to the system and the plant had been in
successful commercial operation since 2006. Efficiency tests on one of the units in 2007
yielded results that surpassed the guaranteed levels, and the frequency of minor
incidences (twice during the first year) was considered remarkable relative to standards
established for the East China region. Area control error improved from 78 percent in
1998 to 96 percent at the end of 2006, and the results compared well with the appraisal
target of 85 percent.

The transmission component added 4,250 MVA of 500kV transmission capacity and
about 528 km of 500kV transmission lines to the Zhejiang power grid. These were
significant increases during 2000 to 2006, as additions outside of the project only totaled
about 2,800 MVA and 3,200 km. While supply disruptions remained (reliability at 99.9
percent), the augmentation and new practices and efficiency improvement resulting from
the various TA activities greatly improved the system's reliability, and its ability to meet
fast growing demand and customer satisfaction (e.g. power consumption doubled in
Wenzhou City between 2004 and 2007). The additional capacity also made maintenance
of the provincial transmission system easier to schedule and implement.

(b) Improve the operating and investment efficiency in generation by developing and
implementing a competitive generation market in Zhejiang province.

The ZPM commenced trial operations on New Year's Day 2000, about one month ahead
of schedule.     Performance improved steadily after initial teething problems were
resolved. By 2001, the operating ratio reached 99.5 percent (363 days) and it further
improved to 99.6 percent in 2002, with 20 percent of the total energy under the spot
market and 80 percent under contracts. However, rapid economic growth resulting in a
surge in electricity demand in 2003 necessitated considerable load shedding.            This
disrupted the functioning of ZPM and operation was suspended during the summer.
Nonetheless, the pioneered operation provided good experience and useful reference to
the power market development in China. With the commencement of the simulation
operation of the ECCPM in May 2004 (under the East China Power Transmission Project
supported by the Bank), generation competition in Zhejiang province became part of the
ECCPM and operation of the ZPM never resumed. Moreover, the ECCPM would
facilitate a wider coverage of generation competition and was more effective than the
provincial one. For the year 2005, power trade within the East China group amounted to
4,745 MW and 23.7 TWh. Regular operation of the ECCPM began in May 2006.

The government objective of the power sector reform at the time of project appraisal
(Section 1.1) was too ambitious, but much less was achieved for various reasons. The
pioneered operation of the ZPM made great contributions to introducing competition in
generation in China, and to improving the operating and investment efficiency in
generation in Zhejiang province.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic Analysis: At appraisal, analysis was carried out to verify that the TPSP was
part of the least cost generation expansion for Zhejiang Province. A cost benefit analysis


                                             9

was also performed using demonstrated willingness to pay (WTP) as a minimum proxy
for economic benefit. The analysis yielded an internal rate of return (IERR) of 16
percent. Using a similar methodology and the same WTP tariff, a re-estimation at
completion yielded an IERR of 21.3 percent. The main reason for the increase was the
lower than expected generation cost. Using the highest peaking tariff of Y0.538/kWh
currently paid to hydro plants as a floor (minimum proxy of the WTP), the IERR would
still be 11.7 percent, at par with the 12% social discount rate established at appraisal.
(Refer to Annex 3 Part A for details)

Cost Comparisons: A comparison of the final and appraised project cost by component is
summarized in Annex 1. As indicated in the Annex, the TPSP component, at US$410.6
million, is at par with the appraisal estimates of US$405.3 million. Suggestions of the
POE on the upper reservoir dam design contributed to reduction of the associated cost.
The transmission reinforcement component, at US$272.8 million, is about 83 percent of
the appraisal estimates of US$329.2 million.          The cost saving is mostly due to
competitive procurement prices. The largest cost variation lies in the power market
development and sector restructuring component, where the appraised cost was US$10
million and actual cost only amounted to US$3.0 million. Contributing factors for the
variance are: (a) NDRC's early decision to approve a reduced budget of US$4.5 million
due to narrowing of ZPEPC's responsibilities after unbundling; (b) changes in TA scope
(refer to Section 2.2); and (c) lower than estimated prices (with TA and training
sometimes included in the various associated equipment contracts).

Financial Analysis: The financial rate of return for the project was not estimated at
appraisal. Instead, financial assessment focused on: (a) tariff profile needed to yield a 12
percent return on equity to TOBA's investors; and (b) the financial viability of ZPEPC
and TOBA.      Performance of the implementing agencies and their compliance with
financial covenants are outlined below and summarized in Annex 3 Part B.

ZPEPC: financial covenants included: (a) self financing ratio (SFR) no less than 30
percent; (b) debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) no less than 1.5 times; (c) submission of
semi-annual financial reports and annual audit reports (refer to Section 2.4 Financial
Management); and (d) annual submission of rolling eight-year financial projections.

All covenants were substantially met, except for the SFRs in 2001 and 2003, which were
23 and 22 percent respectively. Contributing factors for the non-compliance were: (a)
extraordinarily large capital investment programs (at times in excess of US$100 million a
year) for rural and urban network rehabilitation and expansion. They were initiated by
the Government as an economic stimulus measure in the wake of the East Asia financial
crisis and continued as necessitated by rapid growth in power demand, and improvement
of system efficiency; (b) substantially higher power purchase prices mainly as a result of
oil and coal price hikes; and (c) after divesting its more profitable generation assets, the
resulting grid company's profit margin plunged. The Bank recognized the nature of this
issue and began the process of considering a waiver of the SFR covenant. While this was
in progress, however, the situation eased and the company's SFR reached 29 percent in
2004. Since then all covenants had been met and ZPEPC had been able to generate



                                            10

adequate revenue to continue to operate and expand. According to the latest projections
(2008-12), the company, with a moderating capital investment program, is expected to
remain financially viable and meet all the financial covenants in the foreseeable future,
with SFR at well over 50 percent and DSCR between 2.3 and 3.6 times.

TOBA: At appraisal, unbundling was anticipated and the TPSP was expected to be
incorporated into an independent limited liability company prior to commencement of
operation.     As envisioned, TOBA was established in 2000 with seven corporate
shareholders; the ownership of each was proportional to the size of its equity
contributions and claim to TPSP's power production. While the company continued to
operate normally, as a direct consequence of sector restructuring, its shareholding
arrangement underwent several major revisions. The changes, however, did not affect
TOBA's financial performance or management, and the principle of financing through
equity contribution, at 20 percent of the physical cost of the pumped storage plant,
remained unchanged.

During preparation, a two-part tariff was envisaged, covering capacity and energy, which
would allow TOBA to meet its financial obligations and provide its investors with a 12
percent return on equity. A tariff proposal according to these principles was submitted to
the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) for approval in 2005. In
parallel the NDRC and the State Grid Company (SGC) had mobilized a team to study the
tariff level for the TPSP as a pilot for 11 pumped storage plants about to be
commissioned at the time. A uniform decision for the plants to operate under leasing
arrangements with SGC was announced in 2007. For TOBA, the lease amounted to a
maximum possible compensation of Y484 million per year. At this rate, it was estimated
that all O&M costs (without having to pay for power used) would be covered. However,
it would fall short of the investors' expected return on equity as projected at appraisal.
This arrangement was accepted, albeit not wholeheartedly, by TOBA's management and
Board.

After amendment of the Loan and Project Agreements in 2007 to include TOBA as a
formal implementing agency, the following covenants were introduced: (a) DSCR not
less than 1.3 times for 2007 and 2008, and 1.5 times for 2009 and thereafter; (b)
submission of financial and audit reports; and (c) annual submission of rolling eight-year
financial projections. At the time of project completion, all covenants had been met, and
TOBA was expected to continue to meet them in the foreseeable future.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The PDOs remained relevant to China despite a rapidly changing power sector, and are
consistent with the latest CPS. In a dynamic operating environment where parallel
development and reform in the power sector (such as the operation of the East China
Competitive Power Market) facilitate change and piloting, the project, by and large,
achieved the outcomes envisaged at appraisal. At closing these development results were
highly likely to be sustained. The project had been carried out efficiently and both


                                            11

implementing agencies are expected to continue to operate efficiently as attested by the
economic and financial analyses. Overall outcome is therefore rated satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project did not have an explicit poverty reduction theme. However, its support to
continued high economic growth in Zhejiang contributed to decreased poverty and
increased development opportunities.     The estimated tax revenue increase of about
US$1.0 million per year makes resources available for supporting more social programs.
The extensive construction activities and support services during implementation and
operation also provided job opportunities for laborers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was a key element of the Bank's overall effort to support China in the
ongoing restructuring of the power sector. With the separation of generation assets from
grid ownership and trial operation of the provincial power market, the reform process
gained momentum. At the time of project completion, market concentration within the
Zhejiang power system had dropped considerably, and the province had contributed to
the development of the East China regional competitive power market and had become
part of that market.

At the entity level, through TA, training, study tours, and interaction with high caliber
consultants, suppliers, and host institutions, the implementing agencies' capacity to
coordinate and manage complex tasks and issues was greatly enhanced. The TPSP
implementation experience had generated much interest within the power industry in
China. In response to demand, TOBA organized a conference on site to share its know-
how and lessons learned in 2004. Since then, the company has received numerous
visitors from fellow organizations, with whom they shared project information freely.
Similarly, various reports prepared for and by ZPEPC under the project were
disseminated in Zhejiang for the benefit of other power sector institutions.

A noteworthy element of the project that is expected to have significant longer-term
impact on power sector institutions is the master's degree program conducted under
ZPEPC's training component. In 2001, 108 promising young professionals were selected
from the pre-unbundled ZPEPC to pursue master's degrees in power sector management
and engineering. Education included domestic classroom lectures and study abroad,
followed by dissertation and defense. As of project completion, a total of 87 advance
degrees (47 in engineering and 40 MBAs) had been awarded (refer to Annex 2). Many of
the graduates had since been promoted to key leadership positions in the Zhejiang and
State Power Grid system. The group is believed to have contributed to the overall strong
performance of the Zhejiang power industry, particularly in the areas of safety,
production, innovation and technological development. The success of this program also
appeared to have stimulated strong interests in replication (as in the Tianjin Municipality
and Henan Province).


                                            12

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The TPSP was built to complement base-load and other peaking power plants in the
system. Besides this primary function, because of its ability to start production readily
(within15 minutes), the plant is also being used as a backup source of power supply
during non-peak hours. This function is highly valued by the regional grid, especially
during unexpected system interruptions.

The project had fulfilled a number of piloting and demonstration functions. Besides the
project's adaptation of the pumped storage concept and technology, the Zhejiang power
system was selected to pilot T&D tariff reform, condition based management (CBM),
competitive power market and comprehensive distribution management system (DMS).
As recently as 2005, the DMS, with four functional modules, was considered the most
comprehensive system in the world. With exemplary achievements in civil works,
construction management, O&M, resettlement, TA and training (refer Section 5.2 (b)),
the project also served to raise the bar for quality standards.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

At completion, the TPSP and the transmission facilities built under the project had
already been in production for one to three years (Section 2.5). Main parameters for their
successful operation were not likely to change. The companies are expected to remain
fully staffed and continue to run well. The quality of civil work is excellent, the
instrumentation systems are fully functioning, the emergency preparedness system is in
place, and the risk of dam failures has been under continuous review and was assessed as
minimal at the time of the ICR (the dams were designed to withstand a 200-year flood,
and are expected to remain within safety limits of a 1000-year flood). The transmission
facilities proved to be reliable, efficient and environmentally sound under non-extreme
circumstances. After the severe snow/ice storm of 2008, recovery was well coordinated,
adequately funded and swift (Section 2.5). Ongoing work (interior finishing, exterior
landscaping and rehabilitation of borrowed farmland) to bring the implementation phase
of the TPSP to full closure was expected to be adequately funded and continue without
interruption (refer to Sections 2.2 and 2.4). The lease arrangement for TOBA's power
output, while not measuring up to the two-part tariff envisioned at appraisal, should be
sufficient to cover the full O&M costs, provide for depreciation and debt service,
generate profits acceptable to the investors, and allow compliance with the financial
covenants (refer to Section 3.3).

At the macro level, economic development and government and power sector
commitment to reform remain strong. At the regional and provincial levels, demand for
peaking capacity is expected to continue to grow. After completion of the project,
ZPEPC has steadily added new facilities to augment and strengthen the grid to better
meet the province's energy needs and consumers' demand for more reliable supply. On



                                              13

the institutional capacity front, both ZPEPC and TOBA intend to build on the knowledge
gained from their respective experience and international exposure. With less pressing
funding constraints (in part due to the strengthening of the Chinese currency), and more
opportunities and potential to develop into providers of goods and services (for example,
ZPEPC is poised to bid for a contract under a Bank-financed power project in Vietnam),
use of TA for institutional development is expected to continue.

In view of all the positive internal and external factors, and the absence of major
unmanageable threats, the overall risk that the development outcomes would not be
realized and maintained was considered very low at the time of assessment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As summarized in Sections 1.1 and 2.1, the Bank's support for the project was based on
solid rationale, and the quality at entry it helped ascertain was considered satisfactory.
During preparation, the Bank team assisted the Borrower in designing the project to meet
the Bank's technical, financial, economic, and fiduciary requirements. It also helped
shape the TA and training program to strengthen the institutional capacity of ZPEPC.
Implementation arrangements and M&E were discussed in detailed and agreed in
advance. At appraisal, a competent team was assembled to cover all aspects of the
project. The appraisal coverage was comprehensive, as reflected in the PAD. Working
relationship with the Borrower, based on mutual respect and constructive dialogue, was
collegial at all levels.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Project supervision was planned and carried out biannually. Supervision teams were by
and large appropriately staffed to address and report on implementation issues as they
emerged. Early supervision focused on procurement, particularly with regards to the
main equipment package for TPSP which was on the critical path of implementation.
Subsequent supervision monitored the various technical issues related to construction,
installation, testing and commissioning, quality of work, and kept close tabs on remedial
actions taken by suppliers and contractors. The team also followed the implementation of
the RAP and EMP regularly, and monitored compliance with the Bank's fiduciary and
safeguard policies. On the financial aspects, the supervision teams regularly reviewed the
financial statements and audit reports of the implementing agencies. Discussions also
covered issues such as tariffs, disbursements, financial projections, and appropriateness
of the financial covenants and their compliance.        Supervision reports were generally
realistic, candid, internally consistent, and focused on the PDOs.


                                               14

After the main bids were evaluated, the project cost estimates were revised downwards.
The unit prices used for cost estimation, especially for equipment, were higher than the
bid prices as a result of competitive bidding. The Bank was responsive and supported the
Borrower in processing a partial cancellation of the loan to minimize commitment
charges.     As sector restructuring progressed and ZPEPC's priority changed after
unbundling, the Bank showed flexibility in the deletion of a number of appraised TA
activities that were overtaken by reform events.         It also respected the company's
decisions to fund some of the activities out of its internal resources. As new needs and
issues emerged, the Bank also supported the addition and expansion of some TA
activities as justified and proposed by ZPEPC and TOBA (refer to Annex 2). During
implementation, the Bank team was easily accessible by phone and by correspondence;
the working relationship with the Borrower continued to be harmonious.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As indicated above, ratings for both dimensions are satisfactory. Hence the rating for
overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Central Government: The Ministry of Finance and the National Development and
Reform Commission both supported the design and PDOs of the project, and showed
strong commitment to the power sector reform. Continued government commitment and
support was the key to the success of the sector reform programs, particularly in the
establishment and functioning of the competitive power markets at the provincial and
regional levels. Counterpart funds were timely and readily available. On the other hand,
the government's lengthy review and approval process for the various feasibility study
and preliminary design reports, commencement of construction, and bidding documents
caused significant delays in loan effectiveness and project implementation (Section 2.2).
On balance, however, given the critical support provided by the Central Government
agencies on sector reform, its performance is considered satisfactory.

Zhejiang Provincial and Local Governments: The provincial government was supportive
of the project and its PDOs. Local governments at different project locations actively
participated in the formulation the RAP and EMP.            Their relationship with other
stakeholders involved in the participatory process facilitated coordination. The various
local authorities' support and direct involvement in the implementation of the RAP not
only helped to simplify procedures and improve efficiency, but also enhanced
transparency and governance. Government performance at this level is satisfactory.



                                             15

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

ZPEPC and TOBA were highly committed to achieving the PDOs from the outset. The
staff of both companies worked closely on common issues, as evidenced by the seamless
transfer of responsibilities to TOBA after it was incorporated. Both companies were
proactive in dealing with the startup delays and slow procurement approvals, and achieve
effective results. In the case of TOBA, through concerted efforts, it was able to put the
last generation units into commercial operation within the original timeframe given the
significant delays of procurement and delivery of major equipment. Safety records were
excellent, with no casualty, fire hazard or accident reported. Quality control was good--
of the over nine thousand sample units of work and equipment evaluated, all passed
inspection and over 90 percent received excellent ratings (compared to a national
standard of 85 percent). The quality of work completed by ZPEPC was also well
regarded. For example, the Xiaoshan substation earned at least three prestigious awards
in Zhejiang and nationally. Implementation of the RAP and EMP was efficient and both
resettlement and environmental performance had been continuously rated highly
satisfactory by the Bank supervision missions. Final project cost was well within the
appraisal estimates despite significant depreciation of the US Dollar. Nearly all financial
covenants were met, and both ZPEPC and TOBA were expected to remain financially
viable in the foreseeable future. Transition to regular operation was thoughtfully planned
and completed well in advance.            M&E arrangements were comprehensive and
operational.

Focus on capacity building was apparent. For many consulting contracts, counterpart
teams were put together in ZPEPC and TOBA to maximize the learning and knowledge
transfer. The companies were also generous in sharing what they gained from the
project; TOBA often hosted visitors from out of town, and provided details of its project
experience and knowhow free of charge; ZPEPC not only disseminated its study reports
regularly but also honored its commitments to every single participant of the masters
program, albeit about a third of the class left the company during the unbundling process.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of the Central, provincial and local governments is rated satisfactory while
performance of the two implementing agencies is rated highly satisfactory. Because of
the shortcomings which resulted in significant delays in project startup, over all Borrower
performance is, on balance, rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Power sector reform: The project confirmed that flexibility is paramount in dealing with
a project that is being implemented while a major reform program is in progress.
Commitment and support of government at various levels and strong ownership at the


                                              16

power utility level are key to the success of the sector reform and TA programs. Piloting
has been a feature characteristic of Chinese reform and Bank-assisted power sector
projects.   Project elements explicitly designed to pilot new approaches include:
competitive    provincial   power    market,    comprehensive     DMS,    condition-based
maintenance, and leasing arrangement for a peaking generation plant. This approach,
coupled with flexibility in the use of loan funding for low cost high impact TA, could be
a successful means to further reform and innovations.

Government Approval: Delays in government clearance and approval process resulted in
significant delays of project implementation. Effective re-scheduling and re-organizing
project construction activities by experienced implementing agencies can often catch up
delays during the project implementation and minimize the impacts.

Cost Estimation: Cost estimates proved to be too high and resulted in excessive front-end
fee and commitment charges to the Borrower.            Significant cost savings were also
achieved by a number of other Bank-assisted power project s in China. In-depth review
of project design and unit prices could help reduce unnecessary financing costs.

Engagement of POE: A well experienced POE can play a key role on dam safety, and
can often make suggestions resulting in significant cost savings for dam construction.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A summary of the implementing agencies' input is included in Annex 7. No substantive
issues were raised with regards to the content of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                             17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent2)


                                            Appraisal                Latest Estimates4            Percentage
            Components                      Estimates3                                                 of
                                                               TOBA        ZPEPC        Total      Appraisal
Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant             354.4      405.3        410.6                  410.6        101%
Transmission Reinforcement               282.3      329.2                   272.8       272.8         83%
Power Market Development and
Sector Restructuring                      10.0      10.0                     3.0         3.0          30%

                Total Baseline Cost      646.7      744.5
Physical Contingencies                    45.1
Price Contingencies                       52.8
                 Total Project Costs     744.5      744.5        410.6      275.8       686.4         92%
Interest During Construction             156.4      156.4        19.6        6.9        26.5          17%
Front-end Fee on IBRD Loan                 3.2        3.2        2.24        1.0         3.2         100%
         Total Financing Required        904.1      904.1        432.4      283.6       716.1         79%




(b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)


   Source of Funds             Type of           Appraisal            Latest Estimates            Percentage
                            Cofinancing           Estimates     TOBA       ZPEPC        Total    of Appraisal
IBRD Loan              External Borrowing           320.0        140.0      57.5        197.5         62%
ZPEPC and              Internal Cash and
TOBA Investors         Equity Contribution          176.8        101.5      43.7        145.1         82%

Local Banks            Domestic Borrowing           407.3        191.0      175.0       366.0         90%
                  Total                             904.1        432.4      276.2       708.6         79%




2Converted at exchange rate of USUS$1 = RMB Y8.28. While the exchange rates prevailing at project
appraisal and completion were significantly different, it should be noted that the bulk of project spending
and Bank loan disbursement took place prior to the floating of the RMB. During this period, the exchange
rate between the USD and RMB remained relatively constant.

3Project component costs estimated at appraisal: the first column does not include contingencies, and the
second column includes contingencies. The "percentage of appraisal" column compares values of the latest
estimated total column with values of the second column of appraisal estimates.

4Figures in the tables may not add exactly due to rounding


                                                    18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


         Appraisal Plans                 Actual Accomplishments at the time of ICR and Reasons for
                                                                     Deviation

Component 1: Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant (implementing agency: TOBA)

1 Lower reservoir impounded by a     Civil work for lower reservoir and a dam of 68.3 m in height completed,
  dam with a maximum height of       final inspection conducted and approved in 2007.
  68.3 m
2 Two inclined shafts and tunnels    First shaft/tunnel 1,258 m in length completed in 6/05; second
  totaling 1270 m each to connect    shaft/tunnel 1,256 m in length completed in 6/06. Completion
  upper and lower reservoirs -       postponed to match the time frame of the underground powerhouse.
  completed by 2/04
3 Underground powerhouse of 170m     4 x 300MW units installed. Excavation for powerhouse (size 182.7m x
  x 24m x 54m high; with installed   24.5m x 53m) completed in 6/03; Unit 1 put into commercial operation
  capacity of 4 300MW reversible     in 5/06, Unit 2 in 10/06, and Units 3 and 4 both in 12/06. Initial delays
  pump/turbine units: excavation     mainly due to protracted procurement approval of construction start
  completed by 9/02; and             which in turn relied on the award of the main equipment contract. Main
  commercial operation of the units  equipment contracting and actual delivery 12 months behind appraisal
  ­ Unit 1 by 9/04, Unit 4 by 4/06   schedule due to manufacturing backlog. Difference partially made up
                                     by thorough geological investigation and expedited construction.
4 Implementation of an environment   EMP implemented
  management plan (EMP)
5 Implementation of a resettlement   RAP implemented, 146 households affected
  action plan (RAP) including 65
  affected households
6 Consultant services in             5 contracts implemented for: (a) procurement of main E&M equipment,
  engineering, design, procurement   later expanded to cover 500kV transformers' factory acceptance test in
  and construction management        Europe, and inspection of permanent workshop and other installations;
                                     (b) supervision of main equipment manufacturing, later expanded to
                                     cover P/T vibration issues; (c) Special Board of Consultants comprised
                                     of 2 international and 3 national experts. Some meetings postponed due
                                     to scheduling conflicts and SARS outbreak. All concerns and issues
                                     raised had been complied with; (d) witnessing of Pump/turbine
                                     acceptance test; and (e) training of operators in Asia, N. America and
                                     Europe conducted in 2004. Some reduction in scope due to: (a)
                                     reduction of Phase II construction supervision in view of adequate
                                     domestic capacity and a project management system that had been in
                                     place and worked well for two years; and (b) training carried out under
                                     the main equipment contracts after installation. Implementation largely
                                     completed except one ongoing for special training on equipment
                                     inspection and maintenance.
  Appraisal cost estimate: US$405.3  ICR estimate: US$ 410.58 million
  million

Component 2: Transmission Reinforcement (implementing agency ZPEPC)

1 Erection of 110 km twin 500 kV     750 MVA Zhuji substation put into commercial operation in 2/04;
  lines connecting Tongbai to Zhuji, actual length of 500kV double circuit lines between Tongbai and Zhuji
  and Zhuji substation               96 km, put into commercial operation in 2/05.
2 Construction of two new 500 kV     750 MVA Xiaoshan substation put into commercial operation in 7/04;
  750 MVA substations at Xiaoshan    750 MVA Yongxi substation put into commercial operation in 6/04.
  and Yongxi
3 Expansion of Ningbo and            Ningbo and Wenzhou substation extended by 1,000 MVA each and put
  Wenzhou substations by 1,000       into commercial operation in 7/04 and 5/04 respectively; actual length



                                                19

          Appraisal Plans                 Actual Accomplishments at the time of ICR and Reasons for
                                                                        Deviation
  MVA each, and erection of 275       of 500kV lines between the substations was 265.6 km, single circuit line
  km 500 kV lines between the         put into commercial operation in 1/04 (one line was funded under the
  substations                         project, the other by ZPEPC).
4 Erection of three short 500 kV      All 500kV connections completed and put into commercial operation:
  double circuit lines connecting     (a) Zhuji to Lanting, Jinhua and Pingyao substations totaling 12.2 km,
  Zhuji, Yongxi and Xiaoshan          put into commercial operation between 2/04 and 4/04; (b) Yongxi to
  substations to the system           Beilun power station and Lanting substation totaling 22.2 km put into
                                      commercial operation in 6/04 and 10/04 respectively; (c) Xiaoshan to
                                      Hangdong and Lanting substations totaling 0.7 km put into commercial
                                      operation in 7/04.
5 Supply and installation of          ZPEPC decided to use internal resources to fund this subcomponent in
  associated telecommunication and    2003. Bank financing subsequently canceled.
  dispatch automation equipment
  (EMS): 75 added by 2003 and 350
  added by 2006
6 Implementation of distribution      DMS contract with consultant effective in 8/02 after protracted
  management systems (DMS) in         procurement process (internal review of bid evaluation report at State
  Hangzhou and Ningbo to improve      Planning level took 12 months, review of approval report another 4
  reliability and quality of energy.  months). Implementation substantially delayed due to technical
                                      difficulties in data conversion and compatibility issues. Installation
                                      completed in 12/04. Final acceptance after testing and trail operations
                                      occurred in 11/07, commercial operation at both sites commenced in
                                      1/08.
7 Development of province-wide        ZPEPC used internal resources to join a national program of real time
  customer service centers to         customer service telephone network. Bank financing for sub-
  provide customers with one-stop     component dropped in late 2001. Refer to Component 3.6 for related
  information service.                activities.
  Appraisal cost estimate: US$329.2   ICR estimate: US$272.80 million
  million
Component 3: Power Sector Reform (implementing agency ZPEPC)
1 Implementation of a competitive     The ZPM started trial operation in 2000, by 2002 operation rate was
  power market in Zhejiang (ZPM):     over 99.6%. In 2003, very tight supply entailed considerable load
  commence trial operation by 1/00    shedding and disrupted the functioning of ZPM. The market had been
  and have market code formally       suspended since the summer of 2003. With the simulation operation of
  approved by 12/01                   the East China regional power market commencing in 5/04, operation of
                                      ZPM never resumed.
2 Restructuring of ZPEPC,             ZPEPC was restructured into a grid company. As the power sector
  separating generation from          reform continued and deepened, these three subcomponents were
  transmission, and incorporation of  eventually dropped with the Bank's consent as generation restructuring
  all thermal generation entities as  and regulation were removed from ZPEPC's responsibilities by a State
  limited liability companies by      Council decree, and distribution restructuring would only be carried out
  12/99                               at a later phase. In their stead, new TA needs were identified and added:

3 Consolidation of decentralized and  Power Grid Operation Study ­ the objective was for ZPEPC to learn
  fragmented distribution operation   from the experience of other similar and relevant power grid operations
  into county-level entities, and     to address a number of key issues it was facing. Companies in Japan
  incorporating them into limited     and Korea selected, study including mutual visits completed by 7/05.
  liability companies: 40% by 12/01
  and 100% by 12/03                   ZPEPC IT Lifecycle Management and Software Development Quality
                                      Assurance (QA) Service ­ the TA included development of IT strategy;




                                                  20

          Appraisal Plans                   Actual Accomplishments at the time of ICR and Reasons for
                                                                       Deviation
4 Development and implementation       upgrade of office automation; software QA; and technical and
  of a regulatory framework and        managerial training and knowledge sharing. Work commenced in 4/06
  establishment of a provincial        and completed by the end of 2007.
  authority
                                       Small scale study tours on specific themes including: T&D pricing
                                       (Brazil and Argentina, 8/06) in response to Zhejiang being selected to
                                       pilot a T&D tariff reform; financing and capital management as the
                                       company was investing heavily on grid expansion (Canada, 11/07); and
                                       billing and collection, and financial management (9/07).
5 Implementation of an office          Funded by ZPEPC's own resources as use of Bank funding for this sub-
  automation system and an             component was not approved by the government. However, some of
  enterprise resource planning         the added TA activities described above supported the design and
  system in ZPEPC                      implementation of these systems.
6 Studies dealing with customer        Customer Service Improvement ­ awarded 1/03, diagnosis study report
  relations, generation planning,      submitted in 4/04, training delivered in 9/04, however study tours (to
  retail tariff design, monitoring and France, UK, USA and Japan) not conducted until Nov/Dec 2007,
  maintenance                          mainly due to rigorous control over travel abroad imposed by the State
                                       Power Grid, staff priority conflict due to power shortage crisis and weak
                                       proposals received.

                                       Generation Planning Study ­ contract initiated 10/01, 5 working
                                       sessions with 3 in Hangzhou and 2 in Toronto, completed in 12/04 after
                                       much delay due to a slow start in data gathering and setting up the data
                                       base, and later affected by the SARS outbreak in 2003.

                                       Consumer Tariff Design and Short-term Load Forecast Study ­
                                       effective 6/02, included 2 workshops; consultant's final report
                                       submitted in 2/04, also included subsequent study tours to Spain and the
                                       UK, workshops and short-term load forecast software.

                                       Condition-based maintenance (CBM) ­ investigation report finalized in
                                       4/04, delayed due to difficulties in obtaining visas to the US after 9/11,
                                       report disseminated in Zhejiang in 2005. TA for the development of
                                       procedures and information system largely completed at the end of
                                       2007. Piloting scheduled to start in 2008, 2 sites by March and 10 by
                                       year end using ZPEPC internal resources.
7 Training of ZPEPC staff in           108 promising young professionals selected from ZPEPC (and
  business administration, corporate   generation plants under ZPEPC before unbundling) to pursue master
  governance, monitoring and           degrees in power sector management (58) and engineering (50). The 3-
  maintenance, power station           year full-time program covered all cost of education plus full pay while
  technical and commercial             on leave of absence. Training included domestic classroom lectures at
  operation and management of          Zhejiang University (completed by 5/03), study abroad to Australia
  power market, distribution,          (Engineering) and Europe (MBA) (completed by 12/04), and
  utilities                            dissertation and defense. The original plan to study in the US was
                                       changed due to difficulties in obtaining visas. As of project completion,
                                       a total of 87 nationally recognized advance degrees (47 in engineering
                                       and 40 MBA) had been awarded.
  Appraisal cost estimate: US$10.0     ICR estimate: US$3.0 million.
  million




                                                   21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


                                   Part A. Economic Analysis

All generation alternatives were evaluated at appraisal. At 12% of social discount rate,
pump-storage came out as the least-cost option, followed by 11*100MW gas turbine
units, and then by 2*600 MW coal-fired thermal.          The price of crude oil has since more
than quadrupled leaving gas turbine no longer a viable low-cost alternative. Compared
with 2*600 coal-fired thermal, TOBA remains the lower-cost option. Other parameters,
such as project investments, capacity factor, have all changed along favorable directions
that strengthen TOBA's least-cost position among all alternatives.

Assumption. All assumptions for the analysis are summarized below:



     Assumptions Stayed Same as at Appraisal                    Adjusted Assumptions
  TOBA:                                             TOBA:
       Sale-to-output ratio: 98.5%                      Investment costs and schedule: adjusted to
                                                        actual
  Alternative Gas Turbine:                              Power sale: adjusted to actual for 2006-07
       Installed capacity: 11*100 MW                    and to 2,118 GWh from 2008 onward,
       Investment: 1740 Yuan/kW                         equivalent of about 20% capacity level, up
                                                        from 15%
  Alternative Thermal Coal-Fired Thermal:               Operation cost adjusted from 2.0% of total
       Installed capacity: 2*600 MW coal-fired          investment to actual (less depreciation) for
       units                                            2006-07, and to 170 million Yuan from 2008
       Investment: 5471 Yuan/kW                         onward
       Annual operation and maintenance costs: at
       4.5% of total investment                     Alternative Gas Turbine:
       Coal consumption: based on the differential      Price of crude oil: >US$70 per bbl, more than
       between the alternative thermal and TOBA         quadrupling the initial assumption of US$14
                                                        per bbl
  Other Alternatives:
       Hydropower station                           Alternative Coal-Fired Thermal:
       Nuclear power stations                           Costs of fuel adjusted proportionally to the
                                                        following changes:
  Other Assumptions:                                     o Coal price: from 400 to 500 Yuan/ton
       Power output equivalent ratio between             o Power output adjustments of TOBA
       TOBA and the alternative: 1.05                   Investment and output schedule adjusted to
       Discount rate: 12%                               match TOBA's actual investment and output
                                                        schedule



Economic Internal Rate of Return.            The updated generation cost of TOBA is 55.4
fen/kWh compared with 62.4 fen/kWh at appraisal.                  A detail breakdown of the
components of the cost is summarized below:




                                                  22

                          Appraisal               Actual         Change
                        (Yuan/kWh)         (Yuan/kWh)        (Yuan/kWh)                          Reason for Change

Investment                       0.432             0.289          (0.143)       capacity factor change from 15% to about 20%

O&M                              0.057             0.084           0.027        to reflect actual

Pumping                          0.137             0.171           0.034        coal price increases from 400 to 500 yuan/ton

Total                            0.626             0.554          (0.072)


Following the same method used at appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR)
was re-calculated based on up-to-date demonstrated willingness-to-pay. The current
peaking tariff of 0.538 Yuan/kWh is paid to hydro, and is used as a conservative proxy of
willingness-to-pay. This is about 1/3 lower than the assumption at appraisal which was
set at 0.80 Yuan/kWh, the actual purchase price then paid to combined cycle units
running at 33% capacity factor. Despite a 7.2 fen/kWh saving on generation cost, the
updated EIRR is down from 16.0% at appraisal to 11.72%, on par with the 12% social
discount rate. If the WTP stays at 0.80 Yuan/kWh, EIRR would be 21.27%, 5% higher
than appraisal.

                                                                                    Current WTP                   Appraisal WTP
                                                                                    53.8 fen/kWh                    80 fen/kWh
                                        Pumping                   Power for
           Investment   Operation Cost               Total Costs
  Year                                    Costs                      Sale
          ('000 Yuan)    ('000 Yuan)                ('000 Yuan)                 Revenue      Net Benefit      Revenue       Net Benefit
                                       ('000 Yuan)               ('000 KWh)   ('000 Yuan)    ('000 Yuan)    ('000 Yuan)    ('000 Yuan)

  2001           282,410            -            -        282,410          -             -       (282,410)              -       (282,410)
  2002           277,181            -            -        277,181          -             -       (277,181)              -       (277,181)
  2003           349,559            -            -        349,559          -             -       (349,559)              -       (349,559)
  2004           582,845            -            -        582,845          -             -       (582,845)              -       (582,845)
  2005         1,024,268            -            -      1,024,268          -             -      (1,024,268)             -     (1,024,268)
  2006           700,795       23,000        82,029       805,823     479,000      257,702       (548,121)        383,200       (422,623)
  2007           276,894       164,000      189,060       629,954   1,104,000      593,952         (36,002)       883,200        253,246
  2008            86,500       169,638      362,708       618,845   2,118,000    1,139,484         520,639      1,694,400      1,075,555
  2009                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2010                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2011                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2012                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2013                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2014                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2015                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2016                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2017                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2018                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2019                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2020                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2021                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2022                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2023                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055
  2024                         169,638      362,708       532,345   2,118,000    1,139,484         607,139      1,694,400      1,162,055

 Economic Rate of Return                                                                           11.72%                        21.27%




                                                                 23

Sensitivity Analysis.  At appraisal, five types of risk factors were considered and
simulated to yield a wide range of EIRR. The risk factors include (a) investment, (b)
energy, (c) willingness to pay, (d) construction time, and (e) exchange rate. At project
completion, uncertainties around investment, exchange rate (associated with
investment),as well as construction time have been effectively eliminated, leaving fuel
cost and willingness-to-pay the two remaining uncertainties.

Sensitivity analysis suggests TOBA's EIRR is highly responsive to changes in WTP in
the lower range (from 50 to 80 fen/kWh). With a 10 fen/kWh increase in WTP to 63.5
fen/kWh, TOBA's EIRR will increases to 16%.


                                                     TOBA EIRR Sensitivity to Willingness-to-Pay

                                                  50%
                                                        y = 0.1196x2 + 0.5312x  0.1425
                                                  45%

                                                  40%

                                                  35%

                                                  30%
                                              RR
                                                EI25%

                                                  20%

                                                  15%

                                                  10%

                                                   5%

                                                   0%
                                                     -      0.500      1.000      1.500      2.000   2.500

                                                                 Willingness-to-Pay (yuan/kWh)



TOBA's EIRR will decrease as the price of coal increases. However, this downward
shift may be mitigated by a likely increase in WTP when fuel price increases.


                                                       TOBAEIRR Sensitivity to Coal Price

                                                  20%

                        h 18%
                        Wka/na                    16%

                                                  14%
                              yu
                                3850.             12%

                                                  10%
                                     =
                                      PT           8%
                                        W          6%
                                         @
                                          RRIE     4%

                                                   2%

                                                   0%
                                                      -     200    400       600       800     1,000 1,200

                                                                  Price of Coal (yuan/ton)




                                                                         24

                                Part B. Financial Analysis

Background

1.      At appraisal, the financial viability of ZPEPC, the largest shareholder of TPSP,
owner of the transmission component and overall implementing agency for the project,
were assessed. At the time, as the company was in the process of divesting its generation
assets, the analysis mainly focused on the T&D side of its business. The resulting pro-
forma grid company was found to be highly capitalized (debt/equity ratio at 26/74), with
ample capacity to service its debts even in view of its large investment program.
However, the return on equity was very low (1.7 percent). While it was clear that
without the more profitable generation operation (albeit they only made up about a tenth
of ZPEPC's total fixed assets) the company's financial performance would suffer, the
situation was expected to improve by 1999. Based on a set of assumptions made, the
financial projections for the period 1999-2005 demonstrated that ZPEPC was financially
viable, and was expected to strengthen its financial position over time. To promote
continued prudent financial management, the following financial covenants were agreed:
(a) self financing ratio (SFR) no less than 30 percent; (b) debt service coverage ratio
(DSCR) no less than 1.5 times; (c) submission of semi-annual financial reports and
annual audit reports (refer to Section 2.4 Financial Management); and (d) annual
submission of rolling eight-year financial projections.

2.      The financial viability at the TPSP level was also assessed at appraisal. The
power plant, a joint investment by seven corporate shareholders, was expected to be
established as a limited liability company prior to commencement of operation. As a
whole, the investors were to finance 20 percent of the total financing requirement of the
physical components through equity contributions. Ownership of each investor was
proportional to the size of its equity shares and claim to TPSP's power production.
Financial analysis focused on the future company's financial sustainability and the tariff
profile needed to yield a 12 percent return to the investors' contributions.       It was
determined that a two-part tariff for capacity and energy would be most appropriate for
TOBA to meet its financial obligations. At the prevailing peak-load tariff level, and
under the assumed competitive market condition, it was concluded that the plant would
be financially viable.

ZPEPC

3.      All covenants were substantially met, except for the SFRs in 2001 and 2003,
which were 23 and 22 percent respectively. Contributing factors for the non-compliance
were:    (a) extraordinarily large capital investment programs (at times in excess of
US$100 million a year) for rural and urban network rehabilitation and expansion. They
were initiated by the Government as an economic stimulus measure in the wake of the
East Asia financial crisis, but continued as necessitated by rapid growth in power demand
and improvement of system efficiency; (b) substantially higher power purchase prices
mainly as a result of oil and coal price hikes; and (c) after divesting its more profitable
generation assets, the resulting grid company's profit margin plunged. The Bank



                                             25

recognized the nature of this issue and began the process of considering a waiver of the
SFR covenant.          While this was in progress, however, the situation eased and the
company's SFR reached 29 percent in 2004. Since then all covenants had been met and
ZPEPC had been able to generate adequate revenue to continue to operate and expand.

4.       The latest set of financial projections available at the time of project completion
was for the five year period 2008-2012. Given the rapid growth and dynamic situation in
Zhejiang, it was recognized that it would be difficult to make realistic assumptions
beyond a five to six year time horizon. Key financial indicators of the recent past and
projected period, and the main assumptions used for the financial forecast are
summarized in the following Table A3B.1. The assumptions are considered reasonable.
According to the projections, ZPEPC is expected to continue to expand and remain
financially viable, and all financial covenants are expected to be met in the foreseeable
future.

                     Table A3B.1: ZPEPC's Key Financial Indicators and
     Main Assumptions Used for the Five-year Financial Projections, 2008-2012

                                                                                    Unit: RMB million

                   Indicators                  Actual 2006       Actual 2007       Projected Average
                                                                                      2008-2012
 Energy Sales (GWh)                               153,486           166,228             212,767
 Revenues                                         81,184            94,059              105,631
 Average Tariff including VAT (fen/kWh)            57.6              58.0                 60.3
 Total Operating Costs                            76,648            89.830               99,701
 Operating Income                                  4,109             4,229                5,930
 Financing Charges                                 1,449             1,664                1,923
 Net Income                                        1,161             2,028                3,206
 Internal Sources                                  9,092            10,149               14,181
 Borrowings                                        6,182             7,646                7,040
 Capital Expenditures                             13,003            14,152                8,840
 Loan Amortization                                 3,493             3,095                3,000
 Net Fixed Assets                                 58,424            59,618               69,725
 Equity                                           22,245            22,664               37,845
 Self-financing Ratio (%)                          38%               44%                >100%
 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (Times)                1.8               2.2                  2.9

                                Main Assumptions Used for the Projection
 Sales volume                                Based on 2007 actual, and increase by 8% p.a.
 Inflation rate                              2% p.a.
 Tariffs and purchased power                 Move in the same direction and at the same pace
 Exchange rate                               US$1.00 = RMB Y7.20
 Interest rate, finance charges and
 amortization                                Per loan agreements

 Depreciation                                Weighted average of 8.5% p.a.
 Income tax and other taxes                  Income tax at 25%, others per Government policy

 Capital investment program                  Based on 5-year plan, peaked in 2007 and decrease by 5%-
                                             10% p.a. thereafter




                                                26

TOBA

5.       As envisioned, TOBA was established as a limited liability company at the end of
2000. However, as a direct consequence of the sector restructuring, its shareholding
arrangement underwent several major revisions. A comparison of the original and final
composition of investors and their equity shares is provided in the following Table
A3B.2. The changes did not affect TOBA's financial performance or management, and
the principle of the investors funding 20 percent of the physical cost of the pumped
storage plant through equity contribution remained unchanged.

                      Table A3B.2: TOBA Shareholding Arrangements

                                                                    Equity Shares
 Equity Investors                                           At Appraisal   At Completion
 East China Electric Power Group Company                        10%              -
 ZPEPC                                                          25%              -
 Shanghai Electric Power Company                                17%              -
 Shennen Shareholding Company                                   20%             20%
 Jiangsu International Trust and Investment Company             13%              -
 Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Development Company         10%             23%
 Tiantai Hydropower Development Company                          5%             5%
 Xinyuan Power Investment Company                                 -             52%
                               Total                           100%            100%


6.       After TOBA was formally established, it became the project implementing
agency responsible for the TPSP component. Financial covenants included under the
amended Loan and Project Agreements effective 2007 included: (a) DSCR not less than
1.3 times for 2007 and 2008, and 1.5 times for 2009 and thereafter; (b) submission of
financial and audit reports; and (c) annual submission of rolling eight-year financial
projections.

7.       A two-part tariff proposal according to the principles set out at appraisal was
submitted to NDRC for approval in 2005. In parallel, NDRC and SGC had mobilized a
team to study the tariff level for the TPSP as a pilot for about 11 pumped storage plants
about to be completed at the time. A uniform decision for the plants to operate under
leasing arrangements with SGC was announced in 2007, and it was to become effective
from 2008 on. For TOBA, the lease amounted to a maximum compensation of Y484
million per year, when all operational and supply conditions are fully met. The central
authorities determined that at this rate, all O&M costs (without having to pay for power
used) would be covered, and the return on equity would be adequate. This arrangement
was accepted, albeit not wholeheartedly, by TOBA's management and Board as it fell
short of their return on investment expectations.

8.       The first full year of operation of TPSP was 2007, before the lease decision was
made. As summarized below, revenue level was adequate to cover the full cost of O&M,
depreciation, financing charges, and generate profits. At the time of project completion,
all covenants had been met. The latest set of financial projections prepared at the time of


                                                 27

project completion was for the five year period 2008-2012. Given the static nature of the
capacity tariff under the lease, and the fact that TOBA is a single facility company with
no new capital investments beyond the project, usefulness of the financial projections
was somewhat limited. Nonetheless, the key financial indicators of the recent past and
projected period, and the main assumptions used for the financial forecast are
summarized in the following Table A3B.3. According to the projections, TOBA is
expected to continue to remain financially viable and all financial covenants are expected
to be met in the foreseeable future.

                      Table A3B.3: TOBA's Key Financial Indicators and
      Main Assumptions Used for the Five-year Financial Projections, 2008-2012

                                                                                    Unit: RMB million

                   Indicators                  Actual 2006                       Projected Average
                                                 (partial)      Actual 2007           2008-2012
 Energy Sales (GWh)                                479              1,104                2,118
 Revenues (RMB million)                            123               402                  465
 Total Operating Cost                              123               320                  331
 Financing Charges                                  37                65                   60
 Net Income (RMB million)                          (40)               10                   55
 Internal Sources (RMB million)                    99                322                  350
 Loan Amortization (RMB million)                    -                147                  171
 Debt Service (RMB million)                         37               212                  231
 Debt Service Coverage Ratio                       2.7               1.5                  1.5
 Net Fixed Asset in Service                       2,724             3,256                2,758
 Equity (RMB million)                              800               810                  810
 Rate of Return on Equity (%)                       -                 -                  6.8%
                                Main Assumptions Used for the Projection
                                             Estimated on the basis of designed hours of operation.

 Sales volume                                Output will eventually fluctuate from year to year
                                             depending on system demand. Under the existing lease
                                             arrangement, output does not impact TOBA's revenue
 Power input                                 No payment to draw power from the system
 Revenue                                     Maximum Y484 million, 96% achievement
 Operating cost                              Based on 6-9 hours of operation
 Depreciation                                Weighted average of 5% p.a.
 Interest rate, finance charges and
 amortization                                Per loan agreements

 Income tax                                  Income tax at 25%, others per Government policy




                                                 28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


    1. Task Team members



         Names                    Title              Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Barry Trembath      Principal Power Engineer              Task Team Leader
Ranjit Lamech       Energy Specialist                     Alternate Task Team Leader
Junhui Wu           Power Engineer /                      Transmission
William Lane        Environment Specialist                Natural resources management
Vladislav Vucetic   Power Engineer /                      Pumped storage
Mikio Matsumura     Power Engineer /                      Distribution management
Clifford Garstang   Lawyer
Jianping Zhao       Energy Specialist                     Sector specialist

Chau-Ching Shen     Senior Financial Management
                    Specialist                            Financial Management

Peter Cordukes      Consultant                            Financial analysis
Youxuan Zhu         Consultant                            Resettlement
Dennis Creamer      Consultant                            Hydropower
Lynn Yeargin        Team Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Barry Trembath      Principal Power Engineer        EASTE Previous Task Team Leader
Yuling Zhou         Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSPS Previous Task Team Leader
Jie Tang            Senior Energy Specialist        EASTE Task Team Leader since 9/2007
Ivy H. Cheng        Consultant                      EASCS Financial analysis
Yiren Feng          Environmental Specialist        EASCS Environment
Haixia Li           Financial Management Specialist EAPCO Financial management
Zho Yu              Financial Analyst               LOADM Disbursement
Dawei Yang          Procurement Specialist          EAPCO Procurement
Youxuan Zhu         Consultant                      EAPCO Resettlement
Chunxiang Zhang     Program Assistant               EACCF
Cristina Hernandez  Program Assistant               EASTE




                                            29

   2. Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                 83.36
  FY99                                                                208.11
  FY00                                    16                           48.55
  FY01                                                                  5.70
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                         Total:           16                          345.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                  0.00
  FY99                                                                  0.00
  FY00                                     8                           38.34
  FY01                                    15                          124.15
  FY02                                    13                           77.67
  FY03                                     9                           47.34
  FY04                                     6                           46.14
  FY05                                     6                           43.29
  FY06                                     8                           46.59
  FY07                                     7                           60.70
  FY08                                     2                           26.01
                         Total:          74                          510.23



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

None




                                      30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


In order to meet the urgent need of peaking capacity in the East China Regional Power
Grid, the Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant was selected for construction in the
central area of Zhejiang Province. The project construction was started at the end of
2001. By the end of 2006, four units were commissioned for power supply to the grid.
Experiences and lessons learned during the project construction are worthy of
summarizing for reference in the future.

The Tongbai Pumped Storage Power Plant is located in the Baizhang Village, Qixia
Township, Tiantai County, Zhejiang Province. It is a pumped storage power plant with
daily regulation (reservoir) storage capacity. The Tongbai Pumped Storage Company
Limited was founded on December 27, 2000 for the project construction and operational
management. Presently, the company has 69 employees, including 49 staff members for
project operation and maintenance. The underground powerhouse of the plant is installed
with four vertical-shaft reversible Francis pump/turbine generator units, in a total
capacity of 4 x 300 MW, and can generate 2.118 TWh of electricity annually. The total
investment cost of the project is RMB 4.2 billion Yuan, or at RMB 3,565 Yuan/kW,
including interests and price escalation during the project construction. The World Bank
loan also covered the expansion of 500 KV transmission projects as part of the
establishment of the Zhejiang Provincial Electricity Market, including (i) construction or
expansion of five 500 KV substations, in a total capacity of about 4,000 MVA; (ii)
erection of 640 km of 500 kV transmission lines; and (iii) installation of 380 km of
optical fiber ground wires (OPGW).

The project has met the fast growing demand in Zhejiang Province at the least cost. It has
increased the power supply efficiency through reduction of transmission and distribution
losses, and mitigated environmental impacts associated with the grid expansion. The
construction of the pumped storage power plant and the associated network projects has
(a) increased the peaking capacity in the Zhejiang Provincial and East China Regional
Power Grids, and improved the peaking capability and electricity energy quality; (b)
initiated an electricity generation competitive market in Zhejiang Province; (c) alleviated
the shortage of power supply to load centers due to transmission constraint (not
generation capacity insufficiency); (d) increased the peaking capacity at the least cost to
meet the growing peak load, and made up the disproportion in generation capacity with
excessive base load capacity; (e) provided massive employment opportunities and
increased tax revenues during the project construction and operation period, benefiting
directly the local communities in the project area; and (f) significantly enhanced China's
capacity in technical design, construction and selection of equipment for pumped storage
power plants.

Through the project construction, the borrowers of the pumped storage power plant and
the associated network projects have accumulated a great number of experiences in
project construction management, survey and design, construction scheduling, equipment
procurement, cost control, application of new technologies and workmanship, project



                                             31

financing, preparation for operation, and land acquisition and resettlement. This has made
the borrowers owned unique experience.

The World Bank had made satisfactory contributions throughout the project preparation
and implementation. The World Bank staffs are admirable for their continued support,
respect to policies and procedures, and dedication to the work.




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                            32

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Summary report on implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan for the TPSP
    component

2. Summary report on implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan for the
    Transmission component

3. Summary report on implementation of the Environmental Management Plan

4. Project Completion Report of ZPEPC and TOBA

5. IERR supporting calculations

6. ZPEPC's financial projections and main assumptions

7. TOBA's financial projections and main assumptions

8. Project progress reports

9. Project file containing full records of project preparation, appraisal and supervision
    aide-memoires and reports

10. Project Appraisal Document dated December 2, 1999




                                             33

34

