                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR3009



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-95896)



                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.5 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                    FOR THE

                          FAST TRACK INITIATIVE

                       CATALYTIC FUND PROJECT - 3



                                  March 26, 2014




Human Development Department
Central Asia Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 24, 2014)

                     Currency Unit = Tajikistan Somomi (TJS)
                                 1.00 = US$0.21
                              US$ 1.00 = TJS 4.80

                                    FISCAL YEAR

                              January 1 – December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
ARI      Analysis and Education Sector Reform Project
AKF      Aga Khan Foundation
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCP      Cash Compensation Program
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CfTPD    Center for Textbooks Preparation and Production
CWs      Civil Works
DA       Designated Account
DARF     Department for Accountancy and Financial Reporting
DCC      Department of Capital Construction
DPB      Department of Planning, Budget Implementation and Forecasts in Education
DPL      Development Policy Lending
DPSA     Department of Personnel and Special Affairs
DPGS     Department for Pre-School and General Secondary Education
EC       European Commission
ECD      Early Childhood Development
EMF      Environmental Management Framework
EMIS     Education Management Information System
EMP      Education Modernization Project
EPDF     Education Program Development Fund
ESFCAU   Education Sector Fiduciary Capacity Assessment Update
FTI      Fast Track Initiative
GBAO     Gorno-Badahshan Autonomous Oblast
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ      Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Cooperation Agency)
HMU      Head of Methodological Unit
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFRs     Interim Un-audited Financial Reports
INSET    In-Service Training
ISA      International Standards on Auditing
JCSS     Joint Country Support Strategy
KfW      German Development Bank
LEDG     Local Education Donor Group
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MLSP     Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
MTEF     Mid-Term Expenditure Framework
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NSED     National Strategy for Education Development
OSI      Open Society Institute (Soros Foundation)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCF      Per Capita Financing
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMU      Project Management Unit
POM      Project Operational Manual
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTAs     Parents-Teachers Associations
QLP      Quality and Learning Project
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RED      Rayon Education Department
RIITT    Republican Institute for In-Service Teacher Training
RMTC     Republic Methodological and Training Center
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RRS      Rayons of Republican Subordination
SIL      Specific Investment Lending
SSP      Sector for State Procurement and Provision of Services
TA       Technical Assistance
TRF      Textbook Revolving Fund
TRS      Textbook Rental System
UMR      Unit for Marketing and Resources
UNICEF   United Nations International Children’s Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VET      Vocational Education and Training



                            Vice President: Laura Tuck
                          Country Director: Saroj Kumar Jha
                    Acting Sector Manager: Andrea Guedes
                      Project Team Leader: Saodat Bazarova
                         ICR Team Leader: Sachiko Kataoka
                                TAJIKISTAN
             FAST TRACK INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND PROJECT - 3

                                                     CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
 MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                                    Fast Track Initiative
Country:                    Tajikistan                  Project Name:               Catalytic Fund Grant -
                                                                                    3
Project ID:                 P115343                     L/C/TF Number(s):           TF-95896
ICR Date:                   03/26/2014                  ICR Type:                   Core ICR
                                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:         SIL                         Grantee:
                                                                                    TAJIKISTAN
Original Total
                            USD 13.50M                  Disbursed Amount:           USD 13.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:             USD 13.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 The Ministry of Education (MOE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                           Revised / Actual
      Process                 Date                 Process             Original Date
                                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:            02/11/2009        Effectiveness:             04/16/2010            04/16/2010
                                                                                              03/30/2011
Appraisal:                 08/11/2009        Restructuring(s):                                12/01/2011
                                                                                              05/29/2012
Approval:*                 04/16/2010        Mid-term Review:           01/31/2011            12/09/2011
                                             Closing:                   06/30/2011            06/30/2013
* The Bank approval date was the date when the first GFR was approved. The GPE Board approval date was
November 6, 2009.


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                               Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                            Moderate
Bank Performance:                                       Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                    Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:

                                                        i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                                84                    84
Primary education                                                        1                     1
Public administration- Education                                        15                    15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                       100                   100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck                           Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:            Saroj Kumar Jha                      Motoo Konishi
Sector Manager:              Andrea C. Guedes                     Mamta Murthi
Project Team Leader:         Saodat Bazarova                      Saodat Bazarova
ICR Team Leader:             Sachiko Kataoka
ICR Primary Author:          Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott
                             Jeremie Matthew Amoroso


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To contribute to an increased access to improved learning environments and a more
efficient delivery of quality education services.



                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                           Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target         Completion or
                                            documents)           Values         Target Years
                (Access) Number of students in the targeted schools that have benefited from
Indicator 1 :
                civil works
Value
                                                                             14,720 (in 34
quantitative or 0.00                       13,000
                                                                             completed schools).
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                   06/30/2011                        06/30/2013
                Target exceeded. The FTI-3 Review found that schools and local authorities were
Comments
                pleased with the schools' physical upgrades, and considered improved learning
(incl. %
                environments a key factor for reducing student/teacher absenteeism, esp. in the
achievement)
                cold season
                (Access) Number of students in targeted schools that have benefited from
Indicator 2 :
                furniture
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       50,000                            106,600
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                   06/30/2011                        06/30/2013
Comments        Actual data exceeds revised target due to additional purchase of furniture at the
(incl. %        expense of project savings and more correct calculation of the number of
achievement) beneficiaries taking into account that schools operate in 1.5 shifts.
                (Access) Number of students in targeted schools who have benefited from
Indicator 3 :
                reading materials
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       180,000                           298,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                   06/30/2011                        05/15/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded due to UNICEF's parallel financing.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : (Efficient Delivery) Pupil:stavka ratio in new PCF rayons
Value
                                           Increase of at least
quantitative or 12.9                                                         14.9
                                           one point
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2009                   06/30/2011                        01/01/2013
Comments
                Target exceeded. Baseline data provided for correct date: beginning of the year
(incl. %
                prior to the PCF introduction in the remaining rayons.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : (Efficient delivery) Class size in new PCF rayons
Value                                      Increase of at least
                19.4                                                         20.4
quantitative or                            one point

                                               iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2009                   06/30/2011                         01/01/2013
Comments
                Target achieved. It was higher in 2011 (21.0) and declined in 2013 (20.4) but still
(incl. %
                achieved the target.
achievement)
                (Quality) Number of teachers who received in-class mentoring support during the
Indicator 6 :
                year
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       1,000                              1,100
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                   06/30/2011                         06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded. However, data was not disaggregated by gender.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                            Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of classrooms rehabilitated or constructed
Value
(quantitative     0.00                       200                                 261
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2010                  06/30/2011                         06/30/2013
Comments          Target exceeded. 261 classrooms in 28 schools where classrooms were
(incl. %          rehabilitated/constructed. In 6 schools, only the roof was rehabilitated, not
achievement)      classrooms.
Indicator 2 :     Number of classroom (equivalents) equipped with new furniture
Value
(quantitative     0.00                       1,100                               2,840
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2010                 06/30/2011                        06/30/2013
Comments          Target exceeded. This was due to additional purchase of furniture at the expense
(incl. %          of project savings and more correct calculation of the number of beneficiaries
achievement)      taking into account that schools operate in 1.5 shifts.
Indicator 3 :     Number of schools that received supplementary reading materials
Value
(quantitative     0.00                       700                                 1,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2010                 06/30/2011                          04/30/2013
Comments
                  Target exceeded substantially. Since FTI-3 and UNICEF's parallel financing
(incl. %
                  were complementary, it is not possible to precisely disaggregate the attribution.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     % of FTI-trained directors who successfully master the essentials of the course
Value                                                                         97.1% (FM Module
                  0.00                      90%
(quantitative                                                                 by 4/30/2013)

                                                   iv
or Qualitative)
                                                                             99.7% (PL Module
                                                                             by 6/30/2013)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                    06/30/2011                       06/30/2013
                Targets exceeded. 792 out of 816 directors trained on FM module successfully
Comments        mastered course basics. 148 trainees were female.
(incl. %
achievement) 810 out of 812 directors trained on PL module successfully mastered course
                basics. 140 trainees were female.
                % of FTI-trained methodologists who successfully master the essentials of the
Indicator 5 :
                course
Value
(quantitative   0.00                        90%                              90.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                    06/30/2011                       04/30/2013
                Target achieved.
Comments
(incl. %        253 methodologists (incl. 132 females – 51.2%) and 397 teachers (incl. 296
achievement) females – 74.6% were trained). 228 out of 253 trained methodologists (90.1%)
                and 327 out of 397 trained teachers (82.3%) successfully mastered course basics.
Indicator 6 : Reports are completed and recommendations discussed
                                            Final report is
                                            available including
                                            analyses of
                                            training needs and
Value                                       demands; of                      Final report is
(quantitative   No reports                  training courses;                available and
or Qualitative)                             and of relation                  presented
                                            between
                                            demand/need and
                                            supply, including
                                            recommendations
Date achieved 04/16/2010                    06/30/2011                       06/30/2013
                Target achieved. This indicator focused on monitoring progress in the
Comments
                preparation of analytical reviews designed to enable the development of policy to
(incl. %
                reform in-service training (in conjunction with mentoring) under sub-component
achievement)
                2.3.
                Number of module reports submitted to the Unit for Analysis and Education
Indicator 7 :
                Sector Reform Development
Value
(quantitative   0.00                        9                                9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/16/2010                    06/30/2013                       06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved. Work is completed on all 9 modules
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Reports are completed and recommendations discussed.
Value                                       Report is finalized              Report is finalized
                No reports
(quantitative                               and discussed.                   and discussed

                                               v
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2010                 09/30/2012                       06/30/2013
Comments          Target achieved. This indicator focused on monitoring progress in the
(incl. %          elaboration of policy options to promote attendance and ensure that all children
achievement)      complete basic education under sub-component 3.3
                  Percentage of targeted MOE staff who successfully passed trainings on financial
Indicator 9 :
                  management, procurement procedures, and management.
Value
(quantitative     0.00                        90%                                  100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2010                 06/30/2011                         06/30/2013
Comments          Target exceeded in terms of the successful completion of training. However, a
(incl. %          high turnover among MOE staff to be trained was an issue. Also, due to heavy
achievement)      workload, some staff were unable/unwilling to participate in training.
Indicator 10 :    RIITT facility rehabilitated
Value
                                              RIITT                                100% of works is
(quantitative     Inadequate facility
                                              rehabilitated                        completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/01/2012                  06/29/2013                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     01/08/2011             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.00
  2     12/24/2011             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      4.58
  3     12/01/2012             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      9.74
  4     06/23/2013             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             11.61


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     **Closing Date extension - to
                                                     September 30, 2012
 03/30/2011               S       S           1.00
                                                     **Extension of the date for one
                                                     of the legal covenants
 12/01/2011               S       S           4.09   **Reallocation to Civil Works

                                                    vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions

                                                     **Decreased scope of
                                                     component 3.3

                                                     **Increased DA authorized
                                                     allocation
                                                     **Closing Date extension - to
                                                     June 30,2013

                                                     **Adding rehabilitation and
                                                     equipment of the Republican
  05/29/2012                 S     S          5.74
                                                     Institute for In-service Teacher
                                                     Training (RIITT) into the scope
                                                     of activities, corresponding
                                                     revision of the Supplemental
                                                     Letter




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Tajikistan is a relatively small, low-income, and landlocked country in Central Asia, with
a population of 8 million people. At Project appraisal of the third Fast Track Initiative Catalytic
Fund Grant (FTI-3, the Project) in 2009, the country had a population of 6.8 million, and a per
capita GNI of US$730. Poverty was widespread: 47 percent of the population lived in poverty, of
which 14 percent resided in extreme poverty. Tajikistan experienced a period of severe civil
unrest in the mid-1990s, the result of a civil war soon after its independence in 1991. After the
peace accord in mid-1997, the Government turned its attention to the economic and social
development agenda. Despite major structural and geographic challenges, the country’s economy
had been growing steadily, and the setback in education had been mitigated. The 2007 Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) set the goal of sustainable poverty alleviation along with
maintaining growth and macroeconomic stability. However, the worsening global situation at
appraisal was impacting financing sources available to government and households, posing
additional constraints to growth and development, including education financing and participation.

2.       Tajikistan was one of the first signatories to the Millennium Development and Education
for All goals. The Ministry of Education (MOE) had defined its mission to ensure the effective
and efficient delivery of education services, and access to relevant and quality education for all.
Five education goals were established for the Government of Tajikistan (the Government, GOT),
as defined in its National Development Strategy and PRSP: (a) to improve management and
performance of the education system for the delivery of quality education services; (b) to improve
system effectiveness through decentralization, community participation, and building institutional
and human capacities; (c) to ensure the quality of education services; (d) to ensure equitable
access to basic education and merit-based access to other levels, and (e) to improve the physical
infrastructure, and material and technical aspects of the education system. These goals were the
foundation for the MOE’s National Strategy for Education Development (NSED) 2006-2015
whose Action Plan had been updated and budgeted in 2008.

3.       These goals addressed the main challenges in general education, including the poor state
of school infrastructure; a shortage of adequate furniture and basic equipment; a lack of teaching-
learning materials; and the poor quality of teaching. There was also a persistent lack of attendance
in the final 2-3 years of basic education, impacting vulnerable populations, and was partly due to
household factors. The affected groups include the poor and young females. The impacts of the
global economic crisis were expected to exacerbate those household factors, putting some Tajik
households under increased pressure, reducing their participation in education.

4.       Implementation of the NSED was hindered by a sub-optimal structure, functions, and
work processes within the MOE and its affiliated agencies; a lack of institutional capacities in
strategic planning, policy analysis, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E), combined with
inadequate data to enable evidence-based policy development; a culture of regulation and control
that opposed the strategic vision of creating schools with increased autonomy, and an inadequate
alignment between strategy and policy, and budgets.

5.      The Government and the MOE were committed to their strategic goals and to reforming
the education sector. To improve the strategic and efficient use of resources, the MOE was
piloting policy-based budgeting through the initial stages of a Medium Term Expenditures
Framework (MTEF), and introducing per capita financing (PCF) along with increased school


                                                 1
autonomy. The curriculum was being reformed, and the MOE had established an education
quality control agency, and a National Testing Center was being set up to provide tools to
measure learning outcomes. Sector financing as a percentage of GDP was increasing, and the
education budget as a share of the total budget was almost 20 percent, enabling increases in
teacher salaries and needed capital investments. However, public education spending per student
remained low, both in absolute terms and as a share of GDP per capita. The costing of the NSED
had revealed that internal and external financing for the education sector fell short of the amounts
needed for its implementation, and the economic and financial crisis exacerbated the shortfall,
potentially undermining previous gains in the sector. Donor financial and technical support was
required to ensure that basic education needs were met and reforms of the NSED implemented.

6.       The Rationale for Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund (FTI CF) involvement was strong.
FTI-3 followed on the FTI-CF’s support, agreed at the Beijing donors’ meeting in December
2005, to grant US$18.4 million over two years to Tajikistan to support the initiation and delivery
of the NSED’s Action Plan. The first year funds (FTI-1) of US$9.2 million, were made available
in mid-2006, and fully disbursed by January 31, 2008. The second year funds (FTI-2), also in the
amount of US$9.2 million, were made available in February 2008, and the grant closed in
September 2010. FTI-3 was provided as a bridging fund between FTI cycles to provide continuity
to the satisfactory progress that had been achieved towards expected outcomes under both FTI-1
and FTI-2. As such, the design of FTI-3 entailed what could be considered a programmatic
approach to FTI support for the implementation of the NSED Action Plan. Continued FTI
involvement was justified by the achievements of the past grants, and the persistent need for
external funds to support the implementation of the NSED.

7.       Similar to FTI-1 and FTI-2, FTI-3 was designed and implemented in – and continued to
foster – an environment of effective donor coordination in support of the NSED’s implementation.
Numerous bilateral and multilateral agencies and international non-governmental organizations1
including the FTI and the World Bank, were providing education sector assistance to the GOT
through formal arrangements for donor and MOE coordination. This assistance was within the
framework of NSED and FTI, under a Local Education Donor Group (LEDG), and led to
improved complementarities and more strategic resource allocation.

8.      FTI-3 contributed directly to the MOE’s mission to ensure the effective and efficient
delivery of education services and access to relevant and quality education for all. The Grant was
aligned to the Government’s development goals and the World Bank’s country assistance
objectives of improving the education of the population through increased school completion
rates and improved learning achievements. Hence, FTI-3 would contribute to the higher goal of
improved human development in Tajikistan.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The Project Development Objective was to contribute to an increased access to improved
learning environments and a more efficient delivery of quality education services. The Grant was
designed to alleviate NSED implementation gaps, related to improving the physical infrastructure,


1
  Including the Asian Development Bank, the Aga Khan Foundation, the European Community, GTZ (Gesellschaft fuer
Technische Zusammenarbeit, the German Cooperation Agency), Japan International Cooperation Agency, KfW (the
German Development Bank), the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), and the United States Agency for
International Development.




                                                      2
and material and technical aspects of the education system; to improve the management and
performance of the education system for the delivery of quality education services; and to ensure
the quality of education services.

10.    Progress towards the accomplishment of the Grant’s Development Objective was to be
measured through Key Indicators:
    • Contribution to access would be measured by the number of schools/students benefiting
       from new or rehabilitated learning spaces, and from new school furniture and reading
       materials provided by the Grant.
    • Contribution to efficient delivery would be measured by the pupil:stavka 2 ratio and class
       size. These indicators were expected to reveal improvements in resource use through PCF
       reforms, and the management capacity-building of school directors and PTAs.
    • Contribution to quality would be measured by the number of teachers who received
       mentoring support during the school year.

11.    The Grant’s Results Framework also incorporated several Intermediate Results Indicators,
by component (Annex 2).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.     The Project Development Objectives were not revised. An Intermediate Result Indicator,
“Republican Institute for In-Service Teacher Training (RIITT) facility rehabilitated” was added to
the Project’s Results Framework (Section 1.6).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not specify the Project’s main beneficiaries.
As described in its individual components, and inferred in the PDO, the main beneficiaries were:
(a) approximately 13,000 students in Sugd province and the Rayons of Republican Subordination
(RRS) who would benefit from upgrading physical infrastructure in their schools (selected from
among the poorer rayons that had received limited donor support); (b) approximately 62,800
students in rehabilitated or rebuilt schools who would benefit from new furniture; (c) students in
primary grades of approximately 700 schools who would benefit from reading materials, along
with a teacher’s manual on usage; (d) approximately 900 school directors (preferentially chosen
from the 25 districts scheduled to implement PCF in 2010 and from schools who benefited from
FTI-funded civil works) who would acquire knowledge and skills on pedagogical leadership,
financial management and school administration to improve their management of schools; and (e)
mentors who would acquire the knowledge, skills and resources to provide mentoring support in
approximately 135 schools.




2
  The Stavka—which is a terminology unique to the Former Soviet Union countries—refers to the teaching load. One
stavka may range typically from 18 to 24 hours and may vary across countries. Teachers may teach less or more than
one stavka, which is also usually defined in legislation. Whereas the student-stavka ratio reflects the total teaching load
of teachers accurately, the student-teacher ratio (unless the full-time equivalent teacher is used) reflects the headcount
of teachers whose workload could widely vary.




                                                             3
14.      The Project would also support systemic strengthening and improvements (e.g., teacher
training, PCF, the Educational Management Information System (EMIS), etc.) that would benefit
the sector, management and staff of the MOE and rayon Education Departments, school directors,
teachers, and mentors, among others, and hence improve their ability to leverage the impact of the
Project’s interventions to a broader share of beneficiaries in the future.

1.5 Original Components

15.         The FTI-3 Grant had four components, as described below.

Component 1. Improving the learning environment.

16.     The objective of this component was to increase access to improved learning
environments, thus contributing to the NSED’s fifth goal of improving the physical infrastructure
and material and technical aspects of the education system and , the third goal of ensuring quality
of educational services delivered at all levels3. This component had three sub-components.

            1.1 School Buildings Upgrade (US$7.7 million). 4 This sub-component aimed to
            upgrade the physical infrastructure of schools. It would include the construction or
            rehabilitation of premises for approximately 30 schools in the Sugd province and RRS. 5
            The Grant would also build premises for up to two rayon education departments in light
            of the importance given to decentralized management of education services.

           1.2 School Furniture Supply (US$2.5 million). This sub-component aimed to ensure
           that all new and rehabilitated school buildings were furnished and that furniture shortages
           in other schools were alleviated. It would finance the purchase and distribution of
           furniture for school buildings that were rebuilt or rehabilitated under sub-component 1.1.
           Given the acute shortages of furniture in the education system as a whole, it would also
           finance desks and chairs for students and teachers, blackboards and bookcases for about
           900 already existing classrooms, as well as basic furniture for School Directors in those
           existing schools. Finally, it would finance the supply of two buses to pilot a school bus
           program, if the analysis included under sub-component 3.3 was to recommend its
           implementation.

           1.3 Provision of Reading Materials (US$110,000). This sub-component aimed to
           improve the availability of reading materials for students in primary grades in about one
           quarter of the country’s schools. It would finance the supply of a set of reading materials
           for students in primary grades (grades 1-4) to around 700 schools, along with a teacher’s
           manual on usage. An independent expert group would be established to determine
           technical selection criteria to guide the tender-process and purchase. An expert group




3
    The Project supported general education consisting of grades 1 to 11.

4
  All budget allocations exclude contingencies.
5
  FTI would not finance civil works and furniture in Khatlon and Gorno-Badahshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO); the
KfW had allocated Euro 11 million for school infrastructure in Khatlon, and sufficient funds had been allocated from
the state budget for school construction/rehabilitation in GBAO.




                                                            4
         would also design the teacher’s manual. The Grant would finance international technical
         assistance to support the expert groups in the above tasks.

Component 2. In-service training of pedagogical and managerial personnel.
17.     The objective of this component was to improve in-service training/mentoring systems
for teachers and school directors, thus contributing to the NSED’s third goal of ensuring quality
of educational services and to the second goal of improving the effectiveness of the education
system. It included three sub-components:

         2.1 School Directors Training (US$330,000). This sub-component aimed to ensure that
         approximately 900 School Directors acquired the knowledge and skills to improve their
         management of schools. The Grant would support the training of School Directors on
         pedagogical leadership, financial management, and school administration.

         2.2 Mentoring (US$270,000). This sub-component aimed to ensure that mentors 6
         acquired the knowledge, skills and resources to provide mentoring support to teachers in
         approximately 135 schools. Grant funds would be used to expand and reinforce the
         operation of a mentoring program that began under FTI-2 to ensure that it was integrated
         into the existing systems and made sustainable. They would support:
              • Revision of the mentoring course and its integration into the curriculum of the
                   Republican Institute for In-Service Teacher Training (RIITT).
              • A seven-day refresher training for trainers based primarily at the five regional
                   RIITT centers (three per center) and the Republican Methodological and
                   Training Center (RMTC).
              • The regional RIITT centers to deliver the revised in-service mentoring course to
                   Deputy Directors and Heads of Methodological Units (HMUs) from
                   approximately 135 schools whose teachers had been trained under FTI-2.
              • A two-day visit of methodological support staff from the RMTC, the regional
                   IITTs and the Rayon Education Departments (REDs) to the schools of the
                   Deputy Directors and HMUs who were trained.
              • RED staff to conduct local mentoring workshops for methodologists, Deputy
                   Directors, HMUs and teachers to further promote methodological support to
                   teachers.
         2.3 In-Service Training (INSET) 7 System Review (US$250,000). This sub-component
         aimed to develop policy options for reforming INSET and mentoring of teachers. The
         Grant would support analytical reviews of courses developed and delivered under FTI-1
         and FTI-2. Based on a functional review of in-service training and mentoring delivery
         systems and an in-service training outcomes evaluation supported under FTI-2, the Grant
         would support the development of recommendations for policy options, to guide future
         policy and develop a reform program.

Component 3. Policy reform, research and evaluation.


6
  These were teachers’ mentors who were responsible for building teacher capacities in teaching-learning methods and
reinforcing knowledge and skills acquired during in-service training. Mentors included the Deputy Director of the
school, Heads of Methodological Unites (teachers also based within the school), as well as rayon-level specialists in
mentoring (typically called Methodologists).
7
  The In-Service Training (INSET) refers to the state systems for in-service training and support for teachers and
directors.




                                                          5
18.     This component’s objective was to strengthen national education policy development and
implementation, particularly in PCF, generating the data for decision-making, and promoting
universal completion of basic education, thus contributing to the NSED’s first goal of improving
the management and performance of the education system, and the goal of ensuring equitable
access to basic education. It included three sub-components:

         3.1 Per Capita Financing (US$600,000). This sub-component aimed to continue
         supporting continued development and national introduction of PCF in general education,
         with particular emphasis on the remaining districts moving to the PCF scheme in January
         2010. Support would include the revision of legislation, further elaboration of the PCF
         model, operational support for 24 new districts to initiate PCF, capacity building for
         school accountants and Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) Heads, and knowledge and
         experience sharing between districts and regionally.

         3.2 Education Management Information System (US$210,000). This sub-component
         aimed to enable education data collection for analysis and decision-making through the
         EMIS. Building upon work performed under FTI-1 and FTI-2, the Grant would support
         completion and operationalization of the remaining modules of “School-2” 8. The design
         of the modules would be performed by Grant-financed national technical assistance that
         would also be responsible for training national staff to use the modules. The Grant would
         finance international technical assistance to review EMIS design and operationalization,
         and to make recommendations for its improvement and for implementing the next steps
         of the EMIS Master Plan.

         3.3 Evaluation of Supply- and Demand-Side Schemes to Promote Enrollment and
         Attendance (US$350,000). This sub-component aimed to develop a policy and program
         to ensure that all children completed basic education. The Grant would support M&E of
         three initiatives that included measures to increase enrollment and attendance: a demand-
         side cash compensation program supported by the European Commission (EC), a supply-
         side school meals program supported by the World Food Program (WFP), and a hybrid
         approach outreach project supported by the United Nations International Children’s Fund
         (UNICEF). Based on these evaluations, this sub-component would support the
         elaboration of policy options and their discussion by stakeholders, to enable a policy
         decision by the MOE, followed, if required, by the design and costing of a national
         program. This sub-component would also finance a study of the demands, benefits,
         feasibility and operation of a program.

Component 4. Capacity building and Grant management.

19.     The objective of this component was to strengthen key management and fiduciary
capacities of the MOE and Grant implementers, thus contributing to the NSED’s second goal of
improving the effectiveness of the education system. It would also finance the additional
administrative cost of management of the FTI-3 Grant.




8
  “School-2” was the new modules-based EMIS system for collecting data, establishing a database, and generating
reports on the General Secondary Education system.




                                                         6
        4.1 Fiduciary and Management Capacity Strengthening (US$490,000). This sub-
        component aimed to improve the fiduciary and management capacities of the MOE. The
        Grant would be used to address MOE priorities identified in the functional review. The
        Grant would also finance a mid-term international Advisor to the Analysis and Education
        Sector Reform Development Unit (ARU) to support the MOE in managing those tasks
        and in using data for analysis and decision making on policy options. The Grant would
        also finance an independent operational and financial audit of the Textbook Rental
        System (TRS). The Grant would also finance a thorough review and revisions of the
        NSED and any other analytical exercises required for compliance with future FTI Grant
        applications as well as procurement and financial management training for education
        sector staff.

        4.2 Grant Management (US$300,000). This sub-component aimed to ensure judicious
        and satisfactory implementation of Grant activities. The Grant would finance the hiring
        of the Project Coordinator and consultancy services to support the Project Coordinator
        and Deputy Ministers to manage the Grant. This sub-component would also cover
        incremental operational costs of the Grant’s implementation, communication campaign
        expenses, monitoring compliance with the World Bank’s safeguard policies and the cost
        of the Grant’s financial audit on an annual basis.

1.6 Revised Components

20.     The Grant’s components were not officially revised, but activities were excluded and
included from its original components, as described below. Both amendments were agreed to by
the LEDG.

21.     In the first Level 2 restructuring, approved on December 1, 2011, the scope of
Component 3 (sub-component 3.3) was reduced to eliminate the “Evaluation of Supply- and
Demand-Side Schemes to Promote Enrollment and Attendance” because: (a) more recent data
became available after grant effectiveness showing that enrollment in basic education
substantially exceeded 90 percent in 2009 and had been increasing in recent years; (b) two out of
the three initiatives to be monitored and evaluated had been stopped for different reasons, and (c)
USAID had launched a regional School Dropout Prevention Pilot Program which would overlap
with the purpose of the evaluation supported by the Grant.

22.      In the second Level 2 restructuring, approved on June 5, 2012, financing for the
rehabilitation and refurbishing of the dormitory of the RIITT was included under Component 1
(sub-component 1.1), utilizing cost savings resulting from the successful procurement of civil
works and also from gains from exchange rate fluctuation. The RIITT building had administrative
offices and classrooms for conducting training for education sector employees (district education
specialists, directors and teachers), but all training had been put on hold due to the decayed
building conditions. The addition was seen as supporting the PDO “to contribute to an increase
access to improved learning environments and a more efficient delivery of quality education
services”. The Intermediate Result Indicator, “RIITT facility rehabilitated” was added to the
Project’s Results Framework.

1.7 Other significant changes

23.    The first Level 2 restructuring extended the Grant’s Closing Date from June 30, 2011 to
September 30, 2012 to provide additional time for the GOT to complete initiated activities, and


                                                7
the completion date of the independent operational and financial audit of the TRS (specified in a
dated covenant) from January 31, 2011 to March 31, 2012 to reflect the greater than expected
time required to complete the consultation and discussion process for this activity.

24.      The Level 2 restructuring approved on December 1, 2011 (Section 1.6) also increased the
authorized allocation to the Designated Account from US$1.0 million to US$1.5 million to
accommodate the increased flow of funds required to cover payments for civil works.
Additionally, the restructuring provided for the reallocation of funds under the Category (3),
Unallocated, to Category (1), Goods, Training, Consultants’ Services and Incremental Operating
Costs, including audit under the Project (increased by US$18,000 equivalent), and to Category (2)
Works under Part A of the Project (increased by US$372,000 equivalent).

25.     The Restructuring Paper dated May 23, 2012 (Section 1.6) again extended the Grant’s
Closing Date from September 20, 2012 to June 30, 2013, to allow the GOT to complete then
ongoing activities that required additional time (including civil works under Component 1 that
were stopped for five months due to severe weather conditions), achieve the Development
Objectives and avoid a funding gap between FTI-3 and the proposed GPE-4 that was then under
preparation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

26.     FTI-3, a third year grant in the amount of US$13.5 million, was approved by the GPE
Board on November 6, 2009 and became effective on April 16, 2010. 9 The Project’s
programmatic approach to FTI support for the implementation of the NSED Action Plan not only
took into consideration lessons learned during earlier phases, but more importantly, provided
continuity to adjusted, continuously improved and expanded implementation arrangements
(where applicable), as well as activities and specific components supported under the earlier
phases of FTI support. These efforts to continuously incorporate lessons relied on detailed mid-
term and end-term reviews of both FTI-1 and FTI-2, not only helped to keep implementation on
track, but also fed directly into the design of FTI-3 (and earlier FTI-2). The Project also built
upon the lessons learned and capacities built through implementation of the World Bank-financed
Education Modernization Project 10.

27.      Following FTI-1 and FTI-2, FTI-3 was designed and implemented in – and continued to
foster – an environment of effective donor coordination in support of the NSED’s implementation
(Section 1.1). Funding under FTI-3 was designed for use in coordination with other donor funds,
building upon initiatives funded by them, and more importantly, to build national capacities for
implementation. For example, the training modules on pedagogical leadership, financial
management and school administration to be delivered to school directors under the Project’s
component 2.1 were developed with support from the USAID-funded Quality and Learning
Project. Similarly, for example, UNICEF was to provide funds in support of expanding the




9
  The Bank approval date was April 16, 2010, which was the date when the first GFR was approved.
10
  Tajikistan Education Modernization Project, P069055, Credit No. IDA-37590, IDA H0370 and IDA H5690,
approved May 15, 2003.




                                                     8
coverage of schools that would benefit from reading materials under the Project’s component 1.3
(see Table 1 for a summary of the design of FTI-1 through FTI-3 and its link to NSED).
          Table 1: Summary of the Programmatic Approach adopted by FTI series

  Key areas of                              Key accomplishments                                             Area of
     Support                FTI-1                    FTI-2                     FTI-3                  NSED supported
Civil works        Construction/rehabilit   Construction/rehabilit    Construction/rehabilit    *Goal 5 (improvement of
                   ation of classes,        ation of classrooms       ation of classrooms       physical infrastructure)
                   benefitting students     in schools benefitting    in schools benefitting    *Supports government's
                                            students                  students                  National Investment Program
                                                                                                (2008-2015 and NSED MOE
                                                                                                Action Plan 2009-2013
Textbooks and      Publication of           Publication of            Provision of              Goal 3 (ensuring quality of
teaching-          textbooks                textbooks                 supplementary             education services). Supports
learning                                                              reading materials for     MOE Action Plan to improve
materials                                                             primary grades to         access to teaching-learning
                                                                      approximately 15% of      materials
                                                                      all schools
School             Procurement of           Furniture for             Furniture benefitting     Goal 5 (improvement of
furniture/equip    furniture and            classrooms to benefit     students (higher than     material aspects of education
ment and           equipment for schools    students                  planned 62,800 due to     system). Supports MOE
visual aids        to benefit students                                project savings used      Action Plan to fill gaps in
                                                                      to purchase additional    furniture availability.
                                                                      furniture)
In-service         Training of school       Training of school        Training of school        Goal 3 (ensuring quality
training of        directors                directors                 directors                 educational services). Support
pedagogical and                                                                                 annual MOE programme to
managerial                                                                                      provide training to 20% of
personnel                                                                                       teachers and MOE. Action
                                                                                                Plan to reform INSET system
Capacity           Scaling up of PCF to     Scaling up of PCF to      Scaling up of PCF to      Goal 1 (improve management
building of        additional districts,    additional districts,     final districts not       and performance of education
educational        yielding more            yielding more             included in               system). Supports government
personnel on       efficient and            efficient and             FTI-1 and FTI-2, and      PCF programme and MOE
per-capita         transparent              transparent               consolidating reform      Action Plan
financing          resource use             resource use              nationwide
Fiduciary and      Fiduciary system         Functional Review of      Internationally           Goal 1 (improve management
management         acceptable to the Bank   the MOE;                  facilitated MOE           and performance of education
capacity           was established in the   professional              self-review of MOE        system). Supports MOE
strengthening in   MOE enabling the         development plans for     structure, staffing and   Action Plan to restructure
the system         latter to implement      education staff;          work processes;           MOE and build management
                   externally funded        strengthened fiduciary    management capacity       capacities
                   operations; Fiduciary    capacity in the sector,   building; provision of
                   Capacity                 partial implementation    technical assistance in
                   Strengthening Action     of the Fiduciary          strategic planning,
                   Plan Phase-1 is fully    Capacity                  policy analysis and
                   implemented              Strengthening Action      monitoring; fiduciary
                                            Plan Phase-2              capacity building;
Education                                   Nation-wide               Nation-wide               Goal 1: improve management
Management                                  operationalization        operationalization of     and performance of education
Information                                 of first phase of         second                    system. Supports
System (EMIS)                               EMIS; introduction of      phase of EMIS            government's EMIS Master
                                            second phase;                                       Plan and MOE Action Plan
                                            provision of IT
                                            equipment to rayons,
                                            oblasts and MOE,
                                            along with basic IT
                                            training to relevant
                                            staff at all levels




                                                       9
28.     The Project’s 18-month implementation period was too ambitious. The initial
implementation periods for FTI-1 and FTI-2 were 18-months, respectively, or three years
combined, and both were extended. Despite the lessons from FTI-1 and FTI-2, the team was
informed during the preparation that the implementation period for FTI-3 was also going to be
limited 18-months only. This short implementation presented challenges in terms of defining
what the Project could reasonably accomplish. The transfer of implementation to the MOE—
undoubtedly a positive achievement, but one that would increase the risk to timely
implementation, exacerbated these challenges. In retrospect, it appears that the preparation team
made a conscious decision to design a meaningful project, consistent with the Government’s
goals and the World Bank’s country assistance objectives, possibly anticipating ex-ante the need
for a Closing Date extension.

29.     In view of the above, Project’s Results Framework was well designed, and limited to Key
Development Indicators that could be easily measured and monitored, in line with institutional
capacity, as well as to targets that could reasonably be expected to achieve—albeit with some
“stretch”—during the Grant’s expected 18-month implementation period. Similar to previous FTI
grants, FTI-3 was not designed as a unified project where the components would synchronize to
achieve project development outcomes. Rather, it comprised components that strengthened key
areas of the NSED’s Action Plan where there were significant gaps in the budgeted national and
donor resources, reflecting also the concerns and comparative advantages of the various donors
and the need to provide continuity to activities put in place by earlier FTI grants. The Results
Framework also accounted for FTI-3’s shorter than expected implementation, relative to similar
World Bank-financed projects, in terms of indicators selected and respective targets. As such,
project preparation accepted that the Project’s Key Development Indicators could not be too far
from outputs along the results chain, and identified key outputs that could be interpreted together
with targets as proxies for outcomes. 11

30.       Preparation relied on two reviews of financial management arrangements at the MOE:
first, as part of the Education Sector Fiduciary Assessment in early 2009, and then later during
appraisal of the Project. The Bank had been working with the MOE to progressively build
capacity internally for project financial management, including installation of an automated
accounting system, and development of a project-specific financial management procedures
manual. Nevertheless, the appraisal mission’s financial assessment discovered that the accounting
system was not fully functional. The system did not possess the capacity to generate financial
monitoring reports, and not all accounting staff was fully proficient in using the accounting
software. Delays were experienced in the flow of funds through the treasury system with
consequent delays in settling accounts with contractors, heightening the potential for
implementation delays.




11
   The use of the word “quality” in the FTI-3 PDO led to some consideration in the preparation and review of this ICR.
Based on the Key Indicators selected for measuring progress towards expected outcomes, quality was to be measured
by “the number of teachers who received mentoring support during the school year”, a proxy output indicator that
could be expected to result in the delivery of higher quality education services. The position taken is that “quality” in
the PDO was used as an adjective describing the delivery of services, and not as an objective, per se, since the latter
would require a more appropriate indicator and instruments to measure progress, and obviously a much longer
implementation period during which to monitor, measure and produce results.




                                                          10
31.      FTI funds had been used in coordination with other donor funds to build national
capacities so that national structures were used increasingly for implementation, thereby
increasing their capacity for allocating resources and monitoring their use. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOE had implemented FTI-1, especially since donors did not
consider that the MOE possessed adequate fiduciary and management capacities to implement the
grant. Following intensive capacity building, especially in fiduciary capacity, FTI-2 was
implemented by the PIU and the MOE. The FTI-2 mid-term review found that implementation by
the MOE was satisfactory, and recommended that the MOE should be able to implement FTI-3
fully, provided it was supported by adequate technical assistance to do so effectively and
efficiently. Based on this recommendation, and with support financed under the Grant to
strengthen fiduciary, management and other technical capacities, FTI-3 was implemented wholly
by the MOE. The Minister of Education was the National Coordinator, tasked with overall Grant
management. Daily coordination and oversight of activities were delegated to the Deputy
Ministers and a Grant-financed Projects Coordinator (all of whom reported regularly to the
Minister of Education, and were to be held accountable for progress). Grant funds were allocated
to cover consultancy services to support the Projects Coordinator and Deputy Ministers to
manage the Grant in the following areas: general assistance to the Projects Coordinator;
procurement; financial management; translation and secretarial services, and M&E. Each of FTI-
3’s components was to be implemented by the MOE unit assigned primary responsibility for the
component’s activities. As such, by design, FTI-3 had an implicit objective to build institutional
capacity by entrusting implementation and supervision to the responsible units in MOE,
supported by technical assistance where required to augment capacity, and equally important, to
build MOE capacities by transferring knowledge and skills to MOE staff.

2.2 Implementation

32.      The US$13.5 million Grant for FTI-3 was signed on January 19, 2010, and became
effective on April 16, 2010. The Grant’s Closing Date was extended twice, for a total of two
years, from the original June 30, 2011 Closing Date until June 30, 2013. The Project was rated
Satisfactory for both progress towards achievement of PDO and overall implementation progress
mostly throughout its implementation (despite lower ratings for Financial Management on
occasion). However, overall implementation progress was rated Moderately Satisfactory in the
last ISR because of a risk of not completing all the activities in time; in the end, all activities
completed before the closing date. The following factors affected its implementation (see also
Sections 1.6, 2.3 and 2.4).

33.     Government Commitment. The political stability and consistency in the GOT’s
commitment to the NSED, and consequently, to the Project’s objective contributed to its
successful implementation. This commitment was sustained through a change in leadership at the
MOE halfway through implementation. The change in leadership led to changes in staff of
several departments (that were responsible for implementation), including Department Heads and
technical staff with responsibility for project implementation. The new leadership and staff
required time to understand FTI-3 and the World Bank’s procedures and requirements.

34.      Climate. Severe weather in the winter season 2011-2012 led to work-stoppages at the
time. Then ongoing works were only resumed in Spring 2012, leading to delays. As civil works
represented a large portion of Grant funding, this resulted in disbursement delays, and delays in
overall execution.




                                                11
35.      Cost Savings. Reallocated funds (due to revised components) and cost savings under the
first three components of approximately US$1.5 million, due to more efficient implementation
and to exchange rate fluctuations, allowed the MOE to implement more works, train more
directors, and implement additional activities with available funding (Section 3.2).

36.     Donor Coordination. Donor coordination, through the LEDG, was strong throughout,
providing a supportive environment where the MOE could implement the Project. Technical and
other support was often provided by multiple donors, and the activities they financed were
complementary to the NSED and the Project. Donor support through FTI was instrumental in
mitigating gaps in M&E, and in ensuring that lessons learned through implementation of earlier
phases as well as of FTI-3 were taken into account in implementation.

37.      Staffing. As the PAD noted, staffing at the MOE suffered several constraints. In addition
to capacity constraints, staffing levels were not commensurate with the increased workload that
externally funded operations entail, especially since some departments are understaffed in relation
to their regular workload. This may explain some of FTI-3’s Completion Review findings that the
MOE lost several opportunities to benefit from capacity-building activities. In different capacity-
building workshops high rotation in participating MOE staff existed, and little apparent interest
on the part of staff of MOE departments for the exercise. Overworked staff may find it difficult to
participate in capacity building efforts. Second, staff turnover is relatively high, and salaries are
acknowledged to be inadequate to attract and retain high quality staff. This presents an
exceptional hurdle for any capacity building efforts, to ensure that the institution can benefit from
the improved capacity of staff trained.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

38.      Design. The Project’s Results Framework was well-designed, and built upon the
framework designed for FTI-2 to allow for continuity. The Analysis and Education Sector
Reform Development Unit (ARU) of the MOE was responsible for Grant M&E, and the unit’s
capacity for this would be strengthened through the hiring of a local consultant. Regular reports
on all indicators would be provided to the Projects Coordinator and the Deputy Ministers, as well
as to the relevant lead donor agencies to identify bottlenecks as and when they arose to facilitate
corrections. Donors and the MOE would conduct a mid- and end-term review of the FTI-3 grant,
and third party verification would be hired by the LEDG for components 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 3.1 and 3.2.
An overall evaluation of all three FTI grants would provide input to the design of future FTI
grants, to adjust government strategy and programs and donor support.

39.     ARU also developed mechanisms and instruments for grant M&E that were included in
the Project’s Operations Manual, with special mechanisms for components 1.1 (Civil Works), 2.1
(Directors’ Training) and 2.2 (Training for Mentoring).

40.     Implementation and Utilization. The MOE, through ARU, provided routine reporting
on progress towards indicators in the Project’s Results Framework. The mechanisms for
monitoring specific components were effective: the mechanism to monitor civil works led to
improved record-keeping, while the mechanism to monitor training led to the improvements in
the delivery of training programs (Section 3.2). ARU conducted several exercises to ensure that
the results of monitoring were provided to decision makers: two roundtables to discuss the
performance of civil works and the sites’ record-keeping; two roundtables on Directors’ Training,
covering logistics, participants’ satisfaction and trainer quality; a roundtable on the results of
monitoring the training for mentors, and roundtables to discuss the findings and recommendations



                                                 12
of analytical exercises undertaken under components 2.3 (INSET system review) and 3.3 (bus
program feasibility). Nevertheless, the internal monitoring conducted by MOE Departments was
affected by inadequate financing, especially mid-way through implementation, as the MOE did
not release the totality of funding budgeted for monitoring and supervision of works, PCF, and
EMIS development.

41.     Using funds under the Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) 12, the World Bank
contracted a local non-governmental organization to perform independent third-party verification
of outputs financed by the FTI-1, FTI-2 and FTI-3 grants, focusing on school maintenance,
furniture availability and adherence to contract specifications, availability of teaching-learning
materials, work status of trained education personnel, and the availability and use of information
technology and other equipment. 13 Following a detailed Mid-Term Progress Review of FTI-3
implementation conducted by the LEDG during December 9-16, 2011 (and Implementation
Progress Update in August 2012) 14, it also conducted an Implementation Completion Review of
FTI-3 during October 7-17, 2013. 15

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42.     The Project’s implementation arrangements continued the process initiated under FTI-2
to progressively build capacity within the MOE to rely increasingly on country structures and
systems for implementation of investment programs (Section 2.1). The MOE assumed full
responsibility for decision-making and project implementation with its own staff to the extent
possible rather than relying on the project management unit (PMU), drawing on external technical
assistance to strengthen its capacity where needed, including in fiduciary aspects.

43.       Financial Management. The Project’s financial management risk was considered
Substantial, and the financial management assessment identified a need for additional staff
capacity in the MOE’s accounting department to cope with the expected increase workload from
the FTI-3 Grant (Section 2.1). Specifically, the Grant would finance two local consultants, one
acting as a financial specialist and the other handling disbursement issues, to support the
accounting department during implementation. The financial management arrangements at MOE
were acceptable, but with issues. Audits of financial statements were unqualified, but the 2010
and 2011 audits were delayed significantly, resulting in a downgrading of the Project’s FM
rating. 16 Staffing also affected the financial management function. The MOE did not hire the
consultant to handle disbursement processing until November 2012. Also the financial
management consultant did not train the MOE’s accounting staff properly. When the financial
management consultant departed in June 2012, almost six months passed before a replacement
hired, whilst the MOE struggled to ensure proper financial management and reporting. The result
was an adverse impact on Project implementation. MOE staff faced difficulties in updating


12
   Bank-executed Trust Fund in support to the Recipient-executed FTI CF.
13
   FTI Grant Series Evaluation, Third Part Verification of Works, Goods and Services, reports dated August 15, 2012
and October 31, 2013
14
   Fast Track Initiative – Catalytic Fund Grant, Third Year Allocation, Mid-Term Progress Review and Implementation
Progress Update, dated August 30, 2012.
15
   Fast Track Initiative – Catalytic Fund Grant, Third Year Allocation, Implementation Completion Review Report
dated November 14, 2013. The Implementation Completion Review’s findings have provided most of the
implementation and outcomes information for this Implementation Completion and Results Report.
16
   The MOE had little control on the timing of audits since project audits were contracted as part of a block audit
contracted by the State Investment Committee (SIC).




                                                        13
project budgets (disbursements and commitments) and justifying substantial project savings.
When the new financial management consultant was hired in December 2012, it became clear
that with only six months to Grant closing, slightly more than US$1.5 million in project funds
remained uncommitted. Additionally, two financial supervision visits performed by the World
Bank revealed deficiencies in the application of exchange rates in payments processing, and
payments being made in cash for project-supported trainings.

44.      Procurement. Similarly, the Project’s procurement risk was considered high at appraisal,
especially with regard to the public procurement law that had not been implemented effectively.
Measures, including specific training for MOE procurement staff and contracting of external staff
to work with them, were identified to mitigate this perceived risk. Procurement ratings were
satisfactory throughout implementation. MOE’s procurement unit was fully staffed and counted
on the support of a local procurement consultant, and, despite staff and consultant turnover in
2012, was capable of managing procurement in accordance with agreed procedures throughout.
The Project was implemented in accordance with the agreed procurement plan, with good
coordination between the procurement team and the implementing departments and their
technical specialists, and all planned activities were completed (with additional procurement
packages left shortly before closing to utilize uncommitted funds). Nevertheless, two
procurement reviews conducted ex-post during implementation made minor recommendations
that should be considered in implementing procurement processes and the LEDG Implementation
Completion Review noted that the quality of evaluation reports, terms-of-reference and technical
specifications could be improved.

45.      Safeguards. Regarding the rehabilitation and/or construction of schools and up to two
local educations departments (Component 1), the Project was classified as Category B for
environmental assessment purposes and triggered two of the World Bank’s Safeguard Policies:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). As the
construction sites were only to be identified during implementation, an Environmental
Management Framework, as opposed to a full Environmental Assessment (EA), was prepared,
adopted and disclosed, as required. The Environmental Management Framework (EMF) required,
inter alia, the preparation and consultation of site-specific Environmental Management Plans
(EMP) before the commencement of any works. The MOE had been handling well the
application of environmental safeguards during implementation of FTI-2, with an adequate
system in place to prepare, monitor and document the implementation of Environmental
Management Plans on a rolling basis. The Department of Capital Construction (DCC) of the
MOE was responsible for application of environmental safeguards under the Project. Several
environmental reviews conducted during the process of implementation support concluded that
overall, environmental safeguards were handled well, that DCC managers and staff had a good
understanding of the EMF, EA/EMPs and the environmental risks associated with construction
and demolition civil works. The MOE recruited qualified engineers to supervise the works,
including environmental aspects. Site-specific EMPs were prepared for all investments, and
implementation was well monitored and properly documented by DCC. The Project’s activities
did not result in any Involuntary Resettlement, as detailed in the Bank’s Involuntary Resettlement
Policy (OP 4.12).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.     A subsequent grant, the fourth Global Partnership for Education (GPE-4) of US$16.2
million, was approved by the GPE Board on May 22, 2013. The GPE-4 builds on the three
previous FTI grants. It is designed to mitigate financing gaps in the implementation of the Mid-



                                               14
Term Action Plan of the NSED for the period 2012-2014. While expanding focus into pre-school
education, GPE-4 aims to contribute to improving the learning conditions in preschool and genera
education. Learning conditions include the education program standards and content, teaching-
learning materials and practices, and the physical environment. It will nonetheless continue to
build on the priorities addressed and activities implemented successfully in FTI series of grants
through four main components: (a) increasing access to affordable and quality early childhood
education programs through enhancement of existing and establishment of new early learning
institutions; (b) enhancing the quality of general education through upgrading educational
standards and programs, teacher training, methodological support and provision of teaching and
learning materials; (c) improving child-friendly learning environment through financing the
construction or rehabilitation of schools and provision of furniture; and (d) capacity strengthening
at all levels of the education sector to manage the education system through support to on-going
reforms in education financing and data collection and analysis, as well as provision of training to
pre-school and school directors in financial management and pedagogical leadership.

47.      In addition, with support under FTI-3, the MOE has prepared and secured GOT approval
for its National Strategy for Education and Development of the Republic of Tajikistan Until 2020
(NSED2). NSED2 includes a budgeted Action Plan, and has incorporated LEDG inputs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory

Objectives
Rating: Highly satisfactory

48.      The objectives of the Project, FTI-3, were relevant when it was appraised and continue to
be relevant. They are fully responsive to the GOT’s NSED, since GPE-4 provides continuing
support to assist Tajikistan in meeting MDG-2 and EFA goals, Achieving Universal Primary
Education. Additionally, the objectives are fully compatible with the World Bank’s latest Country
Partnership Strategy Progress Report for Tajikistan, in its focus on human capital development
and its CPS outcome of strengthening the quality of public education.17

Design
Rating: Satisfactory
49.     The Project’s design was relevant, encompassing components and activities that would
strengthen key areas of the NSED’s Action Plan where significant gaps existed in the (budgeted)
national and donor resources, supporting four of the NSED’s five goals. The Project incorporated
lessons learned and experiences from FTI-1 and FTI-2, adjusting implementation and the design
of specific activities to maximize their effectiveness. It also incorporated activities supported by
other donors, building upon them to maximize complementarities. More importantly, the design
and implementation of the Project’s institutional arrangements were extremely relevant in the
progression of the Project from a PMU model of implementation to one of full implementation by
the MOE’s structure. Though the design was probably too ambitious for an 18-month project, the


17
  IBRD, Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for Tajikistan for the Period FY10-13, Report No. 72959-TJ,
dated October 2, 2012.




                                                       15
team probably took an informed risk so that the Project would result in substantial and sustainable
outcomes. This progression was facilitated by the preceding FTI assistance programmes. The
MOE’s structure contracted external technical support to assist in conducting other mandatory
functions including fiduciary operations, and also to transfer knowledge and capacity as defined
in specifically designated contractual obligations in the consultants’ terms-of-reference.

Implementation
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

50.     The Project’s implementation also maintained its continued relevance through timely
project restructuring (Section 1.6). This restructuring eliminated certain activities that were no
longer expected to produce useful inputs. Activities outlined in detailed M&E in the Project
Operations Manual of data-collection instruments and methods, workshops, training programs
and other project activities served as a continuous evaluation of findings and results that provided
feedback into improvement in delivery. However, monitoring of civil works, EMIS, and furniture
delivery were not as effective.

51.       The first disbursement under FTI-3 was made on May 19, 2010 against the first
withdrawal application submitted on May 7, 2010. Overall, the initial disbursement of about USD
1 million was sufficient to support the early activities. Some of the project staff worked for both
FTI-2 and FTI-3 were paid by FTI-2, which somewhat might have contributed to a slow
disbursement of FTI-3. Disbursements started to accelerate only nine months after the
effectiveness, resulting in two extensions of the Project’s Closing Date for a total of 24 months—
first to September 30, 2012 and then to June 30, 2013—partly due to an ambitious project design
for an 18-month project, but partly due to inefficient implementation of some activities and
inefficient management, including high staff turnover and long absence of key project staff.
Primary reasons for the delays in civil works included those beyond the control of project
management: (i) designing took more time than expected to introduce innovations; and (ii) works
needed to be suspended during the unexpectedly severe winter climate.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

52.     The Project achieved its objective satisfactorily. The objective was to contribute to
increased access to improved learning environments and a more efficient delivery of quality
education services, as measured by its Key Development Indicators that were carefully selected to
measure progress (Section 2.1). In fact, it exceeded defined outcome targets in several areas.
Achievements in each of these three areas are described below18.

53.     Access: Explicit in the PDO was the objective of increasing access to improved learning
environments, thus contributing to the NSED’s fifth goal to improve the physical infrastructure
and material and technical aspects of Tajikistan’s education system. FTI-3 achieved
successfully—in fact exceeded—original targets for defined proxy outcomes, as presented in
Table 2.

Table 2: Development Objective Indicators - Access


18
  This section draws heavily from the findings of the Fast Track Initiative – Catalytic Fund Grant, Third Year
Allocation, Implementation Completion Review Report dated November 14, 2013.




                                                          16
Indicator                           Baseline      Target                   Achievement          Comment
Number of Students                  Zero          CWs: 13,000 (est.)       14,720 in 34
benefited from civil works                                                 completed
                                                                           schools
Number of students           Zero                 Furniture: 67,000        106,000              Initial target changed
benefited from furniture                          (est.)                                        to 50,000 at the MTR
Number of students benefited Zero                 Reading Materials:       298,000              Includes FTI-3 and
from reading materials                            180,000 (est.)                                UNICEF contribution

54.     Civil Works. Originally, FTI-3 intended to finance the rehabilitation or construction of 28
schools and 2 RED buildings. By completion, the Grant had financed the rehabilitation or
construction of 34 schools, 3 RED buildings and the RIITT facility in Dushanbe. In total, 261
classrooms were rehabilitated or constructed covering 14,720 students. The FTI-3
Implementation Completion Review (the FTI-3 Review) found generally, the beneficiaries
(schools and local authorities) were pleased with the schools’ physical upgrades, and considered
the improved learning environments as a key factor for reducing students’ and teachers’
absenteeism, especially during the cold season. The FTI-3 Review also discovered that
shortcomings which surfaced under FTI-2 had been addressed, including design innovations,
more detailed drawings, and improvements in the supervision mechanism and supervisory
documentation. As a result, the quality of drawings and building specifications improved, leading
to an improvement in the quality of works. However, the overall quality of building works varied
(from satisfactory to unsatisfactory), to a large extent due to the wavering quality and integrity of
the contractors. Additionally, the FTI-3 Review found that the quality of site supervision could be
improved and was unsatisfactory in some cases; supervision was affected in part by the limited
release of budgeted funds by the MOE.

55.      Furniture. FTI-3 financed furnishing 2,840 classrooms (target of 1,100 classrooms)
benefitting 106,600 students (target of 67,000 students) in all newly constructed and rehabilitated
schools and in other schools that were facing furniture shortages. The third-party verification
(Section 2.3) performed a verification of selected furniture delivered and found that all visited
schools had received furniture and had assigned staff to monitor its usage. Additionally, the third-
party verification discovered that 50 percent of schools considered the quality of furniture higher
than what they had in the received in the past. However, in some cases, overall quality of the
furniture was unsatisfactory: there were deviations from the technical specification in the
contracts (22 percent), affecting mainly the quality of materials, the size of different parts of
furniture, furniture design and the low quality of surfacing. The FTI-3 review recommended and
the MOE agreed to force the contractors to replace unsatisfactory furniture, to revisit standard
furniture specifications, and strengthen furniture acceptance procedures in the next phase, GPE-4.
The government’s Anti-Corruption Agency is currently reviewing FTI-3 outputs. Once Agency’s
findings become available, the Ministry of Education (implementing agency) will follow the
Agency’s instructions and address the issues. The Bank team also plans further technical reviews
of selected sites.

56.     Reading Materials. FTI-3 aimed to improve the availability of reading materials for
students in primary grade in approximately one quarter of the country’s schools. In all, 298,000
students in 1,000 targeted schools 19 (targets of 180,000 students in 700 targeted schools)


19
  The list of beneficiary schools was based on the following criteria: (a) all districts and cities should be represented
proportionate to their population; (b) the schools should have a library; (c) the language of majority instruction should




                                                           17
benefited from reading materials under FTI-3. UNICEF funded procurement of part of the
reading materials, allowing for an increase in originally expected coverage. FTI-3 assisted in
developing a selection criteria for the primary grades reading materials, and their selection,
procurement and supply to beneficiary schools, along with developed teachers’ guides. The
Center for Textbooks Preparation and Distribution (CfTPD) under the MOE and a group of
national experts (from academia, experienced teachers and publication experts), were supported
by international technical assistance to develop selection criteria, develop a rating methodology
and instruments to enable focus groups to rate reading materials provided to them in terms of
suitability for students, choose a selection of potentially suitable reading materials, and
recommend a final list of materials. They also drafted guidance notes for teachers and parents on
how to use the reading materials. Representatives of the LEDG were invited to participate at all
stages of the identification and selection process, and UNICEF, USAID and AKF supported the
process by making technical experts available to assist. Reading materials selected included 12
titles for grade 1, 15 titles for grade 2, 12 titles for grade 3 and 18 titles for grade 4 – for a total of
57 titles. Altogether, 122,000 copies were financed (38,000 by FTI-3 and 84,000 by UNICEF).
The FTI-3 Mid-Term Review visited two beneficiary schools and reported, inter alia, that all
titles were available as distributed, the majority of the materials were in use by the children (and
few remained in the library), materials were found to be in high demand and actually used by
teachers and students, the quality of the materials was found to be good, and the guides for
teachers and parents were found to be useful and practical. Overall, beneficiaries in schools
including school directors, teachers, and students provided positive feedback on the materials.
The third-party verification also confirmed the availability of books in a sample of 39 randomly-
selected beneficiary schools, and made only minor recommendations on issues related to
distribution by REDs to schools, and practices related to registering and stamping the materials as
school property.

57.      Efficiency: Stated in the PDO was the objective of contributing to a more efficient
delivery of education services by strengthening national education policy development and
implementation, particularly in the area of PCF, generating data for decision-making, and
promoting universal completion of basic education, thus contributing to the NSED’s first goal to
improve the management and performance of the education system, and fourth goal to ensure
equitable access to basic education. FTI-3 achieved successfully—in fact exceeded—original
targets for the defined proxy outcomes, as presented in Table 3.

Table 3: Development Objective Indicators – Efficient Delivery
Indicator                     Baseline             Target                            Achievement         Comment
Pupil:stavka ratio in new PCF TBD at beginning     Increase of at                    14.9                Baseline: 12.9
rayons                        of Grant             least one point
Class size in new PCF rayons TBD at beginning      Increase of at                    20.4                Baseline: 19.4;
                              of Grant             least one point                                       Actual: 20.7 (1/2012 )

58.     Per Capita Financing (PCF). Perhaps the main achievement of the series of three FTI
Grants has been the national introduction of PCF in general education. FTI-3 supported the
introduction of PCF scheme in the last group of 24 districts and one city, including a regional
conference on PCF, managing the PCF database and monitoring information, updating the legal-
regulatory framework, enabling the automatic calculation of school budget at the school level,



be Tajik, as all titles were in Tajik language; and (d) all schools that benefited from rehabilitation and/or new
construction under FTI-3 should be included.




                                                            18
training local authorities on PCF, purchasing equipment and furniture for REDs, and conducting
an information and education campaign on PCF. The only scheduled activities that were not fully
implemented related to monitoring as the MOE did not release all budgeted funds for that purpose.

59.      The FTI-3 Review found that schools in the new PCF districts used human resources
more efficiently after the introduction of PCF. The pupil:stavka ratio increased from 12.9 in 2009
to 14.9 in 2013. Similarly, the average class size increased from 19.4 to 20.4 during the same
period. This improvement in efficiency indicators is in line with experience of other districts that
had introduced PCF, especially since the greatest inefficiencies in class size and stavka are easily
addressed in the first year after adoption of PCF. The Review reported that schools welcomed the
PCF reform for the budgetary autonomy conferred, its fairness, and the increase in resources
associated with its introduction. Many schools have been able to improve the quality of the school
environment as a result of increase resources and budgetary control; they expressed satisfaction at
being able to maintain/rehabilitate their schools, and provide additional teaching-learning
resources for their classrooms. Yet, schools, in general, rarely spend the budgeted amount for
non-salary expenditures. In general, schools have sufficient capacity to calculate their budget
under PCF, though they sometimes have difficulty in calculating pricing, and experience
problems with staffing changes – financial management support from the RED is still required.
Reportedly, the reform is also appreciated at the rayon level, although the capacity of districts to
assist schools varies greatly.

60.     However, issues have surfaced in the application of PCF. In 2013, oblasts were granted
authority to redistribute funds between districts, in contradiction to the PCF model. As a result,
36.7 percent of districts did not receive their full budget allocation according to the PCF formula.
Also, while efficiency targets were met in the new PCF districts, the FTI-3 Review found that
national averages of pupil:stavka and pupil:teacher ratios were either stagnant or declining since
2010. This decline is reportedly the result of significant increases in salaries that have not been
matched by increases in non-salary budget items, combined with relatively poorer levels of
execution on non-salary items. Schools have responded by creating more class groups and
budgeting more stavkas as the protected wage bill will be financed fully, unlike the discretionary
non-wage bill. The FTI-3 Review provided recommendations to address these issues, as well as to
highlight the need to fully fund monitoring of PCF. Most recently, the Ministry of Finance agreed
with the Ministry of Education to provide an adequate increase in the PCF formula parameters,
improving the sustainability of the reform outcomes.

61.     EMIS. Another significant achievement of the FTI series is the completion of the EMIS,
an important instrument to support the MOE in data collection for analysis and decision-making.
All planned modules of School-2 (Section 1.5) were completed and are operational. Additionally,
the EMIS department of the MOE, with technical support financed by FTI-3: (a) developed a
unified reports generator (a powerful, analytic tool that allows the user to draw from all modules
and make specific queries, required for in-depth analysis, decision-making and policy
development); (b) completed a financial module, Molia, to support the application of PCF on the
EMIS platform (replacing the previous Excel-based software); (c) completed a stand-alone
module for the Textbook Rental System (TRS); (d) established a network enabling the
transmission of EMIS data (FTP server) that allows the transmission of large files, as well as
normative documents, and MOE orders; and (e) established a domain for the MOE (maorif.tj),
permitting email and web pages (all REDs have access to the domain, including email).

62.    The FTI-3 Review reports on usage of the EMIS by four REDs and six schools. At the
REDs, it reports that the responsible person was able to use the module-based reports generator,



                                                19
some districts have fully automated data transmission from schools, and the relevant specialists
were proficient in using the fixed template module-based reports generator (but not the unified
reports generator). The Review found that, although improvements are possible in data entry at
the school level (to decrease the workload at the RED level), none of the schools visited reported
difficulties with using EMIS formats, but none had started using Molia financial software. At the
MOE, the EMIS and ARU Departments were proficient in using the EMIS for report generation
and data analysis.

63.     Finally, the National Center for Information Technologies and Communications (of the
MOE) is operational, and has offices in all except one of the REDs, and has adequate capacity to
provide information technology support to the MOE and its agencies.

64.      Fiduciary and Management Capacity Strengthening, and other Efficiency-Enhancing
Activities. Several other initiatives under FTI-3 were intended to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the education system. The Grant also supported the MOE, with technical
assistance and training, in several initiatives to strengthen its internal capacity in terms of
strategic planning, policy analysis and development, fiduciary management, and in M&E. A first
involved developing a policy and program to ensure that all children complete basic education. A
review of data sets, particularly the 2007 and 2009 Tajikistan Living Standards Surveys (TLSS),
the 2009 National School Census, and 2009 EMIS data, found that 2009 enrollment in basic
education was high, exceeding 90 percent for boys and girls in all grades, and had been increasing
since the mid-1990s (the latest data available at the time FTI-3 was prepared). The review also
found that: there was a sharp drop-off in enrollment after basic education (2009 EMIS data
reports that approximately 15 percent of students who started grade 9 dropped out); there were
discrepancies in the data (2009 TLSS reported that only 5 percent of men and 6 percent of women
reported not completing grade 9). The MOE also conducted a study of policy options for piloting
a transportation policy and identified schools where the lack of transportation made it difficult for
students to enroll and attend school regularly.

65.      The MOE functional review performed under FTI-2 had identified several weaknesses in
MOE’s structure, as well as capacity weaknesses. FTI-3 addressed the capacity weaknesses by
supporting fiduciary capacity building on financial management, procurement procedures and
management, as well as ensuring that technical support would be available to support the MOE in
these areas, with the explicit requirement in their terms-of-reference that consultants be tasked
with transferring knowledge and skills (as opposed to just filling gaps). Professional development
activities were targeted at 18 persons (100 percent of targeted staff, as oppose to the 90 percent
target) who attended, and passed, 22 courses on fiduciary capacity building. The FTI-3 Review
reports that of these, 15 were still working at the MOE upon completion, and that the participants
rated the value of the training programs highly, and continue to use the knowledge and skills
acquired. Additionally, an audit of the Textbook Rental System (TRS) identified serious
weaknesses in all areas of financing, accounting and reports, as well as in the area of internal
controls. Presently, the MOE is preparing a strategy for addressing the audit findings. These
findings will be discussed with development partners.

66.     Through FTI-3’s technical support, the MOE prepared and secured GOT approval for the
follow-up National Strategy for Education Development of the Republic of Tajikistan until 2020
(NSED2). The initial plan was compiled by a team of consultants that acted more as guides in the
process, while the content of the plan was influenced by an MOE Working Group (including
university professors and other educational professionals with expertise in priority areas of the
strategy) and the Sub-Working Groups responding to priority areas (pre-primary, general



                                                 20
education, vocational education, etc.). The Sub-Working Groups included development partners,
local non-governmental organizations and MOE officials, led by a member of the MOE Working
Group. Technical support was also provided for developing NSED2’s Mid-Term Action Plan.
The Development Partners have prepared an appraisal and endorsement report on NSED2 20. A
significant development for NSED2 is the approval of the strategy and the three-year budgeted
Action Plan by the Government (the earlier NSED was approved at the ministerial level). Finally,
FTI-3 provided technical support on curricular standards development. International experts
worked with MOE staff to develop a concept on standards and build capacity of local experts
(hired to develop subject standards for grades 1-11) through training on standards development.

67.      Quality: Finally, explicit in the PDO was the objective of improving in-service
training/mentoring systems for teachers and school directors, thus contributing to the NSED’s
third goal to ensure quality of educational services and to its second goal to improve the
effectiveness of the education system. FTI-3 also achieved successfully—in fact exceeded—
original targets for this proxy outcome, as presented in Table 4 below.

Table 4: Development Objective Indicators - Quality
Indicator                           Baseline    Target*                 Achievement                  Comment
Number of teachers who received Zero            1,000                   1,100; data not
in-class mentoring support during               (80% of est. target disaggregated by gender
the year                                        group)
*The proportion of beneficiaries who are female will be at least equal to the proportion in the general teacher
population

68.      School Directors’ Training. Building upon the directors’ training in financial
management and pedagogical leadership rolled out under FTI-1 and FTI-2 (and revised to
incorporate the findings of an effectiveness survey conducted in 2010, and presented to donors
and stakeholders for their comments 21 ), 816 school directors received training in financial
management under FTI-3; of these, 812 were also trained on pedagogical leadership. More
directors were trained than planned as the result of savings (due to lower than planned expenses
for training logistics). The pass rates for the courses were 97.1 percent and 99.7 percent for
financial management and pedagogical leadership, respectively, exceeding the targets of 90
percent.

69.      The school directors were chosen from among the districts where PCF was introduced
under FTI-3. Monitoring of this training, conducted by the Analysis and Education Sector Reform
Development Unit (ARU) of the MOE and RIITT in accordance with the Operation Manual was
effective. It found that: (a) the courses were logistically organized in as satisfactory manner, and
that the organization improved over time; (b) participant satisfaction was consistently high,
particularly with respect to the trainers; and (c) entry/exit tests were not initially applied
rigorously, though this was reported to have been remedied in subsequent training rounds.
Additionally, the first round of training found that trainer quality was generally satisfactory, but
identified trainers that were weak in all areas while identifying certain skills that were generally
weak across all trainers. In response, the RIITT replaced its weakest trainers, and provided a



20
   Development Partner’s Appraisal and Endorsement Report, “National Strategy for Education Development of the
Republic of Tajikistan until 2020”.
21
   The pedagogical leadership component was revised after the effectiveness survey with support from USAID that
supported a similar activity under its QLP.




                                                       21
refresher training of trainers targeting identified weaknesses. Subsequent monitoring of trainer
quality found that trainer quality improved.

70.      Mentoring. FTI-3 provided in-class mentoring support to 1,100 teachers (against a target
of 1,000), and more than 90 percent of the methodologists that were trained successfully mastered
the essentials of the training provided. The Grant financed training of mentors, conducting of two
follow-up visits by trainers to the schools to support mentoring activities, and monitoring of a
sample of schools (including control schools) to check on monitoring activities and assess
effectiveness of mentoring. The FTI-3 Review reports that the trainings were monitored by the
MOE and RIITT, and found to be of satisfactory quality in terms of logistics, participant
satisfaction, trainer quality and acquisition of knowledge. However, approximately two thirds of
the participants were not the correct profile for training (subject teachers instead of
methodologists and deputy director), due to issues by RIITT and REDs in properly identifying
and notifying participants. It also reports that the follow-up mentoring visits were conducted, and
found a moderate improvement in teachers’ pedagogical practices in beneficiary schools
(compared to control schools), but little or no change in the organization and content of
methodological support (that could be due to the profile of the persons trained, the content of the
training and/or difficulties for mentors in translating general principles of mentoring into practical
advice in specific subjects).

71.      INSET System Review. FTI-3 also aimed to develop policy options for reforming in-
service training and mentoring of teachers. Reviews of teacher training courses, a survey of
teachers’ training needs and experiences, a teachers’ assessment of training they had received and
an analysis of how well supply was meeting needs were conducted. The major findings were the
following, as reported in the FTI-3 Review. First, while trainers often train teachers on active
learning as a teaching-learning technique, the trainers do not themselves apply the technique
during training. Second, teacher-training courses focus on theory and information, while
providing little in the way of application, demonstration or practical lessons. Third, courses
proved too little to teachers in the way of visual aids, teachers’ guides and additional sources of
information that they might use to improve their practice. Fourth, teachers request more
flexibility in the courses they can take, and would like to choose from a menu of courses
according to their needs and interests. Fifth, courses tend to be designed based on the abilities and
interests of trainers, rather than on the needs and interest of teachers. A system to identify
teachers’ needs and interests does not exist. Finally, courses are rarely evaluated. The MOE is
developing an action plan to address the above findings and corresponding recommendations
provided in the FTI-3 Review.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

72.     A full economic analysis of the Project was not prepared at appraisal. Rather, its
economic and financial justification was based on the efficiency improvements expected with full
implementation of PCF through the increase in average class sizes, as measured by
student:teacher and student:stavka ratios, and on efficiency improvements expected from in-
service teacher training, directors’ training, and strengthening of the MOE’s management
capacities to improve the use of its scare resources. The Project satisfactorily concluded
scheduled activities in each of these areas (Section 3.2). Specifically, the Project exceeded
expectations regarding indicators of student:teacher and student:stavka ratios, although
experience with other districts that have been implementing PCF for a longer time present
worrisome trends that are being addressed.



                                                 22
73.      The Project’s efficiency can also be measured, ex-post, since it exceeded targets for
nearly every PDO and Intermediate Outcome indicator regarding civil works, furniture delivered,
reading materials provided, teachers provided with mentoring support, and mentors and directors
trained. The unit costs of school construction for works financed under FTI-3 averaged around
US$343 per square meter, compared to US$362 for those financed under FTI-2. While the costs
are relatively similar, the time lag between FTI-2 and FTI-3 should imply increases in material
costs due to inflation. In part, the decreased costs may well reflect the better specification adopted
in FTI-3 schools. On the other hand, there was a significant difference in the unit cost of reading
materials provided by UNICEF (TJS5.6 per copy) and by the Grant (TJS8.6 per copy). According
to the MOE, the price difference is mostly attributable to different sizes and specifications of the
materials procured under different sources of funding. The efficiency improvements supported
by the Project (Section 3.2) were the result of a policy reform that required minimal investment.

74.      For the reasons listed above, and cost savings under training activities and overall
efficient procurement, the Project as a whole faced cost savings that allowed the MOE to achieve
more than planned with the originally allocated resources (Section 3.2). The final allocation of
project expenditures by component is presented in Annex 1.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

75.      The Project’s Overall Outcome Rating is rated Satisfactory. Project’s many achievements
are evident: its sustained relevance, and exceeding, many targets set by the original PDO
Indicators and Intermediate Outcome indicators. Additionally, these targets were achieved
efficiently, utilizing cost savings to expand outputs. The Project’s activities directly promoted
greater efficiency in the use of education sector resources in Tajikistan. On the other hand, some
weaknesses were observed in implementation delays, weak monitoring of civil works, and
procurement and financial management.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

76.     The Project did not have a specific poverty focus, although the schools selected were to
be located in Tajikistan’s more vulnerable regions (Section 1.4) and 50 percent of schools which
benefitted from the civil works serve students from an ethnic-linguistic minority. The Project
aimed to achieve gender-equity in the provision of training; the relevant data was collected for the
directors and methodologists training was recorded by gender, and indeed, female participants (18
percent of directors, 51 percent of methodologists, and 75 percent of teachers) were proportionate
to the overall gender composition of directors (23 percent) and teachers (56 percent) (data for
methodologists not available).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

77.      FTI-3, similar to phases of the previous FTI grants, had a strong institutional capacity-
building objective, not only through the design and activities under individual components, but
more broadly, through the design of technical assistance with the specific aim of not only filling
identified gaps, but of transferring knowledge and capacity in the process. Specific outputs
related to institutional change and strengthening are described in Section 3.2. Building the
capacity for M&E was an integral—but not always successful – aspect of capacity building.


                                                 23
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

78.     Support to local market on civil works and goods – resulting in the price decrease in the
civil works (compare with FTI-2 prices) and job opportunities for local small contractors.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

79.      The GOT is fully committed to sustaining development outcomes. As one of the first
signatories to the Millennium Development and Education for All Goals, Tajikistan remains
committed to achieving their goals. NSED2, the second comprehensive strategic framework and
plan for the education sector (Section 3.2) was approved by the GOT by Decree on June 30, 2012,
compared to the earlier NSED that was approved only at the MOE level. Second, the GOT is
fully committed to pursuing education reforms in close collaboration with development partners
including the World Bank, through the LEDG. While provision of sustainable financing in the
amounts required to fully implement the NSED may be a challenge, the partners have provided
continuous and coordinated assistance, complementing their efforts through effective, in-country
support. Through the gradual transfer of implementation to the MOE proper, the Ministry has
been gradually building its capacity for assuming more responsibilities, including monitoring,
although close cooperation and support from donors may still be required.

80.     There are a few issues to be addressed in terms of sustainability of the project outcomes.
As for PCF, while the successful nationwide expansion of PCF proved its institutionalization, a
number of challenges have arisen that threaten the sustainability of PCF implementation, as
discussed above. It is essential that the government continues to adapt the PCF model to suit the
emerging needs, while pursuing the fundamental principles to ensure the sustainability of the
reform. Most recently, the Ministry of Finance agreed with the Ministry of Education to provide
an adequate increase in the PCF formula parameters, improving the sustainability of the reform
outcomes. With regard to civil works, the quality was found uneven, and there is a need to
improve the supervision capacity of the Ministry. Schools allocate budget for maintenance from
the budget envelope provided based on PCF. The independent third party verification (Section
2.3) found that the schools constructed/rehabilitated under FTI-1 and FTI-2 were being
maintained, and that, in general, schools were maintained satisfactorily. Finally, the MOE will
need to address criteria for the selection of mentors, since a majority of teachers trained under the
Project did not have the correct profile and as a result, did not provide mentoring support to other
teachers in their school. However, the mentoring training had an impact on improving teachers’
pedagogical practices.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                 24
81.     FTI-3 followed earlier phases of FTI assistance, but the preparation team ensured that
lessons learned were incorporated and that activities were coordinated with and built upon those
of other donors. The Project’s implementation arrangements were carefully thought through with
the objective of supporting the MOE in critical areas which needed strengthening, while the
conditions existed for its capacity to be built-up in the process simultaneously. The Project’s
Results Framework was realistic, and limited activities to indicators which could reasonably be
expected to impact beneficiaries during its short implementation period. The PAD was very
detailed in explaining the rationale for each of the above factors, as was the Project’s Operations
Manual in detailing the requirements of monitoring activities under each of its components. The
Project, as designed, was responsive to needs while being mindful of institutional capacity
constraints (as well as a limited implementation period). It was designed in a way that made
achieving its objectives feasible.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

82.     Bank supervision was consistent, proactive, and effective. The project restructurings were
suitably responsive to eventual realities. Coordination with other donors was maintained
throughout in the form of the LEDG, under UNICEF and the World Bank’s leadership. Bank and
other donors’ supervision was results-oriented, not only with regard to monitoring indicators, but
also in pushing for regular evaluations of the impact of specific activities, specifically feedback
on workshops and trainings. Additionally, supervision was focused in defining findings and
required actions from the MOE, and of filling gaps where needed such as the verification of civil
works. M&E of activities was focused, and was not performed for the sake of it, but to improve
the design and content of activities based on feedback and lessons. Mid-Term Review and
Completion Reviews were comprehensive and very well documented, not only presenting updates
on progress, but identifying issues and making concrete recommendations of how to address them.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

83.     Overall World Bank Performance is rated Highly Satisfactory, based on similar ratings
for both Quality at Entry and Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

84.     The Borrower’s commitment to the NSED and to the Project was unwavering throughout.
It remains fully committed to the MDG and EFA goals, as reflected in the issuance, by Decree, of
its second NSED in 2012. The main issue that affected Borrower Performance was the delay in
contracting of the audits of project financial statements through a block audit process.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.      The Implementing Agency Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This was the
first project fully implemented directly by the MOE without a special PMU. Given this fact, the
MOE and its relevant units performed well, adapting to the World Bank’s fiduciary (despite
minor issues) and Safeguard Requirements. The MOE and its Departments were able to sustain



                                                25
implementation despite minor shortcomings (Section 2.2). However, the MOE faced three main
issues. First, the Project’s implementation was affected by a change at the ministerial level that
resulted in staffing changes at all levels, leading to the loss of some capable, trained staff. Second,
although sufficient amounts were budgeted for monitoring specific component activities (civil
works and EMIS in particular) those funds were not fully released, and resulted in a lack of
monitoring towards the end of implementation. Finally, there was inadequate supervision of the
quality of the civil works and equipment supplied.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

86.   Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on similar ratings for
Borrower and Implementing Agency performance, and the Project’s satisfactory outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

87.      Design: The Project’s Results Framework was feasible, centered on basic output
indicators that could have been measured realistically, and that the Project could impact, with
some stretch, during its short implementation period. For an investment operation, the design of a
project’s results framework should be based on readily available and easy to measure data; the
ability of the implementing agency to monitor; and on indicators that measure impacts that can be
(directly) attributed to the project. While for a project of medium- to longer-term implementation
it is desirable to measure intermediate or final outcomes, a project of shorter duration cannot be
expected to influence these. Similarly, while it may be desirable to have more complex indicators,
improperly established monitoring systems could result in challenges when measuring progress.
Therefore, it would be preferable to create indicators that are simple, and easy to quantify and
measure.

88.     Project implementation period: FTI-1 and FTI-2 were both designed for the 18-month
implementation period and extended by one year. Despite that it was almost certain that 18
months would not be sufficient to successfully implement a project, the implementation period
for FTI-3 was also required to be 18-months. It is unrealistic to expect FTI-funded projects to be
completed in such a short period, particularly in a low capacity country like Tajikistan, if
substantial outcomes are to be achieved. (This lesson might have contributed to the GPE’s
decision to extend the project implementation periods to 3-4 years. Indeed, the GPE-4 in
Tajikistan was designed for three years of project implementation.)

89.      M&E should be integral to project design. M&E is much more than measuring progress.
It should be seen as an integral aspect of learning to improve performance and impact. Quite apart
from monitoring progress in accordance with the Project’s Results Framework, the Project’s
Operations Manual included procedures, tools, and processes for monitoring (or supervising) the
Project’s achievements and the feedback from stakeholders under individual components as the
activities were being implemented. The purpose was to follow performance, evaluate
effectiveness, and incorporate findings while addressing issues to improve effectiveness.

90.     Similarly, programmatic-type operations provide an appropriate instrument for
implementing, learning, adjusting, and improving. But, for these benefits, follow-on operations
need to evaluate, learn, and revise adjusting activities to account for capacities and realities.
Significant attention is directed toward incorporating “lessons learned,” but projects often
summarize lessons of similar or other operations without sufficiently adjusting them to


                                                 26
incorporate past lessons. This Project’s design and implementation are examples of best practices
in terms of reflecting learning, and adjusting adequately to improve results.

91.      Implementation through any implementing agency with weak capacity is a challenge. The
FTI series, particularly FTI-3 which was implemented through the structure of the implementing
agency, MOE, presents a successful effort toward achieving satisfactory outcomes, while
gradually transferring implementation responsibilities to an agency whose capacity is – through
project activities – actively being strengthened. While technical assistance will likely be required
to support an implementing agency that requires strengthening, it is significant that the objective
of that technical assistance not aim to cover for or comply with responsibilities of the agency. It is
imperative that any required technical support be charged with transferring capacity to the
implementing agency.




                                                 27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)

1. Improving the learning
                                             10.31              11.00             106.7%
environment
2. In-service training to
pedagogical and managerial                      0.85             0.86             101.2%
personnel
3. Policy reform, research and
                                                1.16             0.81               69.8%
evaluation
4. Capacity building and Grants
                                                0.79             0.83             105.1%
management
               Total Baseline Cost           13.11              13.50
Contingencies                                 0.39               0.00
               Total Project Costs           13.50              13.50               100%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
 Trust Funds                                              0.00        0.00
 EFA-FTI Education Program
                                                        13.50           13.50     100.0%
 Development Fund




                                           29
               Annex 2. Outputs by Component
            Indicator              Baseline       Target at Completion                    Actual                   Comment
Grant Development Objective: to contribute to an increased access to improved learning environments and a more efficient delivery of
quality education services
Access (in the targeted schools):
Number of Students that have      Zero         CWs: 13,000 (est.)             14,720 in 30 completed
benefited from civil works                                                    schools
Number of students that have      Zero         Furniture: 67,000 (est.)       106,000                      The initial target was
benefited from furniture                                                                                   changed to 67,000 at
                                                                                                           the MTR
Number of students that have      Zero         Reading Materials: 180,000 298,000                          Includes FTI-3 and
benefited from reading materials               (est.)                                                      UNICEF contributions
Efficient Delivery:
Pupil:stavka ratio in new PCF     TBD at       Increase of at least one point                              Baseline was measured
rayons                            beginning                                   14.9                         as 12.9
                                  of Grant
Class size in new PCF rayons      TBD at       Increase of at least one point                              Baseline was measured
                                  beginning                                   20.4                         as 19.4; actual reached
                                  of Grant                                                                 20.7 in 1/2012 then
                                                                                                           decreased
Quality:
Number of teachers who            Zero         1,000 (80% of est. target      1,100; no data disaggregated
received in-class mentoring                    group. The proportion of       by gender
support during the year                        beneficiaries who are
                                               female will be at least equal
                                               to the proportion in the
                                               general teacher population
Component 1: Improving the learning environment
Sub-component 1.1: School Buildings Upgrade
Number of classrooms that have Zero            200 (est.)                     257 in 29 completed schools
been rehabilitated or                                                         where classrooms were
constructed                                                                   rehabilitated
RIITT facility rehabilitated                                                  95% of work completed        Indicator introduced in
                                                                                                           Restructuring Paper
                                                                                                           dated May 23, 2012
Sub-component 1.2: School Furniture Supply
Number of classroom               Zero         1,100 (est.)                   1,500
(equivalents) equipped with
new furniture
Sub-component 1.3: Provision of Reading Materials
Number of schools that            Zero         700 (est.)                     1,000
received supplementary reading
materials
Component 2: In-service training of pedagogical and managerial personnel
Sub-component 2.1: School Directors Training
% of FTI-trained directors who    Zero         At least 90% (of 600 est.      97.06%, of which 18% were
successfully master the                        directors to be trained). The female
essentials of the course                       proportion of directors
                                               trained who are female will
                                               be at least equal to the
                                               proportion of directors who
                                               are female.
Sub-component 2.2: Mentoring
% of FTI-trained                  Zero         At least 90% (of 520 est.      90.10%



                                                                  30
methodologists who                                 methodologists to be
successfully master the                            trained). The proportion of
essential of the course                            methodologists trained who
                                                   are female will be at least
                                                   equal to the proportion of
                                                   methodologists who are
                                                   female.
Sub-component 2.3: INSET 22 System Review
Reports are completed and        No reports   Final report is available,   Field works are completed
recommendations discussed                     including analyses of
                                              training needs and demands;
                                              of training courses; and of
                                              relation between
                                              demand/need and supply,
                                              including recommendations
Component 3: Policy reform, research and evaluation
Sub-component 3.1: Per Capita Financing
% of the districts in the country N.A.        At least 70%                 73.5%
that have their school budget
approved according to the PCF
regulations
Sub-component 3.2: Education Management Information System
Number of module reports          No reports 9 (teachers; school library;  9 modules completed
submitted to the Unit for                     premises, territory and
Analysis and Education Sector                 equipment; demography;
Reform Development                            students; infrastructure and
                                              buildings; textbooks rental;
                                              construction; financial
                                              management
Sub-component 3.3: Evaluation of Supply- and Demand-Side Schemes to Promote Enrollment and Attendance
Reports are completed and         No reports All planned report should be Local NGO was hired and
recommendations discussed                     published and officially     field work is completed
                                              discussed, by 16 month
                                              mark (quantitative
                                              assessment; causal analysis;
                                              evaluations of CCP, school
                                              meals and outreach projects;
                                              comparative cost-
                                              effectiveness analysis;
                                              international experience;
                                              policy options
Component 4: Capacity building and Grant management
Sub-component 4.1: Fiduciary and Management Capacity Strengthening
Percentage of targeted MOE        Zero        At least 90% of targeted     100%
staff who successfully passed                 staff
trainings on financial
management, procurement
procedures, and management




               22
                 The In-Service Training (INSET) refers to the state systems for in-service training and support for teachers and
               directors.




                                                                         31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Please see Section 3.3




                                           32
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Rajiv Aggarwal              Consultant                        ECSH2 Architect
Ruslan Amanbaev             Consultant                        ECSH2 Engineer
Saodat Bazarova             Senior Operations Officer         ECSH2 TTL
Gabriel C. Francis          Program Assistant                 ECSHD Program Assistant
David Gochasvilli           Consultant                        ECSHD Consultant
Darejan Kapanadze           Environment Specialist            ECSEN Safeguards
Dilshod Karimova            Procurement Analyst               ECSO2 Procurement
Sachiko Kataoka             Sr. Education Economist           ECSH2 Education Financing
Naushad A. Khan             Consultant                        SARPS Procurement
Hannah M. Koilpillai        Senior Finance Officer           CTRFC-His Financial Management
Scherezad Joya Monami Latif Senior Education Specialist       SASED Sr. Education Specialist
Martin H. Lenihan           Sr. Social Development Specialist LCSSO Social Development
Shodi Nazarov               Financial Management Analyst      ECSO3 Financial Management
John Otieno Ogallo          Sr. Financial Mgmt Specialist     OPSOR Financial Management
Danielle Malek Roosa        Senior Counsel                    LEGES Operations
Kseniia Malenko             Finance Analyst                   CTRDM Financial Management
Gerard Peart                Consultant                        ECSH2 M&E
Nithin Umapathi             Consultant                        ECSH2 Economist
Yuling Zhou                 Lead Procurement Specialist       ECSC2 Procurement
Shoira Zukhurova            Program Assistant                 ECCTJ Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Suzana Abbott              Consultant                          ECSH2   Author
Rajiv Aggarwal             Consultant                          ECSH2   Architect
Jeremie Matthew Amoroso    Junior Professional Associate       ECSH2   Author
Ruslan Amanbaev            Consultant                          ECSH2   Engineer
Norosoa Andrianaivo        Program Assistant                   ECSH2   Program Assistant
Saodat Bazarova            Senior Operations Officer           ECSH2   TTL
Arcadii Capcelea           Environmental Specialist            ECSEN   Safeguards
Ma Dessirie                Finance Analyst                     CTRLA   Finance
Nagaraju Duthaluri         Lead Procurement Specialist         ECSO2   Procurement
Amy Evans                  Consultant                           AES    Env. Specialist
Joseph Formoso             Senior Finance Officer              CTRLA   Finance
Gabriel Francis            Program Assistant                   ECSH2   Program Assistant
Gerard Peart               Consultant                          ECSH2   M&E
Scherezad Latif            Senior Education Specialist         SASED   Sr. Education Specialist
Martin H. Lenihan          Sr. Social Development Specialist   LCSSO   Social Development
Dilshod Karimova           Procurement Analyst                 ECSO2   PAS
Sachiko Kataoka            Senior Education Economist          ECSH2   TTL
Shodi Nazarov              Financial Management Analyst        ECSO3   Financial Management


                                           33
Janna Ryssakova              Consultant                         Consultant Consultant
                                                                           Curriculum, mentoring
Ana Maria Sandi              Consultant                          ECSH2
                                                                           support, INSET


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY10                                            6.28                        5.20
                            Total:                 6.28                        5.20
Supervision/ICR
   FY11                                         3.11                           8.79
                             Total:             3.11                           8.79
Note: FTI supervision Trust Fund (TF094399) funded most of the staff time and cost.




                                              34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

There was no completion related event, but there were several roundtables and workshops during
the project, including civil works (innovative design (roundtable), quality of civil work
supervision and works), mentoring support (2 roundtables), directors training, M&E results, and
Third Party verification (presentation to the key stakeholders).




                                              36
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Main beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project are: schoolchildren, teachers, directors, and employers of
the education system at national and local level.

2. Evaluation of results
2.1 Results overview
The overall objective of Grant development - to contribute to an increased access to improved
learning environments and a more efficient delivery of quality education services.

Main targets of Project have been successfully completed, and completed all intermediate
indicators. The results on achieved tasks were as follows:

1. Approximately 14,720 students have benefited from construction work, which exceeds the
   target by 13.2%.
2. Approximately 106,600 students have benefited from purchase of furniture, which exceeds
   the target by 213% (50,000).
3. Number of students in grades 1-4 who have benefited from training materials was 298,000,
   which exceeds the target by 65% (180,000).
4. More than 1,100 teachers in pilot schools received different kinds of methodological support
   from the side of trained mentors. This indicator also exceeds the target by 10% (1,000).
5. Indicators of system on per-capita financing (PCF) a) "student’s coefficient / rate in new
   areas of PCF” and b) "Ratio of student/class" had to increase at least on one point from initial
   indicators. Thus, at the beginning of project on first indicator was 12.9 and 19.4 on second.
   Thus, in 2011, the ratio of the first indicator was 14.9, and 20.4 for the second.

2.2 Intermediate Indicators
a. Number of classes repaired or built
b. Number of classes provided with new furniture
c. Number of schools receiving additional training materials
d. % of directors who trained under FTI who successfully mastered basics of course
e. % of methodologists passed training in a frame of FTI who have successfully mastered basics
    of courses
f. Prepared reports and discussed recommendations
g. % of districts where schools have approved budget in accordance with rules of PCF
h. Number of reports submitted to Department of Analysis/Development of Reforms of
    Education Sector
i. Prepared reports and discussed recommendations
j. % of targeted employees of MoE who successfully passed training on financial management,
    procurement procedures and management.

2.3 Achieving Results on Components
Component 1: Improved learning environment
The objective of this component was to improve conditions of education, which in turn
contributed to the fifth goal of NSED on improving of physical infrastructure and material-
technical aspects of the education system.




                                               37
Subcomponent 1.1: Updating of school buildings
According to this subcomponent, planned repair and construction work in 30 objects at a cost of
US$7.3 million. Repair and construction of 20 objects (12 objects of construction of new schools,
2 objects of new construction of education departments and 6 repair objects) in Sogd at a cost of
US$4.39 million. In addition, in RRS provides repair and construction of 10 objects (9 objects of
construction of new school and 1 object of repair) at a cost of US$2.92 million.

  №                                                 Plan               Actual              %
 1      Repair-construction works              $7.30 million     $7.67 million           105%
 2      Consulting service                     $0.25 million     $0.58 million           232%
 3      Equipment and operating expenses       $0.15 million     $0.08 million           53%
        Total:                                 $7.70 million     $8.33 million           108%

Measures on implementation of subcomponent:
• Selection of objects for rehabilitation
• Implementation of Framework program of resettlement and getting of WB approval
• Preparation of environmental management plan and getting of WB approval
• Development of PED on objects of rehabilitation (7 objects), and objects of construction (23
  objects)
• Selection, hiring and training of regional engineers, monitors
• Construction and repair works on 7 objects of rehabilitation and 23 objects of construction

Results
Three international consultants were hired to oversee development of project estimate
documentation (PED) who fully completed their work. Local design firm LLC
"TOCHIKLOIHA-INVEST" was hired. Work of local design firm on development of PED for 30
objects, and their performance on state examination is completed. It is important to note that
developments of PED were applied following innovations;
• Heat insulation of floors of first stage.
• Metal construction of roof.
• Monolith reinforced concrete floor coating and coating of educational buildings.
• Additional automatic power in distribution boards in educational buildings.
• Laying of cables under plaster in PVC pipes.
• Model of Technical Specifications.
• Laying of heating pipes and return pipes indoors.
• Insulated exterior walls of educational building from foam blocks.

It should also be noted that repair and construction works were undertaken at a cost of US$8.25
million. Due to these provided funds of subcomponent, all 30 objects were financed and still had
some saved funds. Repair and construction works of 8 more objects (secondary school # 4 of
Varzob, secondary school # 42 of Asht, secondary school # 64 of Rudaki, secondary school # 134
of Vakhdat, secondary schools # 22, 10 of Faizabad, building of Sogd Education Department and
building of RIITT.

All activities to be undertaken in this subcomponent are completed
   Comparing of objects of first stage with          Comparing of objects of first stage with
                      second                                       second
                     Sogd                                              RRS
                       Stage -1     Stage -2                            Stage -1       Stage -2



                                               38
    Zafarabad №12            56,2         83,3         Hisar №19                24           60
     Asht №15                56,5          40          Rudaki №38               80          96,6
    Shahristan №7            69,2         100          Rudaki №19               88          85,7
    Shahristan №9            69,5         100          Hisar №56                96          75,7
    Asht №43                  72           61          Shahrinav №28           100          80,7
    Isfara №28                94          97,6         Varzob №1                73          83,3

   Subcomponent 1.2: Provision of school furniture
   This subcomponent aims to ensure that all new and repaired school buildings (completed under
   subcomponent 1.1) were provided with furniture and lack of furniture in other schools were
   eliminated in favor of approximately 50,000 students. The intent was to purchase school furniture
   at a cost of US$2.5 million.

   Measures on implementation of subcomponents
   • Monitoring of necessary furniture for schools and development list of recipients
   • Preparation of tender documents
   • Consideration of biddings
   • Selection of winner and signing of contract
   • Reception of equipment
   • Gradual distribution of equipment for schools

   Results
   Total amount of US$1.48 million in Sogd and RRS, 208 secondary schools were equipped with
   furniture, which is reflected in Table 1.

             Table 1
 Desks and Tables and      Boards     Bookcases      Set of       Set of     Wardrobe    Shelving
  chairs   chairs for                             furniture for tables and              for library
            teachers                                office of chairs for
                                                    Director computer
                                                                   class
  53,567        4148        1359         2843          79          251         82          234

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.
Subcomponent 1.3: Providing of reading materials
This subcomponent aims to improve availability of reading materials for students of primary classes
in about one-quarter of country's schools.

According to this subcomponent planned to purchase reading materials for primary school students,
about 900 schools in country at a cost of US$0.21 million (US$0.11 million from the side of FTI
GCF-3 and US$0.1 million from the side of UNICEF).

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
  • Development of criteria and selection of reading materials
   • Contract signing for purchase of reading materials
   • Development of instructions on use of reading materials
   • Delivery of reading material



                                                  39
Results
One of the main activities of this subcomponent is determination of technical criteria of selection for
study available materials and implementation of procurement process. For implementation of given
activity MoE was necessary to hire international and local consultants. Competition was declared
which results were summarized and process of evaluation is complete. However, because of not
matching specialty, international consultant received objection. After second holding competition
was hired international consultant who meets all requirements and criteria. Then hired local
consultants and planned activities of subcomponent were start.

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Component 2: In-service training of teaching and leading staff.

The objective of this component was to improve training systems/mentoring without departing from
work schedule for teachers and school directors, thus contributing to the third goal of NSED
providing quality of educational services and to the second goal on improving efficiency of
educational system.

Subcomponent 2.1: Training for school directors
This subcomponent aims to ensure that approximately 900 school directors of the republic gained
knowledge and skills on improving their management in schools at a cost of US$0.33 million.

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
  • Compilation of achieved results on monitoring and evaluation results of completed courses
      with a view of amending to package of training materials
   • Hiring of local expert on synthesis and preparation of recommendations for improving of
      training materials for directors
  • Develop and agreement list of training participants with stakeholders
   • Preparation package of materials on conducting TOT
   • Conduction of TOT on INSET for directors with participation of FTI-2 trainers and new
      trainers
   • Preparation package of materials on INSET of Directors (replicating of training modules,
      instructions for trainers, distribution materials)
   • Conducting of INSET for directors (Sogd, Khatlon, GBAO, Dushanbe and RRS)

   Results
   The purpose of this event was to identify successful in-service training courses (INSET) of
   directors of secondary schools. After completion of mini-survey and synthesis of results was
   organized roundtable in the hall of the RIITT in which was attended heads of departments and
   heads of departments of the Ministry of Education, representatives of the World Bank and other
   donor groups.

   Measures on internal monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of subcomponent
   Based on Guidelines on M&E Department of Analysis and Development (DAD) of MoE is
   responsible for internal M&E of this subcomponent. For this purpose were prepared three types
   of instrument; logistics, satisfactory of participants and evaluation of trainers activity. After that
   was, establish working group of DAD MoE employers and hired monitors that were used to
   assess activity of trainers. All monitors have been trained in proper use of tools, both theoretically
   and practically. As a result all workshop/training covered by M&E system. After completion of




                                                    40
each phase of M&E workshop/training, working group on M&E give all filled instruments to
specialist on data entry and processing.

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.
Subcomponent 2.2: Mentoring (Tutorship)
According to this subcomponent is planned mentoring support for teachers approximately in 135
schools of the country at a cost of US$0.27million.

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
• Revision of training courses
• Qualification Improvement of trainers
• Revision of structure and instruments of monitoring
• Training on program "Mentoring and methodical support of teachers"
   • Visit of schools
• Monitoring of mentoring programs

Results
Research was conduct in RRS, Dushanbe and Kurgan-tube of Khatlon region. According to the
results of research and data analysis has been prepared concept according to which local
consultants in cooperation with international consultant were include changes in structure and
content of program "Mentoring and methodological support of teachers." Next was held
approbation seminar from 7th up to 16th of December 2010 in one group consisting from 25
members.
All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Subcomponent 2.3: Review of INSET system
This sub-component aims to develop policies for reforming of in-service training and mentoring
of teachers and for carrying out activities under subcomponent calculated amount US$0.25
million.

Measures on implementation of subcomponent:
• Development and coordination of questionnaire with purpose of inventories of existing
   methodical aids and educational modules for INSET
• Development and coordination of Terms of references for Consulting company
• Hiring of scientific research organization for assessment of maintenance of educational
   modules for INSET and research of needs of teachers and execution of works
• Hiring of international consultant for completion of recommendations on Functional review

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Component 3: Policy Reforms, Research and Evaluation
The objective of this component is to strengthen development and implementation of national
education policy.

Subcomponent 3.1: Per Capita Financing
This subcomponent aims to continuation of support of further development of national
introduction of per capita financing (PCF) in secondary education, with special focus on
remaining areas that transfer to PCF starting from 2010. The cost of these activities amounted to
US$0.6 million.




                                               41
Measures on implementation of subcomponent:
• Coordination at national level
• Employment of local consultants on PCF
• Assistance to work on places on cities and regions of RT at level of each school
• Employment of international consultant
• Training of new methods of management and financings
• Work with public
• Strengthening of capacity of all parties involved in process of introduction of PCF

Results in a frame of this subcomponent:
To provide practical assistance to regions and cities of Tajikistan, educational institutions have
been transferred to PCF from January 1, 2010 on a contract basis were.

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Subcomponent 3.2: Education Management of Information System
Purpose
This subcomponent aims to ensure collection of education data for analysis and decision-
making. These activities cost approximately US$0.21 million.

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
• Introduction in exploitation modules ‘Schools-2
• Training staff of EMIS Department
• Consideration of performance and structure of Master Plan

Results
From the beginning of grant activities on development and implementation of automated
information, systems are implemented based on the EMIS plan.

 There are three automated information systems (AIS)
1. AIS "Maktab-2" which consists from 6 modules; teacher, library, general compulsory
     education, pupil, material resources of school, school passport
2. AIS "Finance"
3. AIS "Rent of Textbooks" which in turn shares on 2 parts: the level of MoE, and districts
4.
 All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Subcomponent 3.3: Evaluation schemes of supply and improving enrollment and
attendance
This sub-component aims to develop policies and programs to ensure that all children have
completed secondary education.

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
  • assistance to general receiving basic education
          - Reasons connected with coverage and attendance
          - Assessment of programs
          - Develop and present measures of policy and pilot program on strengthening of
              universal coverage and attendance based on results of work, which has been
              carried out by consulting company.
          - Granting of school buses


                                               42
Results under this subcomponent:
The World Bank and the Ministry of Education, after long discussions, came to an agreement that
there was no need for implementation of activities on research, so this event was removed from
FTI-3.

All activities to be undertaken in a frame of this subcomponent are completed.

Component 4: Capacity Building and grant management
This component meant to strengthen key management and fiduciary capacities of the MoE and
grant performers, thus contributing to the second goal of NSED on improving efficiency of the
education system. This component will also finance additional administrative costs of managing
of grant FTI -3.

Subcomponent 4.1: Strengthening fiduciary and management capacity
This subcomponent aims to improve fiduciary and management capacities of MoE. According to
this subcomponent, planned to reinforce key management and fiduciary capacity of MoE RT,
carrying out audit textbook rent system and revision of National Strategy of Education
Development (NSED) at a cost of US$0.49 million.

Measures on implementation of subcomponents:
• Strengthening of fiduciary potential concerning financial management and procurement
  activity.
• Improvement of management in a frame of the Ministry of Education
• NSED revision
• Audit of textbooks rent system
• Purchase of furniture

Results:
Six employees of the Ministry of Education successfully passed seminar/training on procurement
and financial management, which was held in Almaty, Kazakhstan. Also 5 employees of the
Ministry of Education and consultants of GCF-3 successfully passed seminar/training on financial
management in the Republic of Kyrgyzstan in Bishkek.

Subcomponent 4.2: Management of grant
This subcomponent aimed to ensure that activities of the grant were carried out satisfactorily and
in a timely manner.

Results
Financial condition: total amount of disbursements from the beginning of implementation of grant
is US$12.17 million (90.2% of total grant amount).

Direct responsibility for grant-management was entrusted to the Minister of Education, who
fulfilled the function of national coordinator on FTI-3. The Deputy Minister was fully responsible
for ensuring that the Ministry of Education met all requirements on monitoring, reporting and
evaluation, as prescribed in Legal Grant Agreement signed between the World Bank and the
Republic of Tajikistan. The Project Coordinator supported the Deputy Minister.

It is also important to note that this grant satisfactorily passed all donor missions, inspection and
audits to date.



                                                 43
3. Factors affecting on implementation of Project
a) Comprehensive support on all levels of government and full support and cooperation of
organizations and institutions that operate in field of education and which are structural division
of the Ministry of Education.
b) Professionalism and constant support of World Bank team have stimulated specialists of the
Ministry of Education to cooperate and seek timely resolution of target goals and objectives.

4. Assessment of Bank and Borrower
4.1. Bank’s work in preparation and supervision of project
Preparation
During preparation of the grant by the World Bank, they received full technical support in the
form of financing of local and international consultants. Professional support of the World Bank
team has enabled to develop project proposal in accordance with requirements and standards of
World Bank.

Supervision over execution
During visits, the WB team led direct supervision over implementation of Grant, including
identification and solutions for problems and difficulties. Ongoing support and quick response of
World Bank team led to successful completion of Grant.

5. Learned lessons and recommendations
Lessons
   1.  Construction and restoration of buildings, both providing schools with furniture and
       equipment are positive factors influencing the increase in the level of knowledge and
       attendance.
   2.  Additional training materials for primary classes are an important source of receiving
       new materials that promote improvement in the level of knowledge.
   3.  PCF at comprehensive schools showed its efficiency, and it demands significant
       ownership from leaders, and allows schools to become much more independent.
   4.  INSET for employers of education system is necessary and important.
   5.  Implementation of projects in close cooperation with authorities increases effect and
       positively influences on stability of project on places.
   6.  Education Management of Information System (EMIS) is an important source of
       obtaining information for the Ministry of Education of RT and all branches as whole.

Recommendations
 1.  It is necessary to invest in the construction of new educational establishments and
     provide schools with furniture and equipment.
 2.  It is necessary to invest in construction to increase administrative staffs at all levels of
     education system.
 3.  Improvement of per capita financing mechanism and application of this experience in
     system of preschool institutions and primary professional education.
 4.  To strengthen capacity of the Ministry of Education for further development of EMIS
     system as main source of information in education.




                                                44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

FTI Grant Series Evaluation, Third Party Verification of Works, Goods and Services, August
       2012.

Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, National Strategy of Education Development of the
      Republic of Tajikistan, Dushanbe.

Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, 2007, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
      Dushanbe.

Ministry of Education of the Republic of Tajikistan, 2013. Report on Project Completion, 2013.

World Bank, 2009, Project Appraisal Document, Proposed Grant to the Republic of Tajikistan for
       the Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund Project – 3, Report No. 49349. December 2009.

World Bank, 2012, Mid-Term Progress Review and Implementation Progress. Fast Track
      Initiative – Catalytic Fund Grant, Third Year Allocation, August 2012.

World Bank, 2013, Implementation Completion Report. Fast Track Initiative – Catalytic Fund
      Grant, Third Year Allocation. November 2013.

World Bank, 2014, Implementation Completion Report. Credit and Grants to the Republic of
       Tajikistan for an Education Modernization Project, January 2014.

World Bank, various years, Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions (5 documents), 2009-2012.

World Bank, various years, Implementation Status and Results Reports (4 documents), 2010-2013.




                                              46
                                                                  68°E                                                                   70°E
                                                                                                                                                                              42°N                                                                                TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FAST TRACK INITIATIVE
                                                                              KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                      CATALYTIC FUND PROJECT-3
                                 TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT REGIONS

                                                                                                                         UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CITIES AND TOWNS                                                Region under    Ghorno-
                                                                                                                        Tashkent                                                                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*                                      direct Republic Badakhshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  subordination Auton. Oblast                          Khatlon                     Sogd
                                                                                                                                                                                                   REGION CENTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1   Tursunzoda      14   Darvoz        21 Nosir Khusrav   33 Panj         45   Pandjakent
                                                                                                                                                       57                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 2   Shahrinav       15   Vanj          22 Shahrituz       34 Danghara     46   Ayni
                                                                                                                                            Fergana                            To                                                                                   3   Rudaki          16   Ishkoshim     23 Qabodiyon       35 Farkhor      47   Shahriston
                                                                                              To                                              Valley Dary                    Andijon               MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4   Hissor          17   Roshtqala     24 Jilikul         36 Norak        48   Zafarobod
                                                                                           Tashkent                                  Taboshar                r
                                                                                                                 52                                     Sy                                         RAILROADS                                                        5   Varzob          18   Rushon        25 Khuroson        37 Vose         49   Istaravshan
                                                                                                                                   55                                                                                                                               6   Fayzobod        19   Shughnon      26 Qumsangir       38 Temurmalik   50   Ghonchi
                                                                                                                                     Kayrakkum                                                     RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                      7   Vahdat          20   Murghob       27 Bokhtar         39 Kulob        51   Spitamen
                                                                                                            Khodjand                  Reservoir           Konibodom                                                                                                 8   Roghun                             28 Rumi            40 Baljuvon     52   Mastchoh
                                                                                                                                                                                                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                                        Chkolovsk                 56                                                                                                                9   Nurobod                            29 Jomi            41 Hamadoni     53   Jabor Rasulov
                                                                                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                 51 53
                                                                                           48                                                                                                                                                                      10   Rasht                              30 Vakshs          42 Shurobod     54   Kuhistoni Mastchoh
                                                                  To                                                                                      58                                                                                                       11   Tojikobod                          31 Yovon           43 Khovaling    55   Ghafurov
                40°N                                            Bukhoro                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                    49                                                                                                                                                             12   Tavildara                          32 Sarband         44 Muminobod    56   Konibodom
                                                                                                         Ura-                                                           40°N                   * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,               13   Jirgatol                                                              57   Asht
                                                    SOGD                                                 Tyube                                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              58   Isfara
                                                                                                                                                                           To
                     To
                                                   REGION                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                        Kyzyl-Kiya
                   Bukhoro                                                                 47                                        KY RGY Z REP.                                               To 72°E                                                  To                         74°E                                                               76°E
                                                                                                                                                                                              Sary-Tash                                                   Osh
                                                                                                                                an
                                               Pendzhikent                            Ayni                              Zeravsh
                                                                                                                               54
                                                         45                                                        ge
                                                                                       46
                                                                                                          i-   Ran                                                           Jirgatal'   13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pik Lenin
                                                                                           Ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (7134 m )
                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                    r a ns                                                                                                    Pik Imeni                                                  Lake
                                                                                  T                                                                                     11               Ismail Samani                                                 Karakul'
                                                                                                                     Komsomolabad
                                                                                                                                                          Rasht
                                                                                                                                                                                            (7495 m )                                                                                                                  CHI N A
                                                                                                5                7                         9                                       12
                                 Region under                                      4                                            8
                                direct Republic                                                                               Obigarm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GHORNO-
                                                                     1                       DUSHANBE                                                                  14
                                subordination                                 2                                     6                                                                                                            BADAKHSHAN                                                              Rangkul'
                                                                                                                                   40                            Kalaikhum                       Pik Revolution
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (6,974 m)
                                                                                                                                          43                                             Vanj 15
                                                                                                                    Nurek
                                                                                                                                                                                           P                                                       A.O.               20
                  U Z B E KIS TAN                                                 3
                                                                                                               36
                                                                                                                                                                                                   a                      ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng         Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Murgab Murgab
                                                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                            m



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                            44
                                                                                                                                                           j
                                                                                                                                                       Pan




                                                                                      25                                 38                                                                                           i                   Lake                                                                                                                 38°N
                38°N
                                KHATLON                                                                        34                                                                                               18           r         Sarezskoye
                                                                                            29
                                                                                                                    Kulyab
                                                                                                                                   39                                                                                               s
                                 REGION                                                     32                                            42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ak
                                                                                       27 Kurgan-                        37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  su
                        To                                                                Tyube                                    41                                                                                                                             Alichur
                       Qarshi
                                                                              24           30                                 Moskovskiy
                                                             22                                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                   Garavuti                                    35                                                                                                                                                   Pamir
                                                                                        28                                                                                                 Khorog
                                                                      23                              33
                                                        Shahrtuz                      26
                                                                                                         Pyanj
                                                                      h
                                                                    Vakhs




                                                        21                                                                                                                               Andarob                       Pik Karl Marx
                                                                                         To                                                                                                                              (6723 m )
                                                                                       Baghlan                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vrang                                                                                                                           GSDPM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Map Design Unit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nj
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                           Ishkashim
                        0       20        40      60      80 Kilometers
                                                                                                                 AF GHA NISTA N
FEBRUARY 2014




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 40732
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                        0            20            40              60 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                         68°E                                                                           70°E                                                              72°E                                                                         74°E
