                                                                                                                   93830
                                                                                                              July 30, 2012

Basic Education Accessible for All Tajiks
Dilya Zoirova, Communications Associate in the World Bank
Tajikistan Office, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Every morning Tohirov Abdurahmon and his youngest
daughter Omina head out for school # 15 of Hissar District in
Tajikistan, about 30 kilometers from the capital city of
Dushanbe. Abdurahmon goes there to teach social studies
and history, while Omina joins her high school classmates to
learn. The place where father and daughter spend their days
has recently changed for the better: gone are cracks in the
walls and leaks in the roof.

Almost 50 schools in the country have been similarly repaired      Related Links
and upgraded as part of the EFA Fast Track Initiative
Catalytic Fund Grants administered by the World Bank. The          The World Bank in Tajikistan
grants support implementation of the country's education           Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund
strategy to increase access to better education in places and      Grant 3
with materials that are more conducive and welcoming for           Project snapshot
students to learn.
                                                                   Global Partnership for Education's
                                                                   Catalytic Fund
                         Tajikistan aims to deliver better
                         education by fixing rundown schools      Ministry of Education of Tajikistan
                         and supplying them with furniture and
                         basic equipment. In addition, new textbooks and educational materials are
                         being printed. Teachers and principals receive additional training and
                         qualifications, while school management and financing has been reformed. Per
                         capita financing has been introduced nationwide along with an education
                         management information system.
Tohirov Abdurahmon
                        School #15 was rebuilt two years ago. Two buildings, 15 classrooms, the library,
the computer classroom, and restrooms were repaired and upgraded. Desks, chairs and other furniture
were also replaced. Abdurahmon notes that these changes have already had positive effects. "In
previous years, our school was in really bad shape, but after the reconstruction the environment both
outside and inside the school is pleasant. Of course, this positively affects the kids' desire to study."

                          More work remains to be done. A few kilometers away, school #56 of Hissar is
                          not even a recognizable schoolhouse. Instead, there is a dilapidated structure
                          where cracked walls and a leaky roof are longstanding problems that let in the
                          harsh Tajik winter weather. Things are especially tough for second graders,
                          whose classes are taught in a room reminiscent of a shack. However, the grim
                          situation is about to change. This school has been selected to receive a new
                          building. Once construction of the new building is completed by mid 2012, it will
                          have 12 classrooms, a computer classroom, a teacher's lounge, new desks,
Odil, Second Grade
Student
                          chairs and other furniture. Also, one of its most important new features will be
                          the boiler room, a necessity for heating during the cold winter months. Odil, a
second grader at this school, is very enthusiastic about the upcoming changes as they would provide
him with basic tools to succeed in the future. "Once my school becomes better and nicer, I will study
hard and become an important person in the future," exclaims Odil standing nearby ongoing
construction, which is in full swing despite the cold weather.

                         Several teachers from this particular school have already taken a course in
                         modern education methods. Boboyev Orziqul, a physics teacher, was one of
                         them: "We have gone through an interactive training course, which helped us
                         significantly. It is aimed at using methods of actively engaging students'
                         participation. We have gone through a total of 164 hours of training and now are
                         employing these methods in our school."

                         It is expected that by the end of 2012, these grants will have helped build and
Boboyev Orziqul          rehabilitate a total of 75 schools and published 1.6 million textbooks and study
                         materials. Almost 4300 teachers and 1100 school principals will have had
training in various updated methods of teaching and management.

Education is one of the most vital tools for development, prosperity and growth. Thus, through investing
in education, Tajikistan is investing in one of its most valuable assets—its human capital. As Tajikistan
contributes to the development of its young and growing population, it is also investing in its future
growth and the well-being of its society at large.
