Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.19944
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
February 8, 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal (April 1994)
S$1.00     =  DZD23.50
DZD1.00   =  US$0.4255
SDR1.00   =  US$1.38107
Year       Annual Average
1994         DZD35.059
1995        DZD47.663
1996        DZD54.753
1997        DZD57.707
1998        DZD58.739
1999        DZD62.995
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANN         Agence Nationale pour la Conservation de la Nature
BAD         Algerian Development Bank
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
DG          Director-General
El          Environmental Inspectorate of the Wilaya
EKNP        El Kala National Park
EKPIU       El Kala Project Implementation Unit
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GIS         Geographic Infonnation System
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
SDRs        Special Drawing Rights
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:                Kemal Dervis
Director, Maghreb Unit:        Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:               Doris Koehn
Sector Manager:                Salah Darghouth
Task Manager:                  Aline Cabal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
Evaluation Summary ............................................ .                                 i-iv
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................2
(i) Objectives                                          .2
(ii) Major achievements                                     .3
(iii) Major f-actors affecting the project                         .3
(iv) Project sustainability                                  .5
(v) Bank performance                                       .5
(vi) Borrower performance                                    .6
(vii)  Assessment of outcomes ......................6
(viii) Future operation ......................7
(ix) Replicability ..7...................7
(x)  Key lessons learned .....................7
PART 11 - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................                                       :          10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .1
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .13
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .15
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................                         18
Table 8B: Project Financing ..................................................                     19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................           19
Table 10: Status of Covenants ..................................................                   20
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Guidelines ........................ .......................... 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................. 21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................. 21
APPENDIX A-BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................................ 22-31
APPENDIX B-ICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE ...................                 ............................... 33-36
MAP C-IBRD No. 24763R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PLAN
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Grant to prepare and implement
Management Plan of the El Kala National Park and Wetlands Complex. The Grant, provided through the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in an initial amount of SDR6.7 million (US$9.2 million), was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on April 29, 1994 and became effective on September 13,
1994.
The Grant was closed on June 30, 1999 following two extensions of the original closing date of
March 31, 1997. Final disbursement took place on December 14, 1999. An amount of SDR1.47 million
(US$2 million) was cancelled, reducing the Grant to SDR5.23 million. Therefore, disbursements totaled
US$5.06 million, or 69 per cent of the revised loan amount.
The ICR was prepared by Aline Cabal, Operations Analyst, Rural Development, Water and
Environment Group, MNSRE, Middle East and North Africa Region, and was reviewed by Salah
Darghouth, Sector Manager, Water and Environment; and Kutlu Somel, Economist, MNSRE. Additional
reviewers included Christophe Crepin for the GEF; Marisa Femandez-Palacios, Portfolio Manager,
MNCMG; and Thu-Ha Nguyen of the Disbursements Division. Valuable historical details, observations,
and information were provided by Laurent Msellati, the Project Officer during the project preparation
phase and the early stages of implementation. Syvie Creger provided the administrative support required
for completing of the report.
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is contained in Appendix A.
The ICR is based on infornation from project files, interviews in the field with officers responsible
for project assessment and monitoring, and information gathered by the project completion mission,
which took place from September 29 to October 13, 1999. The mission team consisted of Aline Cabal,
Operations Analyst, Mission Leader, and two consultants, Slimane Bedrani, agricultural economist, and
Salah Khemissi, financial analyst.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Two important facts which impacted the implementation of this project are, first, that the project
was prepared during the 1991-1994 pilot phase of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), when its
mechanisms were being established and its procedures and criteria were less clearly defined, and second,
that the project was implemented during a difficult period for Algeria characterized by civil unrest.
Today, the situation has improved and there is hope that the original project development objective, the
sustainable protection of El Kala Park, will be achieved through perseverance.
Overall, the project objectives have been only partially achieved. Despite two extensions of the
original Grant closing date and the efforts of project staff in the field, the delays that affected all project
components from the outset were continued to plague the project until the final closing date. Certain
actions produced positive impacts; however, those impacts fall short of the project objectives because
those actions alone were not enough to either: (i) halt the degradation of biodiversity in the El Kala
National Park and Wetlands Complex; or (ii) provide a reliable natural resources management model for
the country's protected areas. The El Kala Management Plan, which was to have served as a benchmark
and model for the management of other national parks has not yet been finalized. However, the project
has clearly created the necessary awareness of the need to finalize the management plan as well as the
momentum necessary to implement its recommendations. It is too early to tell whether the Plan has laid
the foundations for long-term financial, environmental and socioeconomic viability, since that will
depend on adoption of the measures therein recommended.
Project objectives and components
Project objectives. The Grant's three objectives were: (a) mitigation of the degradation of
biodiversity in the El Kala National Park and Wetlands Complex region; (b) establishment of a
methodology and procedures to be followed at the Wilaya level for conducting environmental impact
assessment studies; and (c) development of a natural resources management model for the country's other
parks. The project was to introduce measures for the long-term sustainable preservation of sites in the
region exposed to the pressure generated by groups living in and around the Park, which has an
ecological and biological diversity that is of critical importance for the entire Mediterranean basin.
Project components.  The project comprised five components:  (a) Preparation of the
management plan for the El Kala region wetlands complex, through baseline studies, priority actions to
stop further degradation and others to be carried out during execution of the management plan;
(b) environmental monitoring and adaptive research, through introduction of a geographic
information system (GIS), establishment of an environmental impact assessment unit and a subcomponent
for environmental research, and assessment of natural resource development potential in different
subsectors; (c) environmental education, to sensitize the population to environmental problems, with



ii
NGO support; (d) institutional strengthening, focused on the National Agency for the Conservation of
Nature (ANN), the Wilaya Environmental Inspectorate, and the El Kala Project Implementation Unit
(EKPIU); and (e) creation of a conservation fund.
Implementation experience and results
Project objectives. The three project objectives were only partially achieved, despite two
extensions of the closing date and downward revision of the objectives at mid-term: (a) the degradation
of biodiversity has not been halted, and while certain sites have been saved as a result of the project, no
long-term solutions have been integrated into the Park's Management Plan for sustainable development;
(b) environmental impact assessment procedures, while in place for certain activities, have not always
proved effective; and (c) a model that would serve as a basis for the development of other parks was also
not produced. The overall assessment of the outcome of the project has been therefore rated as
unsatisfactory.
Project impact. (a) Although a number of the steps required for preparation of the management
plan had been completed by the closing of the Grant, the document of the plan itself has not been issued.
There has been an improvement in the ecological status of certain particularly risk-prone sites, thanks to
reinforcement of dikes, cleaning of run-off ditches, construction of wastewater settling tanks, and
preservation of the Barbary deer; (b) The environmental monitoring and adaptive research component
has boosted scientific research about the Park, thanks to participation by university teachers and students
in studies and to the establishment of biological conservation plots; (c) Environmental education has
sensitized communities and local authorities to environmental problems, through studies and other related
activities and through the creation of jobs in a region where unemployment is widespread and endemic;
(d) Institutional strengthening of EKNP, ANN, and El Tarf Wilaya's Environmental Directorate and
Forest Conservation Agency has made the representatives of the central authorities more aware of
environmental problems, particularly in the El Tarf region; and (e) Conservation fund activities have had
a positive impact on the participation of local NGOs and communities.
Project sustainability. Project sustainability is uncertain. It will depend mainly on four factors:
(a) Ministry of Agriculture commitment to continuing all project actions funded under the national budget
and to pressing ahead with finalization of the management plan; (b) the extent to which the Park
management agency's field units and its reputation in the Wilaya are strengthened as a result of the
project; (c) the degree of ecological awareness shown by the Wali of El Tarf, given his key role in
implementing and enforcing regulations governing his region; and (d) the degree of active interest from
university faculty and students in the region is reflected in the Park, where research facilities will be
established. Long-term sustainability will also be tied to EKNP's capacity to cover some or all of the
Park's operating costs. Unfortunately, the study of recurrent costs called for in the project plans did not
materialize due to the absence of recommendations that were to be part of the Park management plan.
Finally, it is still too early to know whether the long-term financial, environmental and socioeconomic
viability of the project can be assured, since this will depend on adoption of the measures recommended
in the management plan.
Bank performance. The Bank's performance was marginally unsatisfactory. Project institutional
design at appraisal should have been based, from the outset, on more flexible approaches, such as the use
of local consultants for day-to-day monitoring, and a longer implementation period. Project scheduling
was too ambitious, given the prevailing security situation and the scope and scale of the studies required.
A 14-month period was too short for implementation of the Park management plan, prepared by a foreign
consulting firm and executed by an agency lacking qualified and experienced personnel. Security issues,
which arose after project effectiveness, precluded any field visits for more than three years. The absence



iii
of regular Bank supervision missions, the lack of certain expertise on the supervision teams, failure to
abide by original supervision schedules, and the need to delegate supervision missions to local consultants
also disrupted sound project implementation. The belated restructuring of the project, the absence of any
system for periodic and systematic review of study findings, the hope that the management plan would
eventually be produced, the impossibility, at times, of obtaining reliable data from executing entities, and
the fact that there were three project managers in succession, all contributed to the lack of prompt
decisions that might have improved project management performance.
Borrower performance. The Borrower's performance was also mixed. It was satisfactory during
preparation and appraisal, but, for a number of reasons, fell short during implementation. Those reasons
include:  (a) frequent turnover of senior-echelon staff, which impaired the quality of project
administrative and financial management; (b) difficulties in maintaining necessary teams in the field for
implementing a totally decentralized project; (c) lack of autonomy for the Project Implementation Unit
vis-a-vis EKNP and ANN headquarters in Algiers; (d) poor performance of the inter-ministerial
monitoring coordination committees; (e) poorly planned allocation and improper use of human and
material resources; (f) recurring Bank difficulties in obtaining reliable data; (g) difficult relations with
consulting firms, especially over tracking of payments and progress with studies; and (h) slow pace of
execution of certain activities.
Future operation and key lessons learned
Future operation. The Government intends to pursue funding the activities, started under the
project, from the Ministry of Agriculture budget. The fact that the project was innovative in the areas of
understanding biodiversity loss, the study of the complex interrelationships between species, and ensuring
that various concerned parties assume responsibility for preventing further biodiversity loss, bolsters the
argument that action taken so far should be continued. The investment made to date will prove of little
long-term value unless the management plan of the Park is fully completed and put successfully into
effect. Once the plan has been discussed by all parties concerned and validated by the Inter-ministerial
Committee, its recommendations will need to be analyzed and the financial and other means to implement
them mobilized. It is only when these conditions are met that external support for a follow-up operation
for the El Kala Park could be considered.
Replicability. As Algeria begins to formulate its national biodiversity strategy, its experience with
El Kala would provide assistance towards developing: (a) management plans for other parks, especially
Tassili and Hoggar, where programs scheduled to start in 2000 will involve Project Implementation
Unit staff, as well as university faculty and students who worked on the El Kala project studies; (b) a
biodiversity action plan; and (c) plans for the development of the three reserves that were the subject of a
request for US$2 million submitted to the Global Environment Facility through UNDP.
However, in future, if the GEF, the Bank and other donors are to be persuaded to fund programs of
his type, project design will need to take account of the institutional constraints that the project faced,
especially as regards implementation procedures, and quality of monitoring systems. In particular,
mechanisms will have to be put in place to ensure that funds reach beneficiaries quicker so that suppliers
can be paid and operations schedules adhered to strictly.
Key lessons learned
* When a country's internal situation makes it impossible to conduct procurement proceedings
under optimum competitive conditions, large-scale technical assistance contracts should not



iv
be put up for bid. Instead, advantage should be taken of the flexibility afforded by short-term
purpose-specific missions and maximum recourse to local capabilities.
* When a country's internal socio-political situation is difficult, appropriate project
organization and management methods of supervision should be sought by the Bank.
* It is essential to do an in-depth evaluation of the administrative and financial management
capacity of any executing agency for implementing a Bank-financed project for the first time.
It is also essential to ensure that the supervisory ministry is committed to supporting the
agency, which may be unfamiliar with both World Bank and local administrative procedures,
and to limit turnover among the agency's senior staff.
* Allowances need to be made in project planning and implementation for the possibly slow
pace and complex nature of the borrowing country's financial and administrative procedures,
so that bureaucratic entanglements do not undermine achievement of project objectives.
* Team stability, especially at senior staff levels, and reliability of communications systems are
essential for effective technical and project-management decision-making, particularly in a
difficult operating environment. Team members need access to essential equipment from the
outset of the project, and if necessary to prompt training in its optimum use.
* As it is now the practice for all Bank-financed operations, a project needs to establish and
evaluate the essential indicators that will be used to monitor its impact.
* In the best interests of environmental protection, supervision through national, regional and
local entities must be recognized as important and put on a systematic basis.
- In order to promote participation at the local level, project arrangements need to include
provision for early demonstration actions to ensure community support for the proposed
project activities.
• It is imperative to ensure before loan signature that the necessary legal arrangements are in
place to enable equipment intended for NGOs to be made available to them promptly.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    Objectives. The Grant had three objectives: (i) mitigation of the degradation of biodiversity in
the El Kala National Park and Wetlands Complex region; (ii) establishment of a methodology and
procedures to be followed at Wilaya level for conducting environmental impact assessment studies; and
(iii) development of a natural resources management model suited to densely populated protected areas.
The project aimed at preparation and implementation of a management plan for the Park and the
neighboring wetlands with a view to combating the environmental degradation of this sensitive zone and
preserving the Park and its environs through ecological, economic and sociocultural measures that would
ensure sustainable development of the zone. The El Kala region was selected because of its exceptional
ecological and biological diversity, which makes it of critical importance for the entire Mediterranean
region. The management plan was to preserve and maintain the region's unique sites, which are
endangered and at risk of severe degradation owing to mounting demographic pressure. The project was
to develop measures for the long-term sustainable preservation of the sites in the region exposed to
pressure generated by groups living in and around the Park. It was also intended to be a pilot operation,
suitable for replication in other regions of the country.
2.    Components. The project comprised five components:
*  Preparation of a management plan for the El Kala region wetlands complex (US$7.8 million)
through: (i) baseline studies; (ii) priority actions to stop further degradation; and (iii) other
actions to be carried out during execution of the management plan;
*  Environmental monitoring and adaptive research (US$670,000), covering: (i) introduction of
a geographic information system; (ii) establishment of an environmental impact assessment
unit and a subcomponent for environmental research; and (iii) investigation of natural
resource development potential in different subsectors;
*  Environmental education (US$850,000), to sensitize the population to environmental
problems, and boost the work of nongovernmental organizations;
*  Institutional strengthening (US$2.37 million), focused on ANN, the Wilaya Environmental
Inspectorate, and the El Kala Project Implementation Unit, and
*  Creation of a El Kala Park conservation fund.



2
3.    Contributions. Despite the difficulties that complicated its implementation, the project made it
possible to: (i) put the management of El Kala National Park on a firm foundation; (ii) develop local
capabilities in natural resource management and environmental impact assessment; (iii) develop a
biodiversity benchmarking technique, thanks to the numerous studies made; (iv) develop a solid
partnership with universities and associations (NGOs and others) in the region; (v) develop an
environmental education and sensitization program targeting local stakeholders, particularly schools; and
(vi) carry out urgent biodiversity conservation actions to halt extremely harmful degradation processes.
4.    Implementation arrangements. The project was implemented and administered by Agence
nationale pour la conservation de la nature (ANN), within the limits of its powers and under the
supervision of the Interministerial Committee created by Ministerial Order of December 29, 1991. This
committee, made up of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Interior, Infrastructure, and
Economy, and of the State Secretariat for Research and the National Planning Council, was charged with
monitoring progress with of the El Kala ecosystem development project. The Project Implementing Unit
(EKPIU), which reports to ANN and was specially created on October 30, 1993 to manage the project,
was made responsible for preparation and implementation of the management plan, procurement of the
equipment required, human resource management, financial control, coordination between the Wilaya and
the El Kala Park management agency, and monitoring and evaluation. Implementation arrangements
required the Beneficiary to respect the principles of the Ramsar Convention and the UNESCO Action
Plan, strengthen the staff of the Wilaya Environmental Inspectorate, and increase the number of forest
guides.
5.    Cost and financing. The Beneficiary received a project preparation advance of SDR 84,600. At
appraisal, the project financing plan envisaged a Grant from the Global Environment Facility of US$9.2
million and a contribution of US$2.48 million from the Government to cover the reasonable cost of
project supplies and services. A special account of US$500,000 was opened. The project was scheduled
for completion in March 1997. However, the Bank consented to two extensions of the Grant closing date,
the first of six months, and the second of twelve months. A third request by the Algerian Government for
a flrther six-month extension of the closing date was rejected by the Bank. The project was accordingly
closed on June 30, 1999. In December 1998, in response to a request from the Government, the Bank
also canceled SDR 1.4 million (about 20% of the amount of the Grant) and restructured project
expenditure category allocations to reflect the fact that less financing was, needed because the
management plan had not materialized.
6.    At the time of negotiations, it was anticipated that the main obstacle to on-schedule
implementation of the project would be difficulty in recruiting technical assistance personnel to take part
in preparation of the management plan, given international consulting firm uncertainty regarding the
internal situation in Algeria.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
(i)    Objectives
7.    Project objectives were only partially achieved. On one hand, the operation did result in urgent
biodiversity conservation actions to halt the degradation processes, formulation (though not completion)
of the El Kala Park management plan, and some strengthening of institutional infrastructure, equipment,
and human resources. On the other hand, the Park management plan that was to guide implementation of
the project did not materialize, despite two extensions of the project closing date designed to enable the
group of consulting firms engaged in preparing it to finalize the necessary studies and deliver their
summary and recommendations. This situation was largely the outcome of a political state of affairs,
which made international mission entry into the country a daunting prospect. In the end, the preparation



3
of the plan was carried out by one single consulting firm, selected from only two bids; it was the only
bidder prepared to send experts to Algeria. During the mid-term review, an interim solution to have a
provisional management plan prepared by local consultants was adopted; however, they were not able to
complete the work started by the bidder. Following a supervision mission in June 1998, in view of the
failure to produce the management plan, the Bank and ANN agreed that the project objectives as defined
during the preparation phase had to be revised downward: given the low level of disbursement activity, it
was considered that project plans could not be completed in accordance with the original schedule.
(ii)    Main achievements
8.    The main outcome of the project was to produce a management plan for El Kala National Park.
When the foreign consulting firm failed to produce this plan as originally intended, a provisional plan was
prepared by a team of local university staff based on knowledge to hand at that time, and was delivered at
the end of June 1998. This led to extension of the Grant Agreement to June 30, 1999, by which date no
finalized management plan had been delivered by the consultants. Out of the fifteen baseline studies that
were to serve as the basis for the plan, only three had been completed, while two others had either not
been completed or were barely started. In the case of the studies on subsector natural resource
development potential, they were unsatisfactory, being limited to inventories and to summary comments
on possibilities identified. On the other hand, the results of the study work performed by local consultants
were relatively satisfactory. The priority actions, some identified in the Appraisal Report and others
decided on in the course of the project, should have been more substantial, and more quickly
implemented, in particular rehabilitation works, since these were activities independent of the
management plan.  Viewed overall, the achievements of this component have to be considered
unsatisfactory, since civil engineering works at various sites had not been completed by the project
closing date, and some had not even been started. Project achievements in environmental research,
training, and education must also be considered unsatisfactory by comparison with the initial project
objectives. The project did however achieve some of its institutional strengthening objectives. ANN
benefited from the equipment procured under the project, and the EKPIU has benefited from the
experience gained through its monitoring and management of the project. The Wilaya Environmental
Inspectorate is vested with the powers that will give it a fundamental role, in conjunction with the Park
administration, in the future preservation of the Park's natural resources. The creation of a conservation
fund has had a positive impact on the participation of local NGOs and communities.
(iii)   Major factors affecting the project
9.    Project design. Project implementation plans were based on two optimistic assumptions, which
did not materialize. The conditions required for smooth execution of the operation never existed, chiefly
because of the country's security problems at the time. The project envisaged development objectives
that were unlikely to be achievable in three years, given the implementing entities' limited capacity for
managing projects of such magnitude. The technical assistance with implementation and supervision that
was to offset this risk could not be provided on a constant basis in the field, although recognized as key
for the project success. Given the complexity and scale of the studies to be made, it was also optimistic to
envisage finalization of an operational management plan within a fourteen-month period: the international
consulting firm that was to perform the work had not yet been selected, and systems for coordinating
review of the studies and for consensus-building consultations with all stakeholders had yet to be set up.
In hindsight, the decision to award a contract of such size for all of the studies to a firm lacking
international experience and with limited linguistic capabilities entailed supplementary risks. In the
circumstances that prevailed, this company was unable to deliver the management plan by the time set,
given the impossibility of obtaining complete data, the cancellation of missions or their postponement to
indefinite dates, the unavailability or lack of motivation of consultants, problems with payment of



4
suppliers, conflicts with the local representative, and difficulties in maintaining communication with
ANN.
10.   At the project design level, certain conditions should have been better defined before the project
was actually started. In the case of institutional arrangements in particular, steps should have been taken
to: (a) transfer the prerogatives of execution directly to the project teams; (b) appoint the project manager
with due assurances as to his level of authority in the project hierarchy, especially as regards discussions
and decision-making, (c) set up mechanisms to enable the NGOs to function as specified in the Appraisal
Report and benefit from the equipment intended for them; and (d) establish effective systems to ensure
that the environmental impact assessment unit had a recognized role in the review of all environmental
decisions.
11.   In addition, the failure to provide for monitoring of results disrupted the smooth progress of the
project, since it had been decided that the key indicators necessary for tracking project impact would be
established once the ranagement plan had been drawn up, which, as mentioned above, did not
materialize.
12.   Factors beyond government control. The main factor affecting the project was the general
security situation in Algeria throughout the implementation period. From the outset, this complicated the
hiring of an international consulting firm prepared to send its experts into the field, increased the cost of
essential studies, and interfered with the hiring of two expatriates, one to assist the manager of the Project
Implementation Unit and the other the Algerian administrative and financial manager. The security
situation also precluded field missions by the Bank staff responsible for the project, a problem only
partially offset first by meetings at the Bank's Paris office and later by relying on missions composed of
local consultants.
13.   Factors within government control. The following factors, connected with administrative
and banking matters, delayed project implementation significantly: (i) time-consuming procurement
procedures: (ii) the slow pace of disbursements by the Algerian Development Bank (BAD); (iii) delays in
paying suppliers and the complexity of foreign exchange regulations; (iv) the long lapse before a project
director was appointed by decree (as the Grant Agreement required); (v) staff turnover at the head of the
implementing agency (three directors during the project period); (vi) failure by the responsible ministry to
supervise ANN closely, and consequently to rectify a number of adverse situations promptly (systematic
use was not made of the entities that were to have brought cohesiveness to management of the Park - the
Interministerial Committee, the Wilaya Local Committee, and the Park Steering Committee); and (vii) the
absence of legal provisions governing the administration of assets acquired by NGOs.
14.   Factors within implementing agency control. There were a number of weaknesses at project
management level: (i) frequent changes of management staff and delays in confirming appointments;
(ii) initial centralization of all decisions at ANN headquarters in Algiers, entailing major delays in the
signing and execution of some contracts; (iii) slow decision-making on civil engineering works, and
unwarranted delays in start-up and execution of priority operations and works decided on after
restructuring of the Grant; (iv) regarding financial management, payment delays and failure to produce
clear financial statements regularly; (v) on the adminitrative front, under-qualified and under-trained
supervisory staff and poor management of physical resources, factors exacerbated by the centralized
decision-making arrangements; (vi) failure to hire a national consultant (provided for in the Appraisal
Report) to coordinate and summarize the required management plan preparatory studies; and (vii) failure
to fill the expatriate manager position with a national consultant, although Bank approval was given.



5
(iv)   Project sustainability
15.   Project sustainability is uncertain. It will depend chiefly on four factors: (a) Ministry of
Agriculture commitment to financing the project from national budget appropriations and to transferring
responsibility for project actions from ANN to the Park management agency, once project physical and
financial balance sheets have been drawn up (It follows that a new operation under Park management
control will be included in the FY2000 budget, with provision for direct financing of all actions under
way plus the new actions launched as part of implementation of the El Kala management plan. The total
appropriation needed to cover completion of the project and the new implementation schedule will
probably not be known before end December 1999, and once ANN balance sheets have been finalized).
(b) The extent to which the Park management agency's presence in the field and its reputation in the
Wilaya are strengthened by the project, since this will augur well for competent assumption by Park staff
of responsibility for preparation of the management plan, implementation of its recommendations, and
execution of priority works; (c) the degree of ecological awareness shown by the Wali of El Tarf, given
his key role in implementing and enforcing regulations governing his region; and (d) the degree of active
interest university faculty and students from El Tarf Wilaya and Annaba show in the Park. (The Park is
their special research domain and the construction of accommodation facilities for them can only
reinforce their willingness to work in conjunction with the Park management agency.) As regards the
long term, however, project sustainability will be tied to EKNP capacity to generate sufficient resources
to cover operating expenses at least partially. Unfortunately, the study on recurrent costs included in
project plans did not materialize, in the absence of the recommendations that were to be part of the
management plan. Finally, it is still too early to know whether the long-term financial, environmental and
socioeconomic viability of the project can be assured, since this will depend on adoption of the measures
recommended in the management plan.
(v)   Bank performance
16.   The Bank's performance was marginally unsatisfactory. As indicated in paragraph 10, the project
design should have been based from the outset on more flexible approaches, such as use of local
consultants for day-to-day monitoring, and longer implementation periods. The events that occurred after
project effectiveness, which precluded any field visits for over three years, were not foreseeable at the
preparation and appraisal stage, when Bank teams were able to move about the project zone without
restriction. The absence of regular Bank supervision missions was offset initially by meetings between
Bank and ANN teams in Paris, but when even these became impossible, a team of national consultants
made up of an economist, a biologist and a financial analyst was recruited to monitor the project at
regular intervals, paying special attention to progress with civil works and production of financial
statements. Meetings were then organized between Bank staff and these consultants, following each
mission, in order to produce joint reports. In the same way, the lack of interest displayed by foreign
consulting firms in participating in preparation of the management plan obliged the project managers to
work with a small company lacking international experience but which, during technical discussions at
the Bank's Paris office in 1995, had produced all the qualifications required and was the only one (of the
two bidders) to agree to send experts to Algeria. The lack of certain specializations on supervision teams
and failure to abide by original supervision schedules also disrupted sound project implementation. The
absence of any system for periodic and systematic review of study findings, the hope that the
management plan would eventually be produced, the impossibility at times of obtaining reliable data from
executing entities, and the fact that there were three project managers in succession, all probably
contributed to the failure to take prompt decisions that would have improved project management
performance. The project was restructured later than it should have been, mainly because of the time
needed for consultations. 'Whether or not to close the project" was the question the project team asked



6
itself throughout the implementation process. The decision to continue with the project, pending
finalization of the Park management plan, was always made on a partnership basis and treated as a
challenge by all the parties, aware that completion of the plan was fundamental for the biological and
ecological protection of the region.
(vi)   Borrower performance
17.   The Borrower's performance was mixed. It was satisfactory during project preparation and
appraisal, but fell short in the implementation phase.
18.   The Project Implementation Unit (EKPIU), a new agency created under the project, had to
contend, (as ANN, it was the case also for its supervisory agency), with a lack of continuity in
management which undermined the quality of project administrative and financial management. There
were many periods duling project implementation when nobody seemed to be in charge, making it
difficult to obtain reliable data. The role of the EKPIU vis-a-vis EKNP representatives at El Kala and
ANN headquarters in Algiers was ambiguous, and remained unclarified since each party's limits and
prerogatives were to be set in the management plan. The Interministerial Committee proved unwieldy
and ineffective as a coordinating mechanism, and did not meet systematically and regularly. Allocation
of human and material resources was slow, and the use made of them poor. On the financial side,
shortcomings in data quality and management led to difficulties in drawing up a final comprehensive
project financial statement: management records and accounts were scattered in various files and so did
not facilitate efficient, flexible tracking of the project or, ultimately, reconstruction of its financial
statements. There were also delays in payment of suppliers and consultants.
19.   It is regrettable that ANN did not put more pressure on the consultants responsible for the project
studies, and did not succeed in resolving payment problems with the signatories of the related
consultant's contract. ANN should also have been more consistently thorough in commenting on the
interim study reports delivered. The option of relying on an interim management plan produced by
university faculty and students should have been pursued.
20.   Certain instances of delay in executing works, conducting studies, organizing training courses,
and installing equipment cannot be justified, since project activities not dependent on finalization of the
management plan could have been completed without difficulty.
(vii)  Assessment of outcomes
21.   On the whole, the project development objective of bringing the stakeholders in local
development to a regional consensus around the theme of biodiversity conservation was largely achieved.
In terms of outcomes, on the other hand, the project was unsatisfactory, since numerous planned actions
did not go forward. For instance, the central project objective, namely reasonably early formulation and
introduction of a management plan for El Kala National Park, was not achieved, although most of the
requirements for formulation (baseline and subsector studies) seem to have been in place at the time the
Grant closed. No more than minimal progress was made in carrying out the environmental education and
training component of the project. Participation by local communities in management plan studies and
design work did not eventuate, a situation that could compromise future El Kala development activities.
22.   However, some not insignificant results were achieved in other spheres: (a) institutional
strengthening of EKNP, ANN, and El Tarf Wilaya's Environmental Directorate and Forest Conservation
Agency; (b) improvement in the ecological conditions of particularly risk-prone sites, such as
reinforcement of dikes, cleaning of run-off ditches, construction of wastewater settling tanks, and the
eminently successful preservation of the Barbary deer; (c) boosting of scientific research in connection



7
with the Park, thanks to participation by many university faculty members and students in the baseline
and subsector studies, and also to the establishment of numerous biological plots; (d) sensitization of
communities and local authorities to environmental problems in their areas, through the notable
momentum created by the project as a result of the studies and other activities associated with it;
(e) commitment on the part of the Government to continue funding all project components after the
closing of the Grant, clear evidence of the project's positive effect in making the central authorities more
aware of environmental problems, particularly in the El Tarf region; and (f) creation of jobs in a region
where unemployment is widespread and endemic.
(viii) Future operation
23.   The Govenunent intends to pursue funding the activities started under the project, from the
Ministry of Agriculture budget. The fact that the project was innovative with regard to how to understand
the problems of biodiversity, how to study their complex interrelationships in a coherent way, and how to
ensure that the various concerned and/or interested parties assume responsibility for them, serves as an
argument for continuation of the action taken so far. However, the investments made so far will prove
worthless unless the management plan is completed and put into effect. Once the plan has been discussed
by all parties concemed and validated by the Interministerial Committee, its recommendations will need
to be analyzed and the means to implement them mobilized.
(ix)   Replicability
24.   The experience gained at El Kala will be of fundamental importance in the formulation of:
(a) management plans for the other parks, especially Tassili and Hoggar, where programs scheduled to
start this year will involve Project Implementation Unit staff and university faculty and students who
worked on the El Kala study and appraisals; (b) a biodiversity action plan; and (c) plans for the
development of the three reserves the subject of a request for US$2 million just submitted to the Global
Environment Fund through UNDP.
25.   In the future, if the GEF, the Bank, and other donors are to be persuaded to fund programs of this
type, project design will need to fit in with the country's constraints, especially as regards program
preparation, implementation procedures, and quality of monitoring systems. In particular, mechanisms
will have to be put in place to ensure that funds reach beneficiaries quicker so that suppliers can be paid
and operations schedules adhered to strictly.
(x)  Key lessons learned
*  When a country's intemal situation makes it impossible to conduct procurement proceedings
under optimum competitive conditions, large-scale technical assistance contracts should not
be put up for bid. Instead, advantage should be taken of the flexibility afforded by short-term
purpose-specific missions and maximum recourse to local capabilities.
*  When a country's intemal socio-political situation is difficult, appropriate project
organization and management methods of supervision should be sought by the Bank.
* It is essential to do an in-depth evaluation of the administrative and financial management
capacity of any executing agency for implementing a Bank-financed project for the first time.
It is also essential to ensure that the supervisory ministry is committed to supporting the
agency, which may be unfamiliar with both World Bank and local administrative procedures,
and to limit turnover among the agency's senior staff.



8
*  Allowances need to be made in project planning and implementation for the possibly slow
pace and complex nature of the borrowing country's financial and administrative procedures,
so that bureaucratic entanglements do not undermine achievement of project objectives.
*  Team stability, especially at senior staff levels, and reliability of communications systems are
essential fo:r effective technical and project-management decision-making, particularly in a
difficult operating environment. Team members need access to essential equipment from the
outset of the project, and if necessary to prompt training in its optimum use.
* As it is now the practice for all Bank-financed operations, a project needs to establish and
evaluate the essential indicators that will be used to monitor its impact.
*  In the best interests of environmental protection, supervision through national, regional and
local entities must be recognized as important and put on a systematic basis.
*  In order to promote participation at the local level, project arrangements need to include
provision for early demonstration actions to ensure community support for the proposed
project activities.
*  It is imperative to ensure before loan signature that the necessary legal arrangements are in
place to enable equipment intended for NGOs to be made available to them promptly.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES



10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial Partial    Negligible  Not applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                        /
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives               =X=
Public sector management                        V
Private sector development                       =
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability          Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
I ]1[
Highly
C. Bank performance                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision (1)
HJighly
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance                    =                   
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                Highly
E. Assessment of outcomes     satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
(1) Difficult to accomplish because Bank staff was not permitted to visit the project area and it
was difficult to organize consultations.



11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan Name/Number                  Purpose                    Year of          Status
Approval
2809-AL:            New irrigation infrastructure in 8,000 ha in  1987        Closed
Cheliff Irrigation  the upper Cheliff valley and rehabilitation              12/1994
Project             of 3,000 ha in the lower Cheliff region to
increase income and social welfare of
families living in the project zone.
3009-AL:            Strengthen the Bank for Agricultural and  1988            Closed
Agricultural credit    rural Development (BADR) by providing                 06/1994
financing for agricultural equipment,
technical assistance, and training.
3017-AL:            Support for Algeria's locust control      1988            Closed
Locust control      program                                                  12/1991
3076-AL:            Increase agricultural production by       1989            Closed
Mitidja Irrigation  irrigating an additional 14,000 ha in the                12/1996
Project             west Mitidja plain
3216-AL:            Launch the reform of the national research  1990          Closed
Research and        system and test new approaches to                        12/1996
Extension           extension services for agricultural
cooperatives
3405-AL:            Renovation of oases in the southern Sahara  1991          Closed
Sahara Regional     and development to promote agriculture                   06/1998
Development Project  through institutional strengthening,
technical assistance, and training
3487-AL:            Develop a long-term action plan to        1992            Closed
Pilot Forestry and  improve protection and management of                     12/1998
Watershed           Algeria's natural resources, including its
Management Project  forests, watersheds, and conservation areas
3690-AL:            Support for Algeria's locust control      1994            Closed
Locust control      program                                                  12/1997
4143-AL:            Create and promote sustainable             1997          Ongoing
Rural Employment    employment in rural areas



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned         latest estimate
Identification (Analytical summary ofthe project)                               Februaryl992
Preparation                                                                      April 1993
Appraisal                                                                         June 1993
Negotiations                                                                    January 1994
Board presentation                                                              April 29, 1994
Signing                                                                         May 6, 1994
Effectiveness                                               June 1994        September 13, 1994
Mid-term review                                          October 31, 1995       July 24, 1997
Date of restructuring                                                           June 30, 1998
Project completion                                      December 31, 1997       June30, 1999
Loan/credit closing                                        June 30, 1998       October 29, 1999
TABLE 4: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(Millions of US$))
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98    FY99/a    FYOO
Appraisal estimates    0.5     3.9     6.9     9.2/a       _        _
Actual                  -     0.47    0.74      2.60     3.16     3.42      5.06
Actual as % of                 12%     10%      28%      34%     37.2%      55%/6a
appraisal
Final disbursement                                                         12/14/99
date__                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
/a An amount of SDRI.47 million, equivalentto US$2 million, was canceled; disbursements at project
completion therefore equaled 69 per cent of the revised loan amount.



13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..                                          .. .     .. . .. .   ..,. . . .   .   ,.''.''?''...''.''.'.'   ..........'t 0  '00t
PRIORITY ACTIVITIES
1. Improved water management at Lake
Tonga
*  Installation of sluices             Unit         4                       2             50
*  Dam strengthening                   Unit          1                      1            100
*  Channel cleaning                    Unit          1                      1            100
*  Nesting areas                                               0            0
2. Protection of the lac des oiseaux site
*  Plantings                           Ha           5                       5            100
*  Dike                                Unit          1                      1            100
3. Protection of humid forests and
riverside forests
*  Fences                              Km          80                       0              0
*  Boundaries                          Unit       200                    200             100
4. Restoration of water exchanges      Unit        20                       0              0
5. Spring protection
*  Fences                              Km           15         0            0              0
*  Rehabilitation of water             Unit          1                      1            100
impoundment structures
*  Construction of troughs             Unit         8                       0              0
6. Protection of berrihane dune system
*  Wind-break                           Ha          0        100          100            100
*  Boundaries                          Unit       200                       0              0
*  Fence                               Km          20                       0              0
7. Establishment of forest boundaries                                                      0
8. Delimitation of reserves to be                                                          0
completely protected
9. Establishment of biological reserve  Unit         5                      7            140
areas
10. Protection of cultural sites       Unit          1                      1            100
11. Protection of the Barbary deer     Unit          1                      1            100
_"                     --
1. Fixation of the Messida dune        Unit          1                      1            100
2. Fixation of the Melloul dune        Unit          1                      0              0
3 . Replanting of dune areas                                                0              0
4. Arboreta regeneration               Unit          1                      1            100
5. Forest development                   Ha        200          0            0              0
6. Sand quarry regeneration            Unit                    1          0.3             30
7. Cork-tree regeneration               Ha         100                    100            100



14
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
The appraisal report did not provide any key indicators for project operation because it was felt that they
should be defined within the context of the management plan.



15
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
El  Infonnation on ecological processes of
wetlands
* Local consultants                           30             30      100           X
* International consultants                   05            05       100           X
E2. Biological and ecological inventories of
marine zones
* Local consultants                           20            20       100           X
* International consultants                   25             16       64           X
E3. Inventory of coral deposits
* Local consultants                           05            05       100           X
* International consultants                   00            00        00           X
E4. Use of tourist beaches
* Local consultants                           05            05       100            -
* International consultants                   00            00        00            -
E5. Inventory and management plan for
archeological sites
* Local consultants                           10            05        05            -
* International consultants                   00            00        00            -
E6. Procedure for incorporating adjacent
ecosystems in the Park
* Local consultants                            5              -         -           -
* International consultants
E7. Identification of a protected area project
* Local consultants                           12
* International consultants                                   -         -
E8. Hydrological studies of lakes
* Local consultants                           00            00        00
* International consultants                    10            10      100           X
E9. Monitoring of dune aquifers
* Local consultants                          PM               -         -
* International consultants                     -             -         -
E10. Diagnostic studies of wastewater
* Local consultants                           00            00        00
* International consultants                   06             06      100           X
El . Study on agricultural water use
* Local consultants                           14             14      100           X
* International consultants                   24             19       80           X
E12. Diagnosis of road system
* Local consultants                           08            08       100           X
* International consultants                   05            00        00
E13. Socioeconomic study of systems of
resource exploitation
* Local consultants                           10             10      100           X
* International consultants                    10            09       90           X
E14. Productivity survey and typology for stock
livestock rearing
* Local consultants                           10             00       00
* International consultants                   20             13       64
E15. Agropastoral study



16
* Local consultants                           00             00       00
* International consultants                    10            07       70           X
E16. Elaboration of a forest strategy
* Local consultants                           10             10      100           X
* International consultants                    10            10      100           X
E17. Quarry study
* Local consultants                           00            00        00
* International consultants                   08             06       75           X
E18. Preparation of a conservation plan for the
Barbary deer
* Local consultants                           00             00       00
* International consultants                    10            10      100           X
E19. Biological and ecological studies for
improving knowledge on environment
* Local consultants
* International consultants                   60             30       50
TOTAL A
* Local consultants                           134           103      76.8
* International consultants                  213            127      59.6
Olive oil
* Local consultants                             5             5      100           X
* International consultants                     5             0       00
Briar
* Local consultants                            4              4      100           X
* International consultants                     5             0       00
Cork trees
* Local consultants                            4              4      100           X
* International consultants                     5             0       00
Essential oils
-* Local consultants                           8              8      100           X
* International consultants                    8              4       00           X
Honey
* Local consultants                            4              4      100           X
* International consultants                     3             1       50           X
Wood
* Local consultants                          PM               -        -            -
* International consultants                  PM.              -         -           -
Hunting
* Local consultants                          PM               -         -
* International consultants                  PM               -         -
Study of ecotourism market
* International consultants                     6             4       67
TOTAL B
* Local consultants                           25             25      100
* International consultants                   32              9       28
Ass 1: Evaluation monitoring
* Local consultants                           00            00        00
* International consultants                    10            00       00
Ass2: Enviromnental education
* Local consultants                           00             00      100
* International consultants                   05             00       00
Ass3: Environmental planning
* Local consultants                           00             00       00
* International consultants                   07             00       00



17
Ass4: Database management
* Local consultants                             00             00        00
* International consultants                     03             01      33.3
Ass5: Envirounental legislation
* Local consultants                             00             04       100
* International consultants                     04             00        00
Ass 6: Human resources
* Local consultants                             08             08       100
* International consultants                     00             00        00
TOTAL C
* Local consultants                             29             01       3.8
* International consultants                     08             12       100
GRAND TOTAL
A+B+C
* Local consultants                            167            140      83.9
* International consultants                    274            137        50
PM= Pour memoire



18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest
Item                        (US$ 1000)               estimate (US$ 1000)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local*   Foreign   Total
currency    Costs            Currency   costs
A- National Park management plan
1. Baseline studies               327       762      1,089      776       887    1,663
2. Protected area management    2,819      1,906     4,725    2,385       254    2,639
3. Development and use of          68       134        202      111        15      126
Natural resources
B. Environmental monitoring and
research
1. Information management          32        32         64       83       214     297
2. Environmental impact           134       208        343       35        22       57
assistance
3. Research                        80        43        123       26         0       26
C. Environmental education           389       281        671        45       45       90
D. Institutional strengthening
1. DGANN                          164       356        520       93        81      174
2. El Kala Project Unit (EKPU)    335       333        668    1,542        95    1,637
3. Wilaya technical services      408       327        735      172       220      392
Physical contingencies               469       445        914
Financial contingencies             1,402      225       1,627
Projecttotal                       6,628      5,052    11,681    5,268*     1,833  7,101**
* Devaluations
** Project costs restructured in 1998



19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING la
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
SOURCES                                   (US$ 1000)                   (US$ 1000)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
currency   costs             currency   costs
GEF                                  3,352     5,052     8,404     2,191     1,833 4,024'b
GOVERNMENT                           3,275         0     3,275     3,077         0 3,077
TOTAL                                6,627     5,052    11,679    5,268      1,833 7,101
/a Estimates as of end of Septembre 1999
/b Not including disbursements between October and December 14, 1999. Total disbursements at closing date
amount to US$5.061 million.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Not applicable to GEF projects)



20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
,"  ....   ""jsii.i''5 _ .-- .............    . . . ..... .. .   .. ... . .                 .  s < .   .'X . .   . .   . . ... .. -................. Cg. .g...   
.                                                                                   . .    ,   .    , . 5.,   ,,,   a   t   ,5fi> .......... *,. .-.5, --. 1 .i-i- <,5, . -- >> 5ffi> 0 0 - 5 a 5 -5, - -5- 52 a *s 55 5 r> s, <, S 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....
Section 2.02    3           CP             .                         Payments to suppliers                         Delays in some payments have been registered
Section 2.02 (b) 3          C                                        Opening of a special account in the central bank Account opened in BAD
Section 3.01 (c) 10         C                                        Implementation of the Project with due        Deficiency at implementation level.
diligence and efficiency
Section 3.01 (b) 12         CP                                       hnplementation of the Project in accordance   The requirement in Schedule 4, section (d), was not met until 1998.
with the implementation program set forth in    The other schedules have been complied with.
Schedule 4.
Section 3.03 (a) 5          NC        6/30/95                        Zoning plan for EKNP to be furnished to the   The management plan to be prepared by the consultants was not ready by 1999.
Bank by 06-30-95.                             However, a locally prepared management plan was furnished in June 1998.
Section 3.05    9           CP                                       Provision of a semi-annual report to the Bank.   Semi-annual reports were often late. No report has been submitted yet for 1998.
Section 3.06    12          NC        10/31/95                       Preparation of a study onEKNP'srecuTent       The study has not yet been started.
costs by 31-10-95
Section 4.01,    1          CP                                       Provision of audit reports to the Bank        These reports have been provided only sporadically.
(b) ii
Section 4.01, (c) I         CP                                       Maintain accounts and audits                  Audits have been submitted late and accounts have not always been maintained.
Schedule 3,     13          CP                                       Procurement                                    Delays have occuned and files have been incomplete.
section I
Schedule 3,     13          CP                                       Employment of consultants                     Considerable difficulty encountered hiring international consultants (because of
section I                                                                                                          security concems).
Status:                                                                      3. Flow and utilization of project funds
C         -  Complied with                                                   4. Counterpart funding
CD        -  Compliance after delay                                          5. Management aspects of the project or executing agency
NC        -  Not complied with                                               6. Environmental covenants
SOON    -  Compliance expected in reasonably short time                      7. Involuntary resettlement
CP        -  Compliedwith partially                                          8. Indigenous people
NYD       -  Not yet due                                                     9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Project implementation
Covenant types:                                                            11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
1. Accounts/audits                                                        12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
2. Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries            13. Other



21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Number and Title of the Declaration              Description and Comments in case missing
OD 11.00: Procurement                            Delays in the bidding process and poor contract
management
OD 10.70: Monitoring                             Irregular monitoring
OD 12.00: Disbursements                          Delays in certain payments and in submission of
complete disbursement documentation to the Bank
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTa
Stage of project             Planned                  Revised                 Actual
cycle                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
cycle _______    Weeks                US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to           N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A        N/A         64.1
appraisal
Appraisal to Board       N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A        N/A        148
approval             I
Supervision                58.5      N/A          N/A         N/A        N/A        171
CompletionX 14                       35               -         -        N/A       N/A
TOTAL                   N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A                  N/A
/a Files were not maintained in this format; accordingly, the data are not available (N/A = not available)
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance ratina
Stage of project    MontW       Number  Days in    Specialized    Implementation   Development        Type of
cycle                year          of      field      staff skills     Status        Objectives      problemsc
persons             recognzede
Through appraisal    N/A         N/A       N/A          N/A
Appraisal through    N/A         N/A       N/A          N/A
Board approval
Supervision
1           August 1995      1         2           T               S               S             S, P
2            June 1996                              T               S              S             S,P,T
4            April 1997      2         20         B, E              S              S            M, P, S
5            Sept.1997       1         2            T              U               S          A,L,M,P, S
6            July 1998       3         47        B, E, F            S              S          A, L, M,P,S
7            Dec. 1998       1         5            B               S              S           A, M, P, S
8           March 1999       3         24        T, E, F           U               S           A, M, P, S
Completion        Nov. 1999        3        30         T, E, F
/a 1: No problem or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.
/b T: Project Officer ; E: Agricultural economist; F: Financial analyst.
/c A: Progress with technical assistance ; F: Availability of funds ; L: Compliance with legal covenants ; M: Project management
performance ; P: Progress with procurement; S: The security situation in Algeria; T: Progress with training.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
OCTOBRE 1999



23
I/INTRODUCTION:
Le projet de plan de gestion du Parc National d'El-Kala a caractere pilote A l'chelle internationale peut etre
considere egalement comme la premiere experience du genre en Alg&rie dans la mesure ou ii integre une multitude
de composantes environnementales, economiques, sociales, scientifiques, institutionnelles, educationnelle etc., a
realiser ou a suivre dans un cadre participatif par un grand nombre de parties prenantes concernees telles que les
institutions gouvemementales et non gouvernementales, les groupements socio-professionnels, les populations
citadines et rurales, etc.
Par la diversit6 de ses composantes et activites, son montage integratif, les difficultes de tous ordres auxquels il
a ete confronte et qui constituent une experience aussi int6ressante que les objets A atteindre de projet. Le Projet
peut etre consider6 comme une serieuse r6ference pour la planification future d'actions similaires, A condition
toutefois qu'une analyse detaillee de son deroulement soit menee pour tirer des enseignements applicables
necessaires.
2/ OBJECTIFS DUPROJET:
L'objectif premier et essentiel du projet etait de preparer et mettre en place un plan de gestion du parc national
d'El-Kala et du complexe des zones humides limitrophes ou ayant une interaction avec les milieux humides du
territoire du parc et ce, partant des necessites suivantes:
a/ Preservation et protection de la biodiversite existante.
b/ Conception d'un scenario d'eco-developpement a meme de repondre en permanence aux besoins des
populations locales et d'ameliorer le revenu de celles-ci.
La reponse A ces necessites qui peuvent etre considerees A priori comme contradictoires permettra de parvenir a
cr6er un interface d'equilibre permanent qui concilie ces deux aspirations.
3/METHODOLOGIE:
La demarche repose de maniere resum6e sur:
a/ Une analyse du contexte du milieu en general pour determiner son etat initial.
b/ La mise en place des dispositifs adequats de contr8le et de gestion rationnelle par application des
recommandations issues de l'analyse.
c/ Le recours immediatement A des actions prioritaires indispensables et urgentes telles que:
-  Le renforcement institutionnel;
-  Les dispositifs participatifs pour orienter toutes les energies vers la concretisation des objectifs
globaux.
-  Les actions de faible envergure pour freiner les degradations constatees afin que celles-ci n'atteignent
pas un degre d'irreversibilite.
-  La mise en ceuvre d'operations durables de formation et de sensibilisation.
d/ 1'elaboration d'un plan de gestion qui constituera un programme etale sur le long terme donc a meme de
perenniser l'action globale entreprise.
e/ La mise en ouvre d'un train de mesures et de r6alisations en premiere application du plan de gestion pour
assurer d'une part la continuite de l'couvre et d'autre part maintenir la cohesion des parties permanentes
concemres ou intdressees.
4/ COMPOSANTES DUPROJET
le projet est structure en composantes majeures et en sous-composantes dont les echeances de realisation sont
etalees dans le temps en fonction des priorites et des objectifs A atteindre.



24
1- Etudes et assistance technique
Elle se decomposent en quatre lots:
a/ Lot etudes de base: 11 comporte quinze domaines d'investigation en rapport avec les necessites de base du
parc national.
b/ Lot assistance technique : ce sont des interventions considerees comme essentielles car venant en appui a
toutes les etudes programmees.
c/ Lot etudes <<fi1ieres> : ce lot porte sur une meilleure connaissance des ressources naturelles exploitables et
de leur volume.
Cette composante <<tudes et assistance technique »> constitue une plate forme de connaissances a acquerir pour
asseoir le plan de gestion fonde sur la pr6occupation d'une gestion rationnelle et durable du milieu a concilier avec
le developpement socio-economique normal de a r6gion.
Cette composante a ete confiee pour sa realisation a un groupement de Bureau d'Etudes (etranger et national).
2- Etudes de connaissance du milieu.
Elles portent sur un eventail d'etudes concemant des << segments >> du milieu naturel en vue d'une approche
raisonnee et utilitaire de leurs fonctions, interrelations et integration dans le contexte general du parc.
Elles ont ete realisees par des consultants nationaux consideres comme des competences locales ayant une
relativement grande experience de la faune, la flore et des habitats locaux. Chaque 6tude devait aboutir a un
ensemble de constats et de recommandations A meme de g,n6rer des mini plans de gestion dont l'ensemble
s'int&gre dans le contexte general du plan de gestion global.
3- Actionsprioritaires
C'est un ensemble d' interventions physiques A realiser en toute pnrorite pour freiner certaines degradations ou
les prevenir.
Ces actions de petite envergure devaient etre un exemple a multiplier dans le cadre de l'execution du plan de
gestion definitif
4- Renforcement institutionnel
I1 compte plusieurs sous-programmes prevus pour consolider le soutien du projet dans son execution et
maitriser ulterieurement l'application du plan de gestion.
a/ Renforcement temporaire du parc national en personnel. Le proj et a constitue une voie de passage pour la
majorite du personnel du parc actuellement en fonction. II s'agit notamment d'ingenieurs, de garde-parcs, de
gardiens et de techniciens forestiers. L'int6gration de ce personnel s'est faite graduellement par l'administration du
parc en fonction des postes budgetaires alloues. Par ailleurs, le projet a ouvert la voie et ce, bien avant son
l'execution a l'implantation d'Unites de gestion delocalisees, veritables representations de l'administration sur le
territoire du parc. A ce titre le projet a pris en charge temporairement le personnel des Unites de gestion de
Bougous, Sidi-Kaci, Brabtia et Oum Teboul tout en intervenant pour que certaines de celles-ci disposent
localement de bureaux et d'equipements. b/ Renforcement indirect de l'Inspection de l'Environnement. Le projet a
contribue efficacement a sensibiliser les differentes tutelles pour l'operationalite de l'Inspection locale afin qu'elle
soit a meme de prendre en charge les problemes locaux d'ordre environnemental et intervenir efficacement en
appui a l'administration du parc. c/ Renforcement par la formation. Douze cadres du parc national et des secteurs
technico- administratifs de la Wilaya ont benefici6 d'une formation en France en etudes d'impact et ce dans le but
d'uie meilleure prise en charge de tous les projets de developpement envisages ou a realiser dans le futur par l'Etat
sur le territoire du parc ou ses zones limitrophes. d/ Renforcement en capacites infrastructurelles:
Dans le but de tisser un reseau efficace de prise en charge de l'execution des programmes fixes et en prevision
de l'application du plan de gestion ulterieur, le projet a realise ou fait realiser un lot d'infrastructures venant en
appui de l'ensemble des objectifs A atteindre dans les domaines de la protection et de la gestion rationnelle du



25
milieu, d'une meilleure connaissance de celui-ci ou de la sensibilisation des decideurs, populations ou autres
parties.
Ces infrastructures consistent notamment en:
-  l'implantation d'un nouveau siege pour l'administration du parc.
-  La realisation des 3 brigades de recherche et de surveillance sur les trois grands lacs principaux.
-  La refection de maisons forestieres abandonnees ou en ruines depuis plus de 40 ans pour assurer une
surveillance appropri6e de prevention de toute degradation naturelle ou anthropique.
-  La refection d'une maison d'h6te pour accueillir les etudiants, chercheurs ou scientifiques divers
travaillant sur le patrimoine du parc.
-  La participation par un financement partiel a la realisation de l'Unite de gestion de Bougous.
-  La mise en place d'un reseau de 5 piezometres supplementaires pour le suivi du flux hydraulique et des
nappes souterraines.
-   La realisation de 7 parcelles biologiques en vue d'une etude comparative du milieu dans le cadre du
suivi-evaluation environnemental.
-  La refection des reseaux de captage de 3 grandes sources d'alimentation en eau potable dans l'objectif
d'une sensibilisation des autorites et de la population sur les effets benefiques du projet.
-  La refection d'un centre de recherche biologique appartenant a l'Universite de Annaba puis la
r&alisation d'une structure nouvelle mieux adaptee et plus decente pour l'accueil de chercheurs et
d'etudiants.
Par ailleurs et parallelement des travaux d'am6nagement entrant dans les memes objectifs ont et6 realises
directement ou en collaboration avec les secteurs technico-administratifs concernes. II s'agit par exemple des
operations suivantes:
-  Mise en defens de parcelle et sites particuliers dans la zone dunaire de Berrihane.
-  Mise en place (operation a achever) de cinq postes d'observation dissemines sur les sites fragiles du
parc.
-  Curage du chenal de la Messida pour ameliorer les echanges d'eau entre le lac Tonga et la mer.
-  Installation d'un reseau d'alimentation en eau et d'un reseau d'assainissement pour une communaute
rurale dans le but de proteger le lac bleu de la degradation et de sa disparition a terme.
-  Implantation d'une decharge collective contr6lee pour les agglomerations d'EI-Kala, El Frine et Ain
El-Assel.
- RPalisation de deux fosses septiques (epuration gravitaire) pour eviter les rejets d'eaux usees dans les
lacs Tonga et Oubeira.
-  Realisation des infrastructures de base pour l'Association de protection de l'Environnement de la
wilaya d'El-Tarf par l'implantation d'une parcelle biologique a eriger en arboretum.
- Realisation de petites structures legeres pour le compte de l'Association du Camp des Jeunes du Tonga
dans un but de sensibilisation.
5- Equipements
Parmi les composantes, on peut egalement citer le volet relatif aux equipements, dont ont beneficie les parties
prenantes regionales et locales en vue de leur renforcement pour apporter leur soutien au projet.
-  Le parc national, la direction de l'Agriculture, la direction des Travaux Publics, la direction des Mines
et du Tourisme, la direction de l'Hydraulique, la Conservation des Forets, l'Inspection de
l'Environnement, la chambre de l'Agriculture ainsi que la Wilaya d'El-Tarf, ont beneficie d'une
dotation en vehicules.
-  L'Inspection de l'Environnement a ete dotee egalement d'une station de traitement d'imagerie satellite
(S.I.G.), de documentation, de materiel de reprographie de materiel informatique, de materiel
audiovisuel et d'observation.
- Les associations locales (ONGs) beneficient aussi par l'intermediaire des autorites administratives
locales d'un vehicule et de divers mat6riels necessaires a leurs activites.



26
Le siege de I'Agence Nationale pour la conservation de la Nature (A.N.N.) dans le cadre du suivi du contr6le et
d'appui financier au projet a beneficie d'un lot d'equipements et de materiels divers, notamment, vehicules,
materiel informatique et bureautique, d'une station S.I.G. et de documentation. a ete dote d'un important
equipement lui permettant d'exercer de maniere efficace le r6le qui lui est devolu. A ce titre, il a beneficie de
vehicules (liaison, VTT, contre feu, utilitaires, chevaux...), de materiel d'irrigation et de pompage, agro-forestier et
horticole, audiovisuel et d'observation, informatique, bureautique, reprographie, cartographie photo aerienne,
documentation d'une station G.I.S, station de traitement photographique.
6- Divers
A l'effet de donner la dimension necessaire au projet dans tous ses compartiments des actions relatives a des
sous-programmes de complementarite ont ete entamees ou realisees dans les domaines suivantes:
-  Suivi evaluation environnementale : un dossier programmu   a e  e1abore qu'il convient de mettre en
application pour s'assurer de lI'tat du milieu en general et en permanence.
-  Sensibilisation: une action a ete initiee par le projet en direction des decideurs, des ecoliers et des
populations citadines et rurales. Cette activite a e prise en charge des le milieu de l'annee 1996 par un
departement du parc prevu dans le cadre de la reorganisation de l'organigramme de l'administration du
PNEK.
Par ailleurs, un dossier programme etale sur le long terme a e  concu par l'UPEK et cede au PNEK pour
application:
-  Formation: des agents du PNEK ont re,u une formation sur les equipements acquis notamment
informatiques (utilisation de l'ordinateur et du GIS).
-  Deux stages ont egalement e  organises pour la formation d'agents d'observation ornithologique. Ont
benefici6 de ces stages des chercheurs, etudiants et agents venant de plusieurs regions du pays, du
PNEK, des universites locales et des ONGs.
-  Recherche developpement: des parcelles d'essai et de vulgarisation ont egalement e  realisees en
collaboration avec le concours d'agriculteurs locaux en vue de la vulgarisation de nouveaux creneaux
de production destines d'une part, a rompre avec les techniques traditionnelles de monoculture et
d'elevage et d'autre part, a augmenter le revenu des populations.
Ces parcelles d'experimentation mises en place devaient donner l'exemple et creer un effet d'entramnement
progressif.
5IMISE EN (EUVRE
Le demarrage du projet devait officiellement avoir lieu des la conclusion des negociations, c'est a dire en
janvier 1994 entre la Banque Mondiale et la partie algerienne. Toutefois et pour des imperatifs de procedures, les
echeances retenues ont connu des reports et des allongements relativement importants. Ces decalages ont affecte
principalement les actions sur lesquelles repose l'6laboration du plan de gestion.
Le rappel des dates ci-apres donne une idee de ces retards et de leurs causes essentielles:
-  N6gociation du Don: Janvier 1994,
-  Signature de l'accord de Don: Mai 1994,
-  Elaboration de la fiche technique globale juillet - aofit 1994.
-  Discussion et agr6ment de la fiche technique: octobre -novembre 1994.
-  Mise en place des credits : decembre 1994.
-  Procedures d'invitation, de soumission et de selection d'un bureau d'etude etranger devant
necessairement constituer un groupement avec un bureau d'etude national : janvier - mars 1995.
-  Negociations et etablissement du contrat : mars - juin 1995.
-  Rencontre entre leader du groupement et representants de la Banque Mondiale : juillet 1995.
-  Nouvelles negociations ANN - Groupement pour diminution du plafond de l'offre financiere: octobre
1995.
-  Signature du contrat: novembre 1995.



27
-  Elaboration du marche et examen en commission des marches: avril 1996.
-  Notification officielle et demarrage des etudes: mai 1996.
- Differend entre les parties (ANN - Groupement) suite A un retard de paiement: juin - septembre 1995
en raison de non alimentation du fonds par la BM
-  Demarrage reel des etudes: septembre 1996.
Cependant, le demarrage des etudes n'a pas pu avoir lieu A la date prevue, faute de disponibilite des consultants
du bureau d'etude international (BEI) accentue par un autre handicap dui a I'absence d'un support cartographique
tel qu'exige par BEI. Pour palier cet inconvenient, il a fallu recourir (bien que cela apporte un plus au projet) A la
signature d'un avenant (portant cartographie) au contrat de base avec BEI. Celui-ci a e  mis en vigueur des sa
signature en fevrier 1997.
II importe de signaler qu'outre l'avance forfaitaire contractuelle de 10 % du montant global libelle en Deutsch
Marks du marche, BEI a facture d'autres avances de 30 % pour etre en mesure d'envoyer ses experts et d'entamer
les etudes et ceci apres la non objection et le conseil de la Banque Mondiale. Malgre cette procedure de facilite
accord6e, ce bureau d'etudes a failli A ses engagements contractuels et n'a pas transmis les rapports definitifs ainsi
que la synthese des etudes qu'il semblerait detenir A son niveau, tant que l'A.N.N. ne lui aurait pas regle la totalit6
du montant des etudes A l'avance.
En ce qui concerne les autres volets du projet, notamment sensibilisation, realisations physiques de
rehabilitation de sites degrades ou de renforcement institutionnel, l'on peut considerer que ceux-ci ont connu un
niveau de r6alisation encourageant.
S'agissant des realisations physiques telles que les travaux de genie civil, ce volet a enregistre un taux
d'avancement fort appreciable, malgre les difficultes de paiement des situations de travaux dans les temps impartis,
cette situation dans le retard des reglements des factures est du aux conditions d'obtention de la non objection
- obligatoire de la Banque.
L'assistance technique egalement prevue pour concourir A la mise en muvre, notamment dans les domaines de
la formation preliminaire, de la mise en place d'une cellule de suivi-6valuation et de creation d'une unite d'etudes
d'impact sur l'environnement, ne s'est pas concretisee en raison de certaines lourdeurs administratives relatives
notamment aux difficultes de passation de contrats individuels avec les consultants etrangers.
6/EXPERIENCE TIREE DE LA MISE EN (EUVRE
Revoir les procedures mises en place notamment en matiere d'ouverture des comptes et de leur alimentation par
les differentes banques intervenantes, ainsi que la simplification des mecanismes administratifs et financiers,
surtout dans l'obtention des differents visas. Toutefois, il y a lieu de prendre en consideration les elements
suivants:
-  Prevoir un fonds de demarrage du projet (hors budget) qui sera mis a la disposition du chef de projet,
en tant qu'ordonnateur et comptable. Ce fonds servira au recrutement d'un personnel d'appui de
preparation et de familiarisation avec les donnees de base, et A l'acquisition de certains equipements de
bureautique.
-  Prevoir un temps suffisant pour la mise en vigueur du don ou du pret pour faire face aux lenteurs
administratives qui sont pratiquement dans tous les cas incontoumables (fiches techniques, passations
de marches, appels d'offres, negociations diverses, jusqu'A l'approbation et la conclusion des marches).
-  Prevoir une formation (des que le personnel est mis en place) dans le domaine de la conduite des
operations pr6alables aux realisations), notamment:
-  elaboration des contrats et marches;
* appels d'offres, soumissions, selection des entrepreneurs et fournisseurs;
* contrats intemationaux;
* fiches techniques nationales, etc.



28
- Prevoir l'octroi de primes de performance ou le paiement de salaires en adequation avec le niveau des
taches requis pour l'ensemble des intervenants sur le projet..
Ces avantages doivent etre attractifs et incitatifs pour un meilleur rendement et une plus grande efficacite.
-  Prevoir des seances de travail programmees entre la BM et les banques algeriennes pour les sensibiliser
sur les objectifs du projet et modalites de fmancement de toute operation programmee.
-  Ameliorer les mecanismes et les procedures entre la Banque Mondiale et la Banque Algerienne de
Developpement pour rendre plus souples et plus rapides les procedures de decaissements.
-  Reconstituer en permanence dans les meilleurs delais du compte special au titre des op6rations
financieres urgentes.
-  Ne demander la non objection de la Banque Mondiale que pour les operations (outres celles necessitant
un examen a priori conformement a l'accord de don) correctives non prevues.
-  Augmenter la frequence des supervisions des operations par les experts de la Banque Mondiale dans le
cadre du suivi technique et financier de l'execution du projet.
-  Prevoir des reunions planifiees entre la Banque Mondiale et tous les intervenants dans le cadre de
l'execution du projet, notamment avec le Comite Interministeriel de Suivi du projet.
7/FACTEURSA YANTAFFECTE LEPROJET
La description de ces facteurs, de leurs incidences directes et des effets indirects induits necessiterait un long
developpement. Compte tenu du temps imparti relativement reduit pour rediger ce document, il a e  retenu de
presenter les principaux facteurs d'une facon succincte.
a/ Facteurs externes aux parties prenantes:
Les bureaux d'etudes etrangers (12 au total) invites eventuellement A soumissionner en vue de la realisation des
lots d'etudes n'ont pas marque d'interet pour se produire en Algerie.
II s'est avere que le bureau d'etude qui a ete selectionne, parce que s'etant engag6 a faire travailler ses
consultants sur site n'a ni les capacites, ni l'envergure, ni les moyens financiers requis pour couvrir son plan de
charge.
Par ailleurs, le dispositif prevoyant un consultant par etude n'a pas ete respecte par le bureau d'etudes
international qui a fiit travailler le mene consultant, en une meme mission, sur deux ou trois etudes. Cette maniere
de proceder s'est repercutee sur la facturation et a cree des differends de comptage en hommes/semaines, a l'origine
de retards importants de paiements ou des surplus de paiement et par corollaire, eu des consequences fa.cheuses sur
le programme convenu.
-  La non possibilite de transfert de la cartographie a egalement cree des difficultes telles qu'il a fallu
recourir A un contrat cartographique en sus du contrat principal pour pallier l'inconvenient de la non
disponibilite de cartes en Allemagne.
Le temps mis pour l'elaboration du contrat cartographique, sa negociation et sa signature (plusieurs mois) a
egalement g6ner6 des retards et des reports d'echeances importants.
b/ Facteurs relevant des organes de suivi et de controle:
-  Ni le comite interministeriel, ni le comite local de Wilaya, ni le conseil d'orientation du parc national
dont il etait prevu dans le cadre du m6morandum du projet d'intervenir chaque fois que necessaire pour
lever les contraintes rencontrees ne se sont reunis de fa,on reguliere ni contribue de fa,on efficace dans
l'apport de solutions.
-  Le changement intervenu A la tete de la Wilaya d'El-Tarf au debut de l'annee 1995 a engendre
immediatement un gel dans les relations inter-sectorielles quasi total du projet dans la mesure oiu le
comite de wilaya s'est d6parti de son devoir de suivi.



29
Par ailleurs, l'incomprehension de la portee du projet par les autorites locales s'est immediatement traduite par
des lourdeurs bureaucratiques et procedurieres ayant pour consequences un sureroit de difficultes et de blocage sur
la bonne marche du projet, surtout dans les domaines de travaux publics et de batiments.
c/ Facteurs relevant des parties prenantes et notamment de l'instabilite de l'encadrement:
-  Changement de Wali et de Secretaire General de la Wilaya d'El-Tarf: 1995;
-  Suspension du chef de projet et son remplacement par des interimaires: 1997 et 1998.
Ces mouvements ont eu pour consequence une modification de la vision du proj et qui n'a e plus consid6ere
que comme une suite d' operations et d'actions sans relations les unes avec les autres au detriment de la vision
systematique et coherente initiale.
Par ailleurs, les changements intervenus egalement au niveau des secteurs technico-administratifs de Wilaya
qui assurent la realisation et le suivi d'actions physiques, d'etudes, de sensibilisation,. . . etc. a eu, de meme, un
impact negatif sur la continuite des programmes. A titre d'exemple, cette instabilite a touche les responsables
locaux suivants:
* Conservateur des Forets A deux reprises :1995-1996.
* Directeur de l'Agriculture: 1995.
* Directeur de la Planification: 1995.
d/ Facteurs relatifs aux procedures et a leurs prealables en particulier.
-  Difficulte de mise en ceuvre des procedures reglementaires dans des delais de temps planifies souvent
tres courts.
-  Difficulte de suivre normalement les procedures financieres, notamment en matiere de rapprochements
des comptes avec l'institution bancaire dont les moyens technico-administratifs sont limites.
el Facteurs internes au projet:
-  Remuneration tres faibles des intervenants etant donne leur alignement sur la grille de la fonction
publique.
-  Aucune formation n'a et6 donnee au personnel du projet pour la maitrise des operations programmees.
8/PERFORMANCE DEL 'A.N.N.
D3s la phase pr6paratoire, 1'emprunteur, en l'occurrence I'A.N.N. a marqu6 une disponibilite significative.
Des efforts louables ont ete consentis pour repondre aux conditionnalit6s exigees, permettre le d6marrage du
projet et en assurer une execution satisfaisante.
Malgre de nombreuses difficultes de mise en couvre d'ordre divers, le projet n'a pu atteindre un niveau
significatif de realisation au debut de son lancement pour connaAitre un arret brutal en octobre 1997 a la suite d'un
changement de personnel au niveau de la cellule technique sur site.
Les efforts entrepris pour assurer la meilleure continuit6 possible des programmes en cours, malgre la bonne
volonte du personnel de 1'U.P.E.K. et de I'A.N.N. n'ont pu malheureusement atteindre les niveaux necessaires
souhaites et ce, jusqu'a la restructuration du don en juin 1998 et la decentralisation a nouveau de la cellule de
gestion du projet.
*  Le programme issu de la restructuration, a tout de meme pu etre mene A terme et ce, grace a un
renforcement du personnel technique sur site.
*  Les echeances de remise des documents essentiels (esquisse du plan de gestion et plan de gestion
provisoire en juin 1998) ont e  respectees par 1'A.N.N.
*  L'elaboration du plan de gestion definitif qui a e  la prdoccupation majeure a ete prise en charge,
mais les retards accumules principalement par le Bureau d'etude dans la remise des rapports
definitifs d'etudes a serieusement affect6 la finalisation du document dans les delais impartis. Ce
dernier aurait pu permettre la mise en place d'un plan directeur et de plannings operationnels de



30
realisation des differentes taches et permettre a I'A.N.N. de ne pas anticiper les operations de
r6alisation et d'infrastructures et travaux d'am6nagement.
Compte tenu d'imperatifs conjoncturels et des difficultes rencontrees lors de la mise en ceuvre ou
durant l'execution du projet, l'on peut considerer la performance de l'emprunteur comme
relativement satisfaisante en matiere de realisation et d'equipements, bien qu'il y a lieu de noter
tout de meme l'insatisfaction liee au non achevement de l'etude du plan de gestion definitif dans
les delais convenus.
La demiere prorogation de delai de l'accord de don accordee, de juin 1998 a juin 1999 fut entierement affect6e
quant au respect des plannings operationnels 6tablis conjointement entre l'A.N.N. et la Banque mondiale, par des
procedures et des exigences supplementaires non prevues initialement.
En effet, a titre d'exemple, le planning de realisation des travaux de Genie Civil etabli enjuillet 1998, prevoyait
six (06) mois pour les etudes techniques et six (06) mois pour la realisation proprement dite du cadre bati, en
passant par un marche de gre a gre tel que recommande par la Banque Mondiale dans un souci de gain de temps.
Cependant, au moment de la conclusion des marches, le comite interministeriel de suivi du projet oblige 1'ANN de
se conformer a la reglementation des marches publics et de passer imperativement par I'avis d'appel d'offre a la
concurrence. De plus, la Banque Mondiale a exig6 la transmission des cahiers des charges et des projets de contrats
pour approbation avant le lancement des travaux. Ce qui se manifesta par des retards sur les previsions retenues
avec la Banque mondiale.
Cette situation amena I'A.N.N. a solliciter une nouvelle prorogation de quatre a six mois, soit une dur6e
compensant le temps non utilise consacr6 a la satisfaction des conditions supplementaires et ce, afin de finaliser les
actions en cours de realisation y compris la synthese des etudes confi6es au groupement.
De plus, le non paiement des situations de travaux qui aurait du etre effectue par la Banque dans le mois qui
suit leur reception, ont serieusement mis en difficulte les entreprises de realisation. Ces dernieres, apres d'apres
negociations avec l'administration de l'U.P.E.K., ont fini par accept6 de mener avec un leger ralentissement les
travaux a leur terne tout en supportant les besoins de fmancement n6cessaire. Encore faut - il citer les difficultes
liees a la d6livrance des permis de construire par le biais des autorites administratives locales engendrant de
fr6quents arr8ts de chantiers.
Par ailleurs, en ce qui conceme l'acquisition des equipements, une partie des dotations prevues n'a pu etre
realisee en raison de l'absence de la non objection de la Banque.mondiale; il s'agit notamment des embarcations et
de la station m6teorologique qui auraient pu 8tre receptionnees et pay6es avant la cl6ture du don.
Les problemes rencontres par la B.M sur son reseau informatique et le demenagement de ses bureaux a
Washington au deuxieme trimestre 1999 et ce, durant presque trois mois, se sont soldes par la non alimentation du
compte, d'oiu le retard des paiements des situations de travaux jusqu'apres la cl6ture du don.
9/PRINCIPA UX ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DEL 'EXPERIENCE.
Bien que tous les objectifs assignes n'aient pas 6te atteints, une multitude d'enseignements ont pu etre tires de
l'experience.
a/ Nrennite:
-  prise en charge des problemes du parc national et du complexe des zones humides.
Le proj et a influe de facon remarquable sur toutes les spheres locales de decision, les ONG et meme les
populations citadines et rurales quant aux retombees positives d'un parc national gere de facon rationnee aux
ressources preservees et exploitees d'une maniere convenable au profit de la communaute en general.
Cette nouvelle vision due a une sensibilisation opportune va se concretiser par des decisions raisonnees et
raisonnables dans le futur par opposition a la demarche ancienne du << tout exploitable o.
Toutes les realisations accomplies sont prises en charge par les parties prenantes qui en assureront le contr6le,
le suivi, l'utilisation et 1'exploitation futurs.



31
Les beneficiaires disposent sur leurs budgets propres de ressources a meme de perenniser le bien qui leur a e
devolu.
L'Unite de projet d'El-Kala et l'emprunteur (ANN) se sont engag6s a achever le plan de gestion, a le soumettre
a toutes les parties prenantes, a en transmettre une copie a la Banque Mondiale.
b/ - Les le,ons livrees de 1'experience.
1- Le projet aurait du tout d'abord s'appuyer sur les competences nationales et de ne recourir aux bureaux
d'etudes etrangers que dans des domaines scientifiques et techniques de pointe bien cibles.
2- Les rapports BM- A.N.N. doivent obeir ai des procedures et des mecanismes administratifs et financiers
plus clairs et plus simplifies.
3- Les estimations des couits des differentes operations contenus dans le memorandum doivent faire
l'objet d'une etude preliminaire.
4- Un plan directeur aurait dui avoir lieu avant le lancement du projet, avec une 6tude de faisabilite
technico-socio-economique permettant une meilleure prise en charge des actions retenues.
5- Une campagne de sensibilisation ciblant toutes les parties prenantes, notamment la population, les
autorites locales, les ONG aurait du avoir lieu bien avant le lancement du projet.
6- Toutes les categories des habitants residents auraient du etre impliquees directement dans 1'elaboration
du projet et beneficie des aides materielles A l'instar des structures locales de la Wilaya.
7- La BM aurait du designer un expert conseiller permnanent au niveau de la direction du projet.
8- Le prononce de non objection de la BM ne doit concemer que les actions non prdvues dans la
memorandum ou bien qu'en cas de depassement des montants retenus.
Un rapport detaille d'achevement du projet portant sur tous les volets de l'experience sera transmis
ulterieurement a la Banque Mondiale.



32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLANDS COMPLEX MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(GRANT NO. 28641-AL)
APPENDIX B
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



33
REPUBLIQUE ALGERIENNE DEMOCRATIQUE ET POPULAIRE
PROJET D'AMENAGEMENT DU PARC NATIONAL D'EL KALA ET DU
COMPLEXE DES ZONES HUMIDES
DON TF-028641
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
du 3 octobre au 14 octobre 1999
PROCES VERBAL
I.    Introduction
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale (Banque), composee de Madame Aline Cabal
(chef de projet), Monsieur Slimane Bedrani (economiste agronome), et Monsieur Salah
Eddine Khemissi (analyste financier), s'est deroulee en Algerie du 3 octobre 1999 au 14
octobre 1999 afin de passer en revue 1'6tat d'avancement du projet et de preparer le rapport
d'achevement du projet. Ce projet ayant ete cl6ture le 30 juin 1999, il est imperatif que le
rapport d'achevement soit rendu au conseil d'Administration de la Banque six mois apres la
date officielle de cl6ture du Don, soit donc le 30 decembre 1999. Le rapport qui doit etre
remis a cette date doit aussi inclure le rapport prepare par la partie algerienne et nous
comptons fermement a ce que toutes les parties algeriennes engagees dans ce processus de
revue tiennent leurs engagements pour livrer A temps leur contribution au rapport final
d'achevement. Nous avons discute particulierement avec l'ANN et l'UPEK des modalites A
mettre en place et des dates qu'il faudra observer afin de respecter le calendrier.
2.    La mission s'est rendue dans un premier temps a El Kala pour visiter les realisations
faites dans le cadre du projet et pour consulter sur le terrain les principaux intervenants. La
mission y a rencontre M. Le Wali d'El Tarf, les responsables de la Conservation des Forets,
des Service Agricoles et de l'Inspection de l'Environnement de la Wilaya. La mission a eu
des entretiens avec l'equipe d'universitaires qui avait redige le Plan de Gestion interimaire et
egalement avec Monsieur Amer, le responsable d'une ONG locale. La mission a travaille
quotidiennement avec le personnel de 1'UPEK, notamment avec le chef du Projet, Monsieur
Bel Kacem, Monsieur Driss de l'A.N.N et le directeur du PNEK, Monsieur Djeffel. Les
cadres de la Direction de la Foret nous ont apporte leur concours pour presenter les
programmes forestiers realises dans le cadre de ce projet. Bien que les Services Hydrauliques
aient e convoques aux r6unions la mission n'a pas eu l'occasion de les rencontrer.
3.    A Alger la mission a tenu des seances de travail avec M. Azzi, Directeur General de
1'ANN, Monsieur Dib, le Directeur Financier de I'ANN, 1'equipe de l'UPEK et du PNEK. La
mission a egalement rencontre Monsieur Serai, le representant du groupement de consultants
ECOVALOR/AIC, les representants de la Banque Algerienne de D6v&loppement. La missio-
s'est egalement entretenue au Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Peche des problemes
rencontres par le projet avec Monsieur Ahmed Bouakane, le Secretaire General du Ministere
de l'Agriculture et de la Peche ainsi qu'avec Monsieur Abdelkader Rachedi, le Directeur de
la Planification.



34
4    La mission tient a remercier l'ensemble des personnes rencontrees car elles ont toutes,
grace a leur devouement, contribue au bon deroulement de cette mission. La qualite de
l'hospitalite qui a et temoignee aux membres de la mission a et hautement appreciee.
5.    Une reunion de synthese a eu lieu le 13 octobre 1999 avec les responsables du projet.
Le contenu de ce proces verbal sera confirme par la Banque apres le retour de la mission a
Washington.
II.    Principales conclusions
6.    La restructuration et les deux prorogations de la date de cl6ture du pret n'ont pas
permis d'atteindre les resultats escomptes. Le projet n'a pas reussi a rattraper le retard ce qui
est demontre par le faible taux de decaissements enregistres et par l'absence jusqu'a ce jour
d'elaboration du Plan de Gestion du Parc. Ce document qui aurait du etre remis par le
groupement de consultants ECOVALOR/AIC devait permettre a ce projet de demarrer et de
deboucher sur un programme de developpement qui assurerait a court et a long terme un
cquilibre entre les necessites de protection dans une region a forte pression demographique.
7.    Les frustrations sont ressenties a tous les niveaux et par tous les intervenants qui apres
avoir caresse de grands espoirs ont conscience que le projet n'est toujours pas a sa phase de
concretisation. Le rapport d'achevement analysera de fa,on detaill&e les raisons de cette
situation. I1 est evident que les actions engagees ont manque de caractere suffisamment
demonstratif et qu'il y a eu beaucoup de promesses sans suite.
8.    Depuis la derniere mission de concertation de fevrier 1999, le projet a enregistre
certains progres au niveau des travaux et des acquisitions de materiel. Toutefois de
nombreuses operations sont en instance et ne pourront etre financees dans le cadre du Don,
notamment pour certains gros travaux de genie civil qui ont accuse un retard qu'il n'a
malheureusement pas et possible de rattraper.
9.    Certaines actions ont ete positives telles que l'amenagement des parcelles
biologiques, les r6alisations de certains travaux prioritaires, la sauvegarde du Cerf de
Barbarie, l'amenagement de l'arboretum et la sensibilisation environnementale. Il y a eu
aussi l'acquisition de materiel, d'equipements et de vehicules. Le renforcement institutionnel
a ete effectif puisque le Projet a permis de doter en ressources humaines une structure capable
d'operer dans la zone du Parc de fa,on permanente.
10.   La mission regrette que le Projet n'ait pas profite du Don dans sa totalite.
Cependant la mission a note que le Gouvernement Algerien entend fermement assurer la
continuite des op6rationg et finaliser le programrne stlr son propre budget. La mission
rappelle qu'il est souhaitable que les autorites algeriennes prennent des mesures pour que le
Plan de Gestion du Parc d'El Kala voie le jour tres rapidement afin de retablir la credibilite
tant dans la region d'El Kala qu'aupres des organismes susceptibles d'apporter des aides
financieres exterieures.



35
III Actions et recommandations
11.   En ce qui conceme la Gestion financiere, la mission a fait l'inventaire des factures
qui peuvent encore etre presentees au service de decaissements de la Banque avant la date
butoir du 28 octobre 1999. La mission recommande A 1'ANN de prendre les mesures
necessaires, et de prevoir dans son budget pour l'annee 1999 les cofits afferents pour terminer
les travaux engages.
12.   En ce qui concerne les services de consultants, la mission a recommande A 1'ANN
d'obtenir au plus vite les etudes qui ont et faites par ECOVALOR et qui jusqu'A ce jour
n'ont pas encore et officiellement remises par le groupement ECOVALOR /AIC. La
mission recommande que, des leur reception, ces etudes soient envoyees aux comites
nationaux et locaux charges de la revue et que les commentaires soient envoyes au
groupement ECOVALOR /AIC pour la revision finale. La mission recommande que ces
rapports soient par ailleurs revus par les universitaires qui ont prepare le rapport de Gestion
provisoire du Parc, lesquels pourraient eventuellement par la suite participer a l'elaboration
finale du Plan de Gestion du Parc.
13.   La mission sollicite que I'ANN, 1'UPEK et le PNEK detiennent chacun un jeu
complet de toutes les etudes qui ont e  realisees dans le cadre du Projet ainsi que les
disquettes correspondantes. Ces rapports doivent etre inventories de fa,on systematique. La
Banque exige A ce sujet que 1' ANN lui transmette 6galement un exemplaire et une disquette
de toutes les etudes ECOVALOR.
14.  I1 est imperatif que 1'ANN et l'UPEK, en cas de defaillance  du Groupement
ECOVALOR/AIC, veillent a ce qu'un Plan de Gestion soit finalise et qu'une solution
alternative soit trouvee en consultation avec des experts locaux.
15.   II faudra egalement que les autorites Algeriennes sp6cifient le r6le de l'UPEK vis a
vis du PNEK et donnent une large autonomie decisionnelle et de gestion des activites dans le
cadre de la Gestion du Parc.
16.   La mission recommande a 1'UPEK, apres avoir procede a la finalisation de
l'inventaire physique du materiel et de son affectation finale, de preparer avec le concours de
Monsieur le Wali un cadre juridique pour que les ONGs puissent disposer des moyens
materiels mis a leur disposition dans le cadre du projet.
17.   La mission rappelle que I'ANN doit regulariser les situations financi&res et assurer le
budget necessaire pour la finalisation des realisations engagees.
18.   La mission rappelle qu'en ce qui concerne l'audit financier, conformement a l'accord
de projet, 1'ANN doit soumettre A la Banque le dernier rapport d'audit pour 1'exercice 1999 a
la Banque.



a 36
19.    En ce qui concerne la gestion et la formation, la mission a constate que la formation
telle qu'elle avait ete envisagee dans le memorandum pour les services SIG (systeme
d'information geographique) est tres insuffisante puisque les operateurs n'ont pas encore
acquis la maitrise des equipements et des programmes. La mission recommande donc
imperativement que ce complement de formation soit prevu dans un proche delai.
III.   Prochaines etapes.
20.   La mission souhaite que l'ech6ancier des activites pour la finalisation du rapport
d'achevement soit observe avec la plus grande vigilance. Dans ce sens, l'ANN et la mission
ont convenu du calendrier des activites suivantes:
a/ avant le 25 octobre 1999, l'ANN soumettra a la Banque son rapport
d'achevement, par envoi DHL sur disquette et papier;
b/ avant le 11 novembre 1999, la Banque enverra a I'ANN son rapport pour
commentaire par envoi DHL sur disquette et papier;
c/ avant le 29 novembre 1999, l'ANN fera ses commentaires sur le rapport
definitif et fera parvenir ses commentaires a la Banque.
d/ pour le 30 novembre 1999, la Banque achevera la redaction du rapport final
avec incorporation des commentaires de l'ANN et lancera la traduction du rapport
en anglais
e/ 31 decembre 1999: presentation du document au Conseil d'Administration de
la Banque
Alger, le 14 octobre 1999.



IBRD 24763R
MEDIELA  EAN se .>             -- Bizerte                                                                        A L G  E R I A
AREA OF MAP       SC
,_\   6x AOK9I IJcrj'; /TUNIS '\ r .EL KALA NATIONAL PARK AND WETLAND COMPLEX
/ tAnnna'< >~i+   ' /MANAGEMENT PROJECT
J     EL KALA NATIONAL PARK                                 ®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
A L G E R I A                            SOusse.                                [        COASTAL DUNES                                         0     SELECTED TOWNS
Z77/] PILOT MANAGEMENT AREAS                                -       ROADS - APPROXIMATE ALIGNMENTS
T U N I S I A                                               HILLSIDES AND FORESTS                                 -     DAMS
.  /  g                     B .  . LAKES, AND WETLAND COMPLEX                              -    RIVERS
W     TOURISTIC BEACHES                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'\      ½          F. AP 1)1 (I.ARiUE                                                  CAP ROSA                                          CAP ROUX
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,|VEILLE  
/-    --- ~ /      Ad,l.!)li,.:"ii! 'A!1:.5<l,J'1.9 W-A                                  CIALLE                      g
VntŽ arcs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~as
0       5       10      15                                            /                                                                                                     AOUTELDJA
I  I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HFI
KILOMETERS
The boundaries, colrs, denominations and any other   information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory or any  I
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
JANUARY 1994



