Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028641
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(El Kala National Park and Wetland
Complex Management Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated May 6, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028641
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as 
Trustee of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility 
into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and 
in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient and the Trustee have entered into an agreement dated 
December 4, 1992, as amended, pursuant to which the Trustee extended a Project 
Preparation Advance to the Recipient in an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eighty four thousand six hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 84,600) to assist the 
Recipient in the preparation of the Project;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
Page  2
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
"ANN" means the National Agency for the Conservation of Nature of the 
Page  3
Recipient (Agence Nationale pour la Conservation de la Nature), a public authority of 
the Recipient established pursuant to Executive Decree No. 91-33 of the Recipient, 
dated February 9, 1991, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Banque d'Algérie" means the Bank of Algeria, the Recipient's central 
bank, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 90-10 of the Recipient, dated 
April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Beneficiaries" means the farmers and livestock owners currently 
domiciled in the Project Area, as this term is hereafter defined;
(d)
"COP" means the steering committee for EKNP, as this term is hereafter 
defined (Conseil d'Orientation du Parc), a committee established pursuant to Decree 
No. 83-458 of the Recipient, dated July 23, 1983, as the same may be amended from time 
to time;
(e)
"EID" means the Department of Environmental Inspection within the El-Tarf 
Wilaya established pursuant to Executive Decree No. 93-183 of the Recipient, dated 
July 27, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
"EKNP" means El Kala National Park, a public authority of the Recipient 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 83-458 of the Recipient, dated July 23, 1983, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on 
January 1 and ending on December 31;
(h)
"Interministerial Committee" means the interministerial committee 
established pursuant to Decree No. 277-SM of the Recipient, dated December 29, 1991, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)
"Management Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(j)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established pursuant to Order 
No. 2105 of the Director General of ANN, dated October 30, 1993, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(k)
"Project Area" means the area of the Recipient's territory where EKNP and 
the Wetland Complex, as the latter term is hereafter defined, are located;
(l)
"Ramsar Convention" means the Convention on Wetlands of International 
Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat, signed in Ramsar, Islamic Republic of 
Iran, on February 2, 1971, as amended by the Paris Protocol dated March 12, 1982, and 
to which the Recipient is a Contracting Party;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"UNESCO Action Plan" means the UNESCO Action Plan for Biosphere Reserves 
agreed upon between the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization and the Recipient on March 4, 1984;
(o)
"Wetland Complex" means the wetland and hydrological complex adjacent to 
EKNP; and
(p)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Recipient organized 
pursuant to the Recipient's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative à la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  4
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, said deposit account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through ANN, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices and with due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Trustee for its 
review and comments, not later than June 30, 1995, a plan to update, on the basis of 
preservation and developmental criteria, the zoning of EKNP and the Wetland Complex, 
and to assign to each zone within EKNP and the Wetland Complex (i) objectives; (ii) 
human, financial and technical resources to meet said objectives; and (iii) a 
supervising authority.
(b) The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that contracts for 
the provision of goods and consultants' services under Parts A.4 and A.5 of the 
Project shall be awarded only after the Recipient has completed, to the satisfaction 
of the Trustee, the preparation of the plan referred to under Section 3.03 (a).
Section 3.04. The Recipient and the Trustee shall, not later than October 31, 
1995, jointly carry out a mid-term review to assess the progress in the implementation 
of the Project, and, thereafter, the Recipient shall take all action which the 
Recipient and the Trustee shall have agreed is required on the Recipient's part for 
the attainment of the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.05. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Trustee, not later than 
January 31 and July 31 in each Fiscal Year until completion of the Project, a report 
describing, in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request, the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference which shall 
have been agreed with the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee, not later than October 
31, 1995, a study to identify and evaluate alternative means to recover EKNP's 
recurrent costs.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such Year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee, such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a)
the Special Account has been opened in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
twenty (20) individuals have been recruited to work as forest rangers at 
EKNP.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Zighout Youssef Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Page  6
Telex:
67073
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 
 64145 (WUI) or
 
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Nourredine Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   Get Grant Allocated
% of
 
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   2,244,700
70%
(2)
Goods under
   1,614,700
100% of foreign
Parts A, B,
expenditures,
C.1 and D of
100% of local
the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
Page  7
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
   2,136,000
100%
services and
training
(4)
Goods, per diem 
72,400 100%
and travel
allowances under
Part C.2 of the
Project
(5)
Unallocated
     632,200
TOTAL
   6,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) mitigate the degradation of 
biodiversity within EKNP and the Wetland Complex; (b) assist the El-Tarf Wilaya in the 
establishment of a methodology and procedures for the preparation of environmental 
impact assessment studies; and (c) develop a model approach for the management and 
rational use of natural resources in populated protected areas of the Recipient.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Protected Areas Management
1.
Carrying out studies designed to improve EKNP's management and monitoring of 
lake hydrology, biological inventories, water pollution, eco-tourism and agricultural 
and forestry systems.
2.
Carrying out studies to evaluate the sustainability of future use of the 
Recipient's natural resources.
3.
Carrying out priority rehabilitation works at EKNP and the Wetland Complex to 
prevent further environmental degradation.
4.
Upgrading EKNP's infrastructure through the construction of a main building, 
three (3) visitor houses and marine park headquarters, and the rehabilitation of 
twenty one (21) existing forest warden houses.
5.
Training the staff of EKNP in natural resource management and protected area 
conservation and management.
6.
Provision of necessary equipment and vehicles to the staff of EKNP.
Part B:
Environmental Monitoring and Adaptive Research
1.
Establishment of a geographical information system to enhance the environmental 
monitoring capabilities of ANN, EKNP, and the El-Tarf Wilaya, and to promote the use 
of environmental data.
2.
Strengthening the environmental impact assessment capabilities of the El-Tarf 
Wilaya.
3.
Carrying out an adaptive research program to educate the Beneficiaries on 
sustainable use of natural resources, such program to include the rehabilitation of a 
Page  8
biology research center, including the housing facilities related thereto, and the 
construction of an environmental observatory in Cap Segleb.
Part C:
Environmental Education Programs
1.
Development and carrying out of environmental education and public awareness 
programs to educate the staff of the Recipient's agencies, as well as the 
Beneficiaries and the local population residing in the Project Area, about the 
environment. Said programs shall include the rehabilitation of an ecomuseum and the 
construction of five (5) information centers and a visitor center.
2.
Carrying out specific environmental conservation sub-projects through 
Beneficiaries and non-governmental organizations.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening the capabilities of ANN, EKNP and the El-Tarf Wilaya to assess and 
monitor the impact on the environment of developmental projects located in the Project 
Area.
2.
Carrying out a review of the Recipient's legal framework governing national 
resources.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors set forth in the bidding 
documents and acceptable to the Trustee, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A.1, the Recipient 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Trustee, with 
modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed by the Trustee.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of goods shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,100,000, and goods estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
Page  9
2.
Scientific and office equipment, and vehicles' spare parts, estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, (the "Consultants 
Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Trustee, with such modifications as shall have been agreed with 
the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Trustee, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Trustee approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference of such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Trustee and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
The Recipient shall vest ANN with the overall responsibility for implementation 
of the Project and shall, for this purpose, maintain PIU within ANN to assist the 
latter in the implementation of the Project.
B.
Project Coordination
The Recipient shall ensure that the Interministerial Committee and COP shall be 
responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Project at the national level 
Page  10
and local level, respectively. 
C.
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project
The Recipient shall ensure that Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with applicable international guidelines provided for under 
the Ramsar Convention and the UNESCO Action Plan.
D.
Part B.2 of the Project
In order to achieve the objectives of Part B.2 of the Project, the Recipient 
shall, not later than June 30, 1995, expand the composition of EID in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Trustee.
E.
Part C.2 of the Project
In order to achieve the objectives of Part C.2 of the Project, the Recipient 
shall ensure that proposals to carry out environmental conservation sub-projects shall 
be evaluated and awards shall be made in accordance with criteria agreed upon between 
the Recipient and the Trustee.
F.
Forest Guides
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 1994, take all measures necessary, 
to recruit fifteen (15) individuals to work as forest guides at EKNP.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
Page  11
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
