                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2589



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47820)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                      FOR THE

    ALBORZ INTEGRATED LAND AND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                  April 25, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)

                   Currency Unit = Iranian Rials (IRR)
                         IRR10,000= US$ 0.82
                          US$ 1 = IRR 12,181

                            FISCAL YEAR
                          March 20 – March 21

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AILWMP   Alborz Integrated Land and Water Management project
ASC      Agriculture Service Centers
BWC      Basin Water Council
BWF      Basin Water Fund
BWSC     Basin Water and Soil Committee
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CLO      Central Liaison Office
CWRAS    Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy
DOE      Department of Environment
EC       Executive Committee
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPAP     Emergency Preparedness Action Plan (dam safety)
ERR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESMP     Environmental and Social Management Plan
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FRWO     Forest, Rangeland and Watershed Organization
FYDP     Five-Year Development Plan
GOI      Government of Iran
HY       High Yield
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IIP      Irrigation Improvement Project
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
IWREMC   Integrated Water Resources and Environmental Management Consultancy
IWRM     Integrated Water Resources Management
MCC      Main Conveyance Canal
MDOE     Mazandaran Department of Environment
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MFRWD    Mazandaran Forestry, Rangeland and Watershed Department
MRWC     Mazandaran Regional Water Company
MTR      Mid-term Review
MJAO     Mazandaran Jihad and Agriculture Organization
MENA     Middle East and North Africa Region
MOE    Ministry of Energy
MOEF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOJA   Ministry of Jihad and Agriculture
MPO    Management and Planning Organization
NPV    Net Present Value
OMC    Operation and Maintenance Company
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PIM    Participatory Irrigation Management
PIU    Project implementation Unit
PMSC   Project Management Support Consultancy
POE    Panel of Experts
RP     Resettlement Plan
RPF    Resettlement Policy framework
RWCs   Regional Water Companies
SA     Social Assessment
SC     Steering Committee
SIL    Sector Investment Loan
TA     Technical Assistance
WBI    World Bank Institute
WRM    Water Resources Management
WUAs   Water Users Associations


                     Vice President:   Inger Anderson
                   Country Director:   Ferid Belhaj
                    Sector Manager:    Steven N. Schonberger
               Project Team Leader:    Abdulhamid Azad
                  ICR Team Leader:     Abdulhamid Azad
                                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

   ALBORZ INTEGRATED LAND AND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54

  Attachments: Alborz Integrated Land and Water Management Project - Photos
  MAPS IBRD 33254 and 33339
A. Basic Information
                                                                           IRAN - Alborz
                        Iran, Islamic Republic                             Integrated Land and
Country:                                       Project Name:
                        of                                                 Water Management
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P071170                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47820
ICR Date:               04/25/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           IRAN
Original Total
                        USD 120.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 63.92M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 120.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Jihad and Agriculture (MOJA) and Mazandaran Regional Water Company (MRWC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/09/2003      Effectiveness:            02/17/2006         02/17/2006
Appraisal:            10/26/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/26/2005      Mid-term Review:                             04/18/2010
                                      Closing:                  10/31/2012         10/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                     3                   3
Central government administration                                       3                   3
Forestry                                                               2                    2
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        2                   2
Irrigation and drainage                                                90                  90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                     13                  13
Participation and civic engagement                                     25                  25
Rural policies and institutions                                        13                  13
Rural services and infrastructure                                      25                  25
Water resource management                                              24                  24

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                        Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Steven N. Schonberger                 Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Project Team Leader:       Abdulhamid Azad                       Satoru Ueda
ICR Team Leader:           Abdulhamid Azad
ICR Primary Author:        Joseph G. Nagy




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project would assist the Islamic Republic of Iran in piloting basin-wide integrated
water resources management (IWRM) in Mazandaran Province so that lessons learned
can be replicated in the rest of the country. The project's development objective was to
demonstrate the benefits of the IWRM at the river basin level by: (a) sustainably
increasing agricultural productivity through the improved irrigation and drainage system
and participatory management mechanism; (b) reducing soil erosion and sediments yields
into the Alborz Dam, which was currently under construction using the Islamic Republic
of Iran's funds, through the improved upper watershed management; and (c) protecting
the water environment downstream of the Babol River and other water bodies through
improved hydrological/water quality monitoring reservoir operation, and pest
management.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No Revision.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally           Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target           Completion or
                                             documents)          Values           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Improved water quality downstream of the Babol River
Value
quantitative or               5                        >5                              5 to 6
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Rate of reduced soil erosion and sediment yields flowing into the Alborz Dam
Value
quantitative or               0                        15                                15
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
                  Soil loss by erosion is probably in the range of only one third of what was
(incl. %
                  estimated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Increased agricultural productivity and income through double cropping intensity
Value
quantitative or               20                       34                                30
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %



                                                 iii
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Water users provided with new/improved irrigatiion and drainage services
Value
quantitative or               0                      77,000                           30,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2002             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Female water users provided with irrigation and drainage services
Value
quantitative or               0                 No target set                         1,540
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/31/2012             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Estimated 2% of all water users.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Operational water user associations created and/or strengthened
Value
quantitative or               0                       10                               19
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/31/2012             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage services (total)
Value
quantitative or               0                      52,000                           20,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/31/2012             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage (new)
Value
quantitative or               0                      19,000                           4,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/31/2012             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage services (improved)
Value
quantitative or               0                      33,000                           16,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/31/2012             10/31/2012                          10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %


                                                 iv
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of competent operational staff and consultants
Value
(quantitative                 9                      25                               50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                        10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increased number of hydrological and water quality monitoring stations
Value
(quantitative                 6                      10                               10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                        10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Established and functional Basin Water Council
Value
(quantitative                 0                      1                                1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                        10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Area covered by rehabilitated or new irrigation and drainage
Value
(quantitative                 0                   52,000                            20,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                        10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Area where watershed management plans are implemented
Value
(quantitative                 0                   51,500                            20,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2004             10/31/2012                        10/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                            DO                       IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
                                                    Moderately
     1    09/27/2005   Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.00
                                                  Unsatisfactory
     2    12/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
                                                    Moderately
     3    05/01/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                     3.73
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
     4    08/02/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                     3.75
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
     5    12/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                     6.20
                                                  Unsatisfactory
      6   03/28/2007       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             6.20
      7   12/04/2007       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             9.38
      8   02/07/2008       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            12.09
      9   08/06/2008       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            15.93
     10   03/20/2009       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            20.97
     11   12/30/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            26.14
     12   06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            35.23
                            Moderately              Moderately
     13   07/05/2011                                                              43.58
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
     14   07/04/2012      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                  55.37

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I.        Disbursement Profile




                                                 vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     The project was approved in 2005 at a time when Iran was at a crossroads
regarding its management of water resources. The country had invested heavily in
hydraulic infrastructure, consisting of over 100 dams with an estimated storage volume of
over 30 billion m3, and complementary water distribution systems for both irrigation and
drinking water supplies in urban areas. On the institutional front, management of
resources was decentralized through autonomous Regional Water Companies, which
were responsible for irrigation infrastructure.

2.     The country was facing water management challenges on several fronts. These
included rapid aquifer depletion, water quality deterioration and service gaps in meeting
the demands of rapidly growing urban settlements. These problems were further
compounded by water logging and salinization caused by poor drainage, and periodic
flooding in estuarine areas caused by ineffective management of riverine water flows.

3.      Many dams had been built without complementary investments in water
distribution networks to farmers’ fields resulting in sub-optimal utilization of the highly
capital intensive investments in the dams. In many cases, arrangements for operation and
maintenance (O&M) were inadequate. Furthermore, in the absence of agricultural
reforms, farmers had not been diversifying to water-conserving high value crops.
Agricultural productivity was much lower than in comparable MNA countries in terms of
yield/ha and per unit of water utilized.


Rationale for Bank assistance

4.      In 2003, the Bank approved a Water Resources Sector Strategy which advocated
managing water resources by adopting the following three principles: (1) the ecological
principle that land and water in a river basin need to be managed holistically to protect
the environment; (2) the institutional principle that integrated water resource management
(IWRM) is best carried out when managed at the lowest appropriate level with the
participation of all stakeholders; and (3) the financial principle that water is a scarce
resource and needs to be managed as an economic good through the design of appropriate
incentives that improve allocation and enhance quality.

5.      In many ways, the difficulties experienced with past investments in Iran arose
because the institutional and financial designs of projects did not follow the above
principles of IWRM. For instance, irrigation water pricing did not generate incentives for
resources conservation. Water allocations between the Operation Maintenance
Companies (OMCs) and urban water utilities did not meet any “market? test.
Enforcement of pollution standards was virtually non-existent, and the GOI’s capacity to
protect upper watersheds from unsustainable exploitation by herders and loggers was
weak. There was tremendous scope for improving water use productivity in agriculture


                                            1
through pricing and institutional reforms. Unless such measures were taken,
unsustainable water use could seriously constrain Iran’s competitiveness in the global
economy and slow future growth.

6.      To address these problems it was agreed that a holistic approach to IWRM was
required – a strategy in which the Bank had wide experience – together with
implementing specific programs to validate key aspects of design. Through a process of
testing innovative project designs, learning about what works and what doesn’t in the
Iranian context, GOI could enhance management of water resources in a sustainable
manner.

7.      The Government’s request for Bank assistance through the project therefore,
came not only as a follow-up to the Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP), but also with
the idea of transferring global knowledge and experience in sustainable Water Resources
Management (WRM) to Iran. The use of a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) instrument
allowed the applicability of global best practices to the Iranian context to be validated
sufficiently before any country-wide scaling-up. The project design also recognized the
need for initiating a process of knowledge sharing and peer learning between the Bank
and GOI project teams and phasing so that key technical assistance (TA), ensuring user
participation, took place before the start of construction.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.      The project's development objective was to demonstrate the benefits of integrated
water resources management (IWRM) at the river basin level by: (a) sustainably
increasing agricultural productivity through the improved irrigation and drainage system
and participatory management mechanism; (b) reducing soil erosion and sediment yield
into the Alborz Dam, on the Babol River, through improved upper watershed
management; and (c) protecting the water environment downstream of the Babol River
and other water bodies through improved hydrological/water quality monitoring reservoir
operation, and pest management.

9.     The key outcome indicators of the project were: (a) increased agricultural
productivity (US$/ha), (b) reduced soil erosion and sediment yields flowing into the
Alborz Dam (m3/year) and (c) improved water environment downstream of the Babol
River (m3/s) and other water bodies.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.    The PDO has not been revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The primary beneficiaries of the project are farmers in traditional irrigation and
rainfed areas. The introduction of a modern surface irrigation system (area of 16,573 ha)


                                            2
will benefit 33,000 farmers. The improvement of deteriorated traditional irrigation
infrastructure and on-farm improvements, resulting in a more reliable, efficient, and
equitable water distribution system in the existing irrigation area (area of 36,178 ha) will
benefit a further 44,000 farmers. Farmers will also experience increased production from
improvements in irrigation and drainage that will enable crop diversification into
secondary crops in the fall and winter seasons when heavy rain can cause flooding. In
addition, foresters and herders in the upper watershed, fishermen using abbandans (water
reservoirs) and the 973,000 basin population will benefit from the environmental and
integrated watershed resource management programs.

12.      The two implementing organizations and their staff, Mazandaran Jihad and
Agriculture Organization (MJAO), responsible for on-farm tertiary and quaternary
irrigation, drainage and agricultural extension, and MRWC, responsible for weir and
trunk irrigation networks are also beneficiaries. The project gave both agencies various
training opportunities as well as working experience in best irrigation management and
agricultural practices that they can use in the future. Skilled and unskilled labor employed
during the construction and operation and maintenance period also benefited.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.    The project consisted of the following five components:

Component 1: Upper Watershed, Forestry and Rangeland Management (Base Cost -
US$13.2million): This included: (i) TA for preparing an upper watershed master plan
and capacity building for community management organizations; (ii) forest and rangeland
rehabilitation and management, including nursery construction and regeneration of
natural/artificial stands (51,500 ha); and (iii) soil and water protection measures, such as
gabion check structures and other vegetative measures, over the upper watershed area.
The aim is to establish effective soil and water protection through sustainable,
participatory community-based forest and rangeland management, including
establishment of cooperatives in the upper watershed.

Component 2: Irrigation and Drainage Management (Base Cost - US$128.7 million):
This included: (i) rehabilitation and construction of irrigation and drainage systems
covering a total area of about 52,000 ha, comprising 33,000 ha of traditional irrigation
areas, and 19,000 ha of new irrigation areas previously rainfed, with supplementary
irrigation by groundwater; (ii) capacity building and TA for establishment of WUAs to
manage secondary networks and cost recovery of O&M expenditures, and (iii)
agricultural extension and research for farmers in improved water management, crop
diversification and productivity The aim is to enhance irrigation water use efficiency and
agricultural production/income through rehabilitation and modernization of the
irrigation/drainage systems, together with improved O&M, diffusion of participatory
water management, and training and support for agricultural extension/research.

Component 3: Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM) (Base Cost - US$4.9
million): This included: (i) TA to establish a Basin Water Council (BWC); (ii) a Basin
Water Fund (BWF) to provide assistance for community-based activities for water and


                                             3
natural resources conservation, and (iii) the establishment of a support system that
enables the BWC to discharge its mandate by involving stakeholders in sharing
information on environmental impacts, benefits of the project, and promoting water
conservation in the basin.

Component 4: Environmental Management (Base Cost-US$7.6 million): This included
the following elements as identified in the Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP): (i) water quality monitoring in rivers, aquifers and abbandans (water reservoir),
(ii) river ecology monitoring and mitigation measures; (iii) forest monitoring and
management; (iv) an integrated pest management plan; (v) resettlement instruments; (vi)
a dam safety plan; (vii) cultural property; and (viii) public participation and awareness
raising. These were to be addressed in the form of TA for special studies, provision of
monitoring equipment and capacity building training for GoI staff and users, as well as
prioritized mitigation measures.

Component 5: Project Implementation and Coordination Support (Base Cost - US$3.9
million): This component supported project implementation and coordination nationally
and at basin level. It also provided institutional support to the Ministry of Jihad and
Agriculture (MOJA) and the Mazandaran Regional Water Company (MRWC) including
strategic sectoral and feasibility studies for future projects.

1.6 Revised Components

14.    No revision.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.    No significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis:

16.     Project design incorporated many lessons learned from the Irrigation
Improvement Project (IIP) which closed in 2002. The IIP highlighted the need to: (i)
establish proper institutional coordination involving management at the lowest
appropriate level; (ii) strengthen implementing agency procurement capabilities to
enhance project implementation; (iii) foster beneficiary participation through WUAs at an
early stage; and (iv) embrace the IWRM approach to address interconnected water issues
in the same basin.

17.     In addition, various alternative project approaches were studied and analyzed
including: (i) an irrigation and drainage project alone (without integrated water resources
management); (ii) technical assistance (TA) alone (no lending for infrastructure); and (iii)
rehabilitation of the existing irrigated area alone. These were rejected based on lessons


                                             4
    learned from the IIP project, the increased benefits that arise from combining
    infrastructure investments and complimentary TA, and the opportunity to increase farmer
    incomes in rainfed areas as well as mitigating over-extraction of groundwater by a
    reliable surface irrigation system in the new areas.

    18.      Project design: The overall project design was appropriate. However, more
    attention should have been paid to the problems encountered with land acquisition, which
    became a major issue and delayed project implementation. Land acquisition issues should
    have been identified as a risk with corresponding mitigation measures. Also the use of
    preliminary engineering designs (instead of detailed designs) along with outdated
    irrigation cost feasibility studies, resulted in initial low cost estimates. After revision,
    there was a substantial cost increase for civil works.

    19.     Government commitment/Stakeholder involvement: The commitment of the
    GOI was strong throughout project preparation, appraisal, implementation and operation.
    Stakeholders (GOI departments and agencies, farmers/herders and foresters) were
    involved in project preparation and design through participatory processes from the
    outset.

    20.     Risk assessment: The overall risk of attaining the project development objectives
    and the risk to attaining component results was rated as “High? in the Project Appraisal
    Document (PAD) and the ICR team agrees with this assessment. The PAD had identified
    several potential risks and identified corresponding mitigation measures agreed to by the
    GOI. At project close, many of the identified risks had materialized. The table below
    presents the risks and mitigation measures identified in the PAD along with an
    assessment of the risks by the ICR team.

    Risk           PAD           Mitigation Measures Planned at Appraisal                      ICR Assessment of Risks
                   Risk
                  Rating
To Project          M      The GOI has demonstrated strong interest and commitment by         This risk factor was correctly
Development                applying for the PPF, which is being used to build project         identified and appropriately
Objective                  implementation capacity. It has also signaled commitment to        rated. The commitment of the
                           improved water management through this project as well as the
                                                                                              GOI continued to be strong
1. Continued               Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The CWRAS has
commitment                 also been widely discussed by stakeholders in Iran through its     during project preparation,
of the GOI to              key ministries including MOEF, the MPO, MOJA, and MOE.             appraisal, implementation and
the project                There is a consensus that the proposed project will serve as a     operation. The risk remains M
                           pilot demonstrating the benefits of the IWRM approach on a         until the project is completed
                           basin scale.
2. Inadequate       H      1) There is long experience in the project area with traditional   This risk factor was correctly
institutional              irrigation water management structures such as that of the         identified and appropriately
capacity                   mirabs and ab-dars.                                                rated. The mitigation measures
development                2) During the first year of project implementation, management     planned at appraisal came into
in WUAs to                 contracts between the OMCs and WUAs will be developed and          play. This risk is now M
guarantee                  made effective before branch canal network construction            Component 2 dealt with this in
sustainable                commences. A draft management framework for WUAs has               detail. Also in the first three
O&M of                     been included in the Operations Manual.                            years the project had a very
irrigation                 3) The project will provide substantial support (through the       large capacity building
infrastructure,            Irrigation and Drainage Management Support Consultancy) for        programme on participatory
to be                      effective stakeholders’ consultation, social awareness raising     irrigation management; studies
constructed                and training activities, as well as community consultations        and workshops and study tours
under the                  before the signing of management contracts with WUA staff.         inside Iran and overseas



                                                            5
project                      The project will also facilitate the process for legally
                             sanctioning WUA establishment and operation.
3. Lack of             L     1) The BWC will be established by a decree from the                The risk now remains low and
legal status of              Mazandaran Governor as a legal entity. This procedure is           was correct. The decree was
BWC and                      straightforward and entails no complex issues.                     issued in the first two years of
BWF                          2) Detailed TORs for the BWC and BWF included in the               the project.
                             Operations Manual ensure stakeholders’ participation and inter-
                             governmental agency coordination.
4. Inadequate          H     1) The project will provide opportunities to learn from good       This risk factor was correctly
development                  practices in other countries. Key CLO and PIU staff have           identified and appropriately
of a fully                   conducted one study tour in Morocco and propose to visit           rated. The risk remains high.
functioning                  Turkey, utilizing PPF funds.                                       BWSC is functioning under the
BWC                          2) Technical assistance from the integrated water resources and    planning deputy of the
                             environment management consultancy will be provided for            Mazandaran governor. The
                             establishment and operation of the BWC. TA will also ensure        Basin Water and Soil
                             basin-wide stakeholders’ participation. Detailed TORs are          Committee (BWSC) was
                             included in the Operations Manual.                                 operationalized through the
                             3) A simplified financial procedure has been agreed to support     establishment of its secretariat
                             community- based land and water activities under the BWF. To       in September 2006 with trained
                             ensure the sustainability of the fund a separate account will be   staff. The information base,
                             opened in a commercial bank to receive the beneficiary             water balance, and watershed
                             repayment portion of the fund.                                     master plan are in place


Overall Risk         High                                                                       High
Rating
    H = High: M = Moderate; L = Low



    2.2 Implementation

    21.   The project was approved in May 2005 but became effective eight months after
    Board approval. The project closed with a total disbursement of US$61.57 million or
    51.3% of the total loan amount of US$120 million

    External Factors

    22.           The main external factors responsible for slow project implementation were:

         Imposition of international sanctions over 2007 to 2012 period caused delays in
          disbursements and implementation. Initially Project Special Accounts (PSA)
          denominated in US dollars had to be converted to Euros. Subsequently, delays were
          incurred in the transfers of funds as intermediary banks refused to make transactions
          to banks in Iran. These delays and uncertainties impacted the pace of implementation
          of the works as contractors were hesitant to accelerate their activities under such
          uncertain conditions.
         In connection with the UN sanctions the selection of equipment to be purchased by
          the project contributed to delays from the very beginning. Specifications had to be
          reviewed against the list of prohibited items and entities identified by the relevant UN
          Resolutions.
         Travel restrictions to Iran by Bank staff were put in place in June 2009. A World
          Bank Supervision/Mid-Term Review mission did take place in April/May 2010 when


                                                              6
    restrictions were lifted. Travel restrictions were again applied and consequently there
    were no Bank supervision missions between June 2011 and the closing date of
    October 2012.
   Because of underestimation of project costs at appraisal, and increased costs due to
    land acquisition, the project faced a shortfall in project financing.

Factors Subject to Government and Implementing Agencies Control

23.     There were local and counterpart budget constraints and some delays in payments
to contractors and suppliers. In particular, budget constraints delayed land acquisition
resulting in delays in the construction of critical components such as the construction of
some canals. There were also delays in preparing final irrigation engineering designs and
preparation of technical specifications and tender documents which in turn delayed
procurement. Visa issues delayed the startup of the Project Management Support
Consultancy (PMSC).

24.    The Basin Water and Soil Committee (BWSC), established to oversee the IWRM
in the basin was slow to fulfill its mandate and thus impeded the implementation of
IWRM project initiatives. The structure of the BWSC was unwieldy with a 36 member
Coordination Committee and a Secretariat that needed strengthening.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design
25.     The project M&E system was designed to monitor and evaluate the three main
PDO outcome indicators. The three main PDO indicators included: (i) improved river
maintenance flow (m3/s) and water quality of the Babol river; (ii) the rate of soil erosion
and sediment flowing into the Alborz dam, and (iii) increased agricultural productivity
(kg/ha and US$/ha). The project M&E system was also designed to monitor and evaluate
the results indicators for each component as presented in section F (b) of the ICR Data
Information Sheet.

26.    Data collection, analysis, and reporting were through annual and semi- annual
reports as well as periodic evaluations by external consultants and Bank supervision
missions. A key element of the M&E system design was to ensure adequate feedback
from the BWC to the Central Liaison Office (CLO) and the Bank supervision team. The
M&E system was also made responsible for collection of procurement and contract
management data and information.

27.     The CLO was responsible for coordinating all M&E activities of the PIUs and
WUAs and preparing reports assisted by consultants. Consultants were to train CLO staff
in data processing, storage and analysis, using standardized methodologies and reporting
formats. Consultants were to strengthen the capacity of the staff of the PIUs, WUAs and
other stakeholders to monitor and evaluate project impacts in terms of productivity,
sustainability and stakeholder satisfaction. The BWC was responsible for sharing project
information and data at the basin level.


                                            7
M&E Implementation

28.     No specialized M&E Unit was established in CLO or in the two PIUs and only
after the mid-term review was adequate staff and time dedicated to M&E. The project
provided training and attempted to install an MIS system but was not fully successful in
getting the MIS system to properly function with an adequate data base although more
emphasis was given to this task and M&E in general in the last two years leading up to
the close of the project. In particular, MOJA, with consultant training and assistance,
produced an effective functioning M&E system by the close of the project. The project
did implement an M&E framework for the oversight procedure of safeguard policies and
introduced logical framework analysis. However, given difficult country conditions and
an initial period of non-familiarity with Bank procedures and guidelines, most time was
spent on procurement and financial management issues rather than M&E.

M&E Utilization

29.     The M&E system improved baseline data and provided values for outcome and
impact indicators and for producing progress reports. An achievement was the building of
a project website in both Farsi and English.

30.     The CLO did maintain data on procurement and contract management and was
able to monitor the progress of project component implementation through the M&E
system. At the close of the project, the M&E system could have been operating at a more
acceptable level with the capability of being sustained through to project completion by
the GOI and beyond. However, because of transfer of funds issues, no M&E reports have
been finalized for several months leading up to the close of the project. Furthermore,
identifying final outcomes and impacts are problematic due to the incomplete status at
loan closure.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

31.     Safeguard: Project preparation and review triggered seven safeguards:
environmental assessment, pest management, cultural property, involuntary resettlement,
forests, safety of dams, and projects on international waterways. A detailed Environment
and Social Management Plan (ESMP) is in place that focuses on the development of
effective M&E plans for implementation of all seven environmental and social
safeguards. At the close of the project, overall safeguard compliance was rated as
“Satisfactory?. To address multiple safeguard issues, the project team started assessment
and review of the possible major impacts in 2002. The environmental assessment
prepared for the Alborz Dam (not part of the project) was reviewed and site visits
conducted in the project area. During project preparation, the project prepared an
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), a Social Assessment (SA), an Integrated Pest
Management Plan (IPM), conducted a compliance review of involuntary resettlement
obtaining clearance from the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Network (ESDQC), a dam safety report by a Panel of Experts, and notified riparian
countries on international waterways (the Caspian Sea) of the proposed project on behalf
of GOI. The project was classified as Category “A?.

                                           8
32.     The study area of the Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) included the
Alborz Dam, the upper watershed and the downstream irrigation areas. Throughout
project preparation, consultations were held with line ministries, concerned provincial
departments, water companies, local communities, NGOs, and the public. There was a
combination of public consultations and interviews with farmers and other residents, and
meetings with technical specialists in the government agencies.

Environmental assessment

33.     As part of the ESMP, several environmental assessment and monitoring activities were
set in motion. A water quality monitoring plan was prepared and implemented on the Babol
River and selected water reservoirs. A river ecology monitoring plan was prepared by
international consultants and implemented by an NGO. Plans include the monitoring of bird,
fish and plant species in the Babol River and 12 abbandans (reservoirs).

Pest management

34.     A Pest Management Plan (PMP) was developed as part of ESMP to: (i) reduce
chemical control; (ii) expand non-chemical control; (iii) promote Integrated Pest
Management (IPM); and (iv) phase out hazardous pesticides. A monitoring plan of the
PMP was also approved and implemented. Farmer Field School (FFS) pilot studies in
several villages for citrus and rice crops were successfully completed. The IPM program
also set up a health monitoring program and data base for farm workers, prepared
specifications for detection lab equipment, and analysis of water quality data.

Cultural property

35.     Various precautions were taken to avoid any adverse impact on cultural heritage
and historical monuments in and around the dam area. The Mazandaran Provincial
Authorities provided assurances that both Shrines and cemeteries were documented and
treated with respect. A survey and mapping of physical cultural property was made of the
entire dam area. Several excavations were undertaken and some of the excavated findings
are on display in Sari and Babol museums.

Involuntary resettlement

36.     Main Canal: As indicated by several supervision missions as well as semi-annual
resettlement monitoring reports, the implementation of the RAP has been successfully
completed. Compensation was paid for land acquisition and one-time payments were
made to five persons belonging to vulnerable groups. Major efforts were made to
strengthen public awareness through a number of outreach activities. The Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Committee (LARC) held two meetings in each affected
village where complaints were heard and addressed, and community workers visited the
affected villages at least four times and held a number of meetings with project affected
people individually and collectively at the village mosque. Leaflets and brochures were
widely distributed and question and answer sessions were organized. Since serious
grievances were avoided, this process could be completed. At the end of the process, the


                                           9
grievance committee a carried out a review and confirmed that all project affected people
were compensated in accordance with the RAP for the main canal area. The resettlement
process for the main canal area can be considered a good practice example.

Forests

37.     A Master Plan was prepared along with a forest and rangeland monitoring plan.
Potential impacts on the environment from forest management activities were identified.
Activities included rehabilitation of existing forest roads, soil erosion, and forest
cooperative activities.

Safety of dams

38.      Several studies related to dam safety were prepared. Studies included a re-
evaluation of potential magnitudes and ground motions caused by active tectonic features
/ faults, a dynamic analysis of the embankment body stability, and deformation analysis.
Various other dam safety and related studies have been completed including, Fault
rupture study, Seismic studies, Alborz dam construction quality review, a safety survey
for three dams, a review of the Alborz dam O&M plan and O&M manual, Hydrometric
data collection for PMP/PMF studies and PMP and PMF evaluations, and a dam break
analysis. An Emergency Preparedness Action Plan relating to dam safety was also
commissioned and observed no particular anomalies on the dam body or inside the
inspection gallery. Monitoring and recording by dam safety instruments has been carried
out with no particular indication of anomalies. Considering the dam’s good external
condition, monitoring records and additional study results on hydrology and seismology,
the dam is considered to be safe. Nevertheless, a set of recommendations has been
provided to the Mazandaran Regional Water Company (MRWC) and the consulting
engineer with a view to further enhancing the safety of the dam (see paragraph 46 below).

Fiduciary Compliance

39.     Financial management has been satisfactory. Initial delays in issuing financial
management reports were addressed by installing an accounting software that was
customized and configured for the project. An accountant provided hands-on training to
the PIU Financial Officers. Each financial officer posted data on commitments,
disbursements, projections and overall financial status and generated quarterly reports for
project management reviews and decision making.

40.     The Bank’s advice on strengthening financial management was followed. After
installation of the new software and training, financial management aspects continued to
meet the requirements of the project satisfactorily. The Financial Officer in each PIU
followed due diligence procedures and maintained good relations with the Financial
Controller in the Management and Planning Organization.

41.    Both implementing agencies submitted audit reports and audited financial
statements in accordance with the legal agreement. Audits included project and entity



                                            10
audits that were received by the Bank and the audit findings were in general all
acceptable to the Bank with minor qualifications that were addressed by the PIUs.

Procurement

42.     Based on the Bank’s ex-post procurement review, the procurement process
followed by the Government was satisfactory, albeit initially quite slow, and the
procurement risk for the project was rated as moderate. Filing was available and well
kept; time allowed for submission of bids was generally sufficient and bids were being
opened in public at the stipulated time immediately after bid submission. Minutes of bid
openings and records of bid security were maintained.

43.    In connection with UN sanctions, technical specifications had to be reviewed
against the list of prohibited items identified by the relevant U.N. Security Council
Resolutions. All procured goods were in compliance.

44.    The Bank addressed issues of procurement by emphasizing the need to establish
competent technical staff in PIUs. The CLO arranged extensive training and hired a
consultant expert on Bank procurement procedures to assist in the preparation of bidding
documents.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45.     The project will require a minimum of three years beyond project close to
complete. With the completion of the Alborz dam and the impounding of the reservoir,
the project is highly relevant to the GOI and the government has taken the necessary
steps to see the project through to completion. The GOI has committed the funds for the
completion of the project and project implementation is on-going. The MRWC/MOJA
will need to pay particular attention to ensure that all the civil works are completed as
early as possible. All the obligations related to signed contracts as well as the required
funds to complete unfinished civil works contracts will be financed by the Government.
The GOI has put in place an Action Plan (see Annex 7) with a time schedule for performing
various civil works activities by MRWC along with the required budget.

Recommendations for Dam Safety

46.    To further enhance Alborz dam safety:

(i) Almost two years have passed since the reservoir was fully impounded in April 2011,
but the settlement of the embankment body has not been fully completed. The current
level of monitoring should be continued for three more years until the dam is fully settled
and stabilized. Seismic activities and potential landslides should be carefully monitored.

(ii) The Panel of Experts should meet to conclude reservoir impoundment results based
on monitoring data records.




                                              11
(iii) An O&M Manual should be prepared and reviewed by the POE. The operation
section of the Manual should stipulate the recently agreed revised operational rules. The
dam safety inspection procedures should be elaborated in the Manual. The Emergency
Preparedness Action Plan (EPAP) should also be upgraded and finalized.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

47.     Considering the continued contribution of agriculture to the country's economy, to
employment, and to reduction in rural poverty, the project’s objectives were and still are
highly relevant. Establishing the pilot basin-wide IWRM with efficient irrigation
infrastructure in Mazandarn Province in order to replicate lessons learned for the
remainder of the country are relevant objectives and in line with the Government’s
current aim to improve the quality of life for its citizens. Moreover the project’s PDOs of
sustainably improving agricultural productivity, reducing soil erosion and dam sediment
yields, and protecting the water environment in the Babol and other water bodies still
remain highly relevant for Iran’s continued economic and social development.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Unsatisfactory

48.    The project was not fully successful in achieving its main development objective.
The main, secondary and tertiary irrigation and drainage canals are under construction
and not fully operational. As such some critical targets of the PDOs indicators were not
been fully met at the time of project closing. Nevertheless, the project has a number of
achievements to its credit as outlined below and in Annex 2. The project constraints
during implementation outlined in Section 2 above resulted in generally mixed progress
toward achieving the project objectives.

49.      The project's development objective was to demonstrate the benefits of the IWRM
at the river basin level by:

(a) Sustainably increasing agricultural productivity through the improved irrigation
and drainage system and participatory management mechanism (increase in
agricultural productivity kg/ha or income US$/ha).

50.      Because of the delays in fund transfer from the loan the progress of five large
irrigation and drainage contracts ranged at project closing from 16% to 52%. There was
slow progress in agricultural extension and research activities to support farmers for
improved water management and crop diversification because of civil works delays.

51.   Irrigation water productivity was improved by activities primarily relating to
component 2. This included construction of Raees Kola and Ganj Afrouz diversion dams
and the main conveyer canal that originates at Ganjafrouz diversion weir with a
maximum capacity of 23 M3/sand after about 18.5 km (completed) reaches the


                                            12
bifurcation point of C24 and C25 canals. The C24 and C25 canals are about 22.4 and
23.6 km respectively and irrigate the development area as well as a part of the
improvement area located between Talar and Siahroud rivers. This major contract is
under construction and only 30% completed by project closing.

52.    Other activities were the construction of the Halidasht pumping station
(completed), dredging of abbandans (water reservoirs), rehabilitation and improvement
of water resources and lining of canals. Establishment of WUAs to manage tertiary
networks and agriculture extension and research support to farmers were also included
under this component to increase productivity.

53.     About 20,000 ha (38% of PAD target) under the project was irrigated at project
close benefiting about 30,000 farmers including 1,540 female beneficiaries (40% of PAD
target). The breakdown of the 20,000 ha is 4,000 ha for new irrigation areas (21% of
PAD target), and 16,000 for improved irrigation areas (48% of PAD target). The 34%
double cropping intensity target for increases in agricultural productivity and incomes for
the 20,000 ha has been very nearly met and is at 30% and is likely to remain at this
percentage at project completion. The main crops irrigated are rice, wheat and citrus.
The increase in yields at project close of about 10% to 15% for traditional area crops and
about 15% to 20% for development area crops, along with more efficient crop input use,
has led to an increase in farmer incomes. For example, by using conservative yield
estimates, in traditional areas, incomes from rice increased by 15% and incomes from
citrus increased by 10%. Progress has also been made in terms of de-silting water
reservoirs, increasing local water storage facilities, and increasing fishing operations.

54.     Nineteen operational water user associations (WUAs) were created against a PAD
target of ten.

(b) Reducing soil erosion and sediments yields flowing into the Alborz Dam to
increase life of the dam through improved upper watershed management (reduced
cubic meter/year soil erosion and sediment yields into the dam).
55.    The watershed area comprises just over 45,000 ha of forested slope in various
degrees of vigor and about 5,000 ha of rangeland also of varying degrees of productivity.
There is a population of about 17,000 living in villages and scattered households within
the watershed project area.
56.     An upper watershed master plan was completed. The master plant provided the
strategies to implement a number of activities for achieving the above PDO. Project
activities included: construction of water and soil erosion structures, such as gabion
check dams and biological protection measures; rehabilitation of forest roads; restoration
of alpine rangelands through seeding; closures and participatory grazing control regimes;
improving forest productivity through replanting and subsequent protection of cutover
areas and degraded stands, facilitating forest management improvements through the
adoption of a community forestry approach and new silvicultural and timber management
and marketing; ensuring increased responsibility and involvement of local communities
in the planning and management of natural resources in the upper watershed through
government dialogue on decentralization.


                                            13
57.     The watershed management plan was implemented in over 20,000 hectares (about
40% of the 51,500 ha target). The share of forestry areas managed by functional forestry
cooperatives or similar entities is at 37% against a target of 100%. Implementation has
been slower than expected in particular in the areas of socio-economic and participatory
forest management issues.

58.    The original baseline soil loss erosion amount identified in the PAD was found to
be over-estimated by about two-thirds. At project close, soil erosion and sediments
flowing into the Alborz dam were estimated to have decreased to 73% of the yields
estimated at appraisal thus achieving the target.

(c) Protecting the water environment downstream of the Babol River and other
water bodies through improved hydrological/water quality monitoring reservoir
operation (improved cubic meter/s river maintenance flow cubic meter/s).

59.      A water quality monitoring plan was prepared and implemented in the Babol
River system and for several selected water reservoirs. The six existing hydrological and
water quality monitoring stations were improved and four new stations were added. All
data is fed into a common database and monitoring results are shared among various
agencies. The information is primarily used to maintain and improve the river
maintenance flow and quality of water in the downstream portion of the Babol river
system in order to maintain sufficient dissolved oxygen for fish, especially in peak
irrigation periods. The monitoring also identifies the levels of various minerals in the
water.

60.     As a result of the water quality monitoring, river flows have been increased and
are now estimated at 1 m3 /sec which is adequate in terms of environmental
considerations. The target for dissolved oxygen (DO) in rivers and water bodies was set
at the baseline figure of 5 mg/l. The monitoring of DO mg/l at project close indicated a
figure of slightly greater than 5 mg/l thus meeting/exceeding the target.

3.3 Efficiency

61.     An economic analysis of the project was undertaken using a standard cost-benefit
analysis relating project costs to incremental project benefits to estimate an internal rate
of return (details in Annex 3). The methodology closely follows the rate of return
methodology used at appraisal and at the mid-term review. The economic analysis
undertaken for the project takes into consideration that the project will be completed by
2016. The analysis includes the total project costs during this period as well as the
incremental benefits from agricultural production that will accrue from the completed
project. The incremental benefits are in the form of increased crop net returns arising
from: (i) higher crop yields, and (ii) higher cropping intensity from the project irrigation
area that covers about 52,750 ha, of which 36,178 ha are traditional irrigation areas
(improvement area) and 16,573 ha are new irrigation areas (development area). The
incremental benefits come mainly from more and timely use of irrigation water. The



                                            14
incremental crop yields and cropping intensity also resulted from: (i) support for the
WUAs, and (ii) support from agricultural support services.

62.     The economic rate of return (ERR) relates the cost of a project to the net benefits
of the project over time. In this case, the costs of the project increased beyond the
anticipated costs of both the PAD and Mid-term economic analyses. If the net benefits
remained relatively the same in all three analyses, the rate of return (ERR) of the ICR
economic analysis would undoubtedly have decreased. However, the overall net benefits
of the ICR economic analysis were greater than the anticipated net benefits of the PAD
and Mid-term economic analyses. The higher net benefits arose because of a correction in
agricultural product prices that took place around the Mid-term review and continued into
the period when the ICR analysis was undertaken. Agricultural product prices (rice,
wheat, fruits, and vegetables) increased, almost doubling, whereas agricultural input
prices (fertilizer and other inputs) increased at a lower rate thereby significantly
increasing the ICR economic net benefits relative to the net benefits of the PAD and mid-
term review. Differences in the exchange rate, the anticipated with-project cropping
patterns, the number of new and rehabilitated hectares assumed in the irrigation scheme,
and other minor changes among the three economic analyses also account for differences
in the net benefits and ERR, but in the ICR analysis, the major difference was the
increase in agricultural commodity prices that gave rise to increased net benefits.

63.    The table below presents the estimated financial and economic rate of return for
the base case scenarios of the present ICR analysis and compares the returns with those
estimated at appraisal and at the mid-term review.

                      Financial and Economic Rates of Return and NPVs

 Base Case Scenarios                 ICR                 Appraisal 2/         Mid-Term Review
                                                                                        3/

 Financial Analysis
 FRR                               19.4%                   16.2%                    17.5%
 NPV@10% 1/                      US$140 mil.             US$38 mil.               US$73 mil.
 Economic Analysis
 ERR                                16.6%                 17.4%                     13.9%
 NPV@10% 1/                       US$93 mil.            US$57.8 mil.              US$30 mil.
1/ Present value of Net Incremental Benefits in 2012 constant US$.
2/ Project Appraisal Document
3/Mid-Term Review Report, Volume 2, June, 2010, Central Liaison Office, (Euroconsult-Mott
MacDonald).

64.    The project is justified based on the overall economic rate of return (ERR) of
16.6% and a NPV of US$ 93 million. The project was thus a worthwhile undertaking and
a good investment for the people of Iran. Furthermore, other benefits, namely the increase
in urban water supply in the improvement area, the reduced pumping from the aquifers,
the reduction in soil loss in the upper watershed, the effects of reduced siltation in the
reservoir, the improved stability of natural stands and the enhanced ecosystem are



                                                 15
difficult to quantify in physical and economic terms and hence are excluded from the
cost-benefit analysis but remain very substantial project benefits.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

65.     The project was consistent with the priorities of the government and the CAS.
The project objectives and design remain highly relevant. The financial and economic
rate of return (efficiency), based on the premise that the project will be completed by the
GOI, is acceptable. However, the overall outcome rating is unsatisfactory because
significant aspects of the project were not completed by project close. Slow
implementation was due to an initial delay of about 15 months, resulting from land
acquisition issues and the need to prepare final engineering designs, as well as subsequent
delays in fund transfers from the loan due to the lack of available banking channels.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

66.    The project supported the government’s program for rural women through the
extension program and the Rural Women’s Office in Mazandaran. The program recruited
women extension officers in twelve ASCs, along with transport and office support. The
extension officers carried out workshops, training and farm field school training for a
network of ‘Key’ women farmers to act as village level facilitators, passing on
information to other women on technical issues such as irrigation and IPM. At ICR there
were 1,540 new female water users provided with new irrigation and drainage services.

67.    Farmers at the tail-end of irrigation systems often have unreliable water and are
generally much poorer. The project formed WUAs and agreed procedures to regulate
water use that will ensure future equitable water availability for all farmers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

68.      The project strengthened water institutions at central and provincial levels by a
large domestic and overseas training programs, covering IWRM, Basin water council
functions, participatory irrigation, procurement and financial management of irrigation
technology, institutions and management. The training introduced modernized irrigation
concepts, service-oriented management, and dissemination of advanced technologies. For
the first time, a detailed master plan was developed for the watershed.

69.     The dam safety and other safeguard policies achieved substantial success in
enhancing institutional development not only for the Alborz dam but for other dams in
the Mazandarn province. Institutional achievements under the project also included the
establishment of Water Users Associations and a Basin Water Council.




                                            16
70.     A number of national engineering firms who undertook the initial project
engineering designs were strengthened by working closely with international engineering
consultants throughout the design and re-design phase. These national engineering firms
were involved in irrigation design throughout Iran and their experience working with
international companies would impact their long-term capacity. Employment was
generated for 600 persons months during project implementation of the environmental
component and staff were trained in all aspects.

71.  Several training courses were held by international project consultants. A
summary of selected implemented courses is presented below:

       1- Implemented Training Courses by Forest and Rangeland Management
       Consultant:
       About 170 person-day training courses were held. In these courses, the Master Plan
       and other related subjects on forest and rangeland management were presented for
       the specialists and managers of MNRD, MDOE, MOJA.
       2- Implemented Training Courses by Irrigation and Drainage Management
       Consultant:
       About 10504 person-day training courses have been held at various levels including
       farmers, specialists and managers of related organizations with the subjects on
       WUAs, participatory development, extension activities.
       3- Implemented Training Courses by Integrated Water Resource and Environmental
       Management Consultant:
       About 1000 person-day training courses were held at various levels including
       farmers, orchardists, specialists of related organizations with the subject of related
       tasks of water resources and environmental management. In addition, an
       international study visit to Malaysia on water resources and environmental
       management.
       4- Implemented Training Courses by Project Management Supporting Consultant:
       Various workshops with the subjects of project management, monitoring and
       evaluation and MIS were held at CLO and PIUs for related specialists.
       5- In addition to the above, about 1600 person-day training courses were held under
       the contract with various training institutes for specialists of MJAO PIU, MRWC
       PIU, MNRD, MDOE, MOJA, CLO, WUA’s members, farmers and orchardists.
       6 - Water User Association Study Visits to China were held in July 2010 for the
       MJOA group and in July 2009 for the MRWC group.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

72.    There were considerable cost savings from re-working the original irrigation
designs and undertaking the following:
       Changing the Main Drain type from concrete canal-drain to earth canal-drain.
       About 10 km reduction in the Main Drain.


                                             17
         About 9 km reduction in C24 length and about 4.8 km increase in new C25 as
          well as increase in its size.
         Eliminating a service road in the tertiary system with significant land acquisition
          reduction costs.
         Reviewing the design criteria of the improvement area and applying less costly
          rehabilitation designs.

73.    In addition, the project fostered better contract management, procurement,
introduction of a water balance information base, GIS, modeling of environmental flows,
and watershed development for IWRM. Also a number of procurement specialists
became international staff and are now working for international organizations.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

74.       Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

75.     The risk level is substantial and depends on the government’s priorities for
allocating the necessary resources and its implementation initiative for the timely
completion of the project works. See Government ICR, Annex 7.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     The Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the
project was moderately satisfactory. Identification and preparation included consultations
with line ministries, concerned provincial departments, local communities, NGOs, and
the public. There was a combination of public consultations and interviews with farmers
and other stakeholders and meetings with technical specialists in government agencies.
The design of the project incorporated lessons learned from the previous IIP project.
Safeguards were properly incorporated into the project. The project was consistent with
both GOI and World Bank objectives and priorities in the sector at that time. Throughout
preparation and appraisal, the Bank maintained a good working relationship with the
Borrower.

77.      The design of the project was moderately satisfactory, but more attention should
have been given to two major problems encountered during implementation: (i) land
acquisition problems, and (ii) the problems associated with the lack of updated final
irrigation and drainage infrastructure designs with up-dated costs. While most of the risk



                                              18
factors were identified and mitigation measures adopted, some of the potential risks
(Section 2.1) were not properly identified and addressed.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     The Bank planned and carried out two supervision missions a year during the first
half of project implementation. Due to civil unrest travel restrictions were put in place in
June 2009. Subsequent to that, regular supervision missions were not undertaken. Over
the same period, continuous delays in the transfer of funds added a high degree of
uncertainty and thereby complicated procurement and contract management. Nonetheless,
over this period, the Bank kept in close contact with the project through phone calls and
e-mails and provided expert advice regarding procurement and financial management
matters and also monitored overall compliance of safeguard issues. The Bank provided
projections for the budget shortfalls and facilitated the prioritization of procurement
packages with the government. The task team encouraged the Government to carry out a
revision of the procurement plans reflecting prioritizing of sub-projects to be completed
with existing Bank funds and/or seek counterpart funds from the Government. A mid-
term review was carried out in May 2010.

79.    Project restructuring would have been a reasonable course to take but would have
been very difficult because of the overall uncertainties caused by the delayed and
intermittent payments.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     Delays in the transfer of funds (from the loan) and associated uncertainties
impacted the pace of implementation of the civil works as contractors were hesitant to
accelerate their activities under such uncertain conditions. Thus, it was not feasible for
the project objectives to be fully completed within the original time frame. A project
extension was not considered because of the difficulties involved in transferring funds
from the loan to Iran. Supervision missions routinely identified the problems and sought
solutions but the Bank was constrained in its ability to agree to remedial actions with the
client due to the impacts of the sanctions environment.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    A strong impetus to both preparation and implementation was provided by the
commitment of the central and provincial governments, which not only provided
counterpart funding and staffing but actively coordinated project preparation and
implementation. A National Steering Committee (SC) was established to oversee project
implementation and coordination between the various institutions. The SC is chaired by


                                            19
the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MOEAF) and
included the Vice Ministers of MOJA and the Ministry of Energy (MOE), the General
Director for Water Resources from Management and Planning Organization (MPO) and
General Director of Central Bank of Iran. The government committed funds prior to
project closing (an MoU of US$50 million in Iranian Rials) in order to compensate for
the delays in loan disbursements. The Government also committed the funds to continue
with the implementation of ongoing packages for the execution of the project after
project closing. There could have been more attention paid to land acquisition problems
that were experienced by the implementing agency and the speeding up of
designs/bidding documents. Another difficulty was the slow issuing of visas to
international consultants and the problem of not paying consultants on time.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.     MRWC, MOJA and the CLOs commitment to the project was high during the
project. The CLO, MOJA and MRWC managed to award and supervise the
implementation of over 100 contracts and successfully coordinated logistical challenges
during the construction works. Staff allocations to the CLO were adequate. MRWC
managed the contractors and suppliers in difficult circumstances in that they were not
paid on time.

83.       The reasons for a moderately satisfactory rating are:

         Frequent changes of project directors at the Central Liaison Office (CLO) and
          Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of MJAO that adversely affected the
          implementation progress. However, the project steering committee resolved
          several institutional issues, such as problems of coordination and communication
          between CLO, PIUs and consultants.

         Inadequate planning for land acquisition and delays in payment of consultants’
          invoices and delays in visa authorization for international consultants.

         Slow progress with survey, design, preparation and approval of bidding
          documents in the first two years of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.     The rating of moderately satisfactory reflects the Government’s performance and
the low PIU ratings above that, although not entirely to blame, attributed to delays in
project implementation. The limitations on the Bank’s ability to increase implementation
support impacted Government’s ability to improve performance.




                                              20
6. Lessons Learned

85.      Integrated Water Resources Management effectiveness: IWRM is an effective
way to promote coordination between the many and diverse Government ministries and
institutions involved in watershed management, irrigation and drainage, agriculture and
forestry, and municipal water supply within a basin. The setting up of an effective IWRM
organization requires dedicated, educated and experienced staff within the concerned
Government ministries and institutions that needs to be motivated to cooperate and fulfill
IWRM objectives. This requires substantial project support for capacity building and also
requires a high level of government commitment and leadership.

86.    Land acquisition: It is imperative to fully identify land acquisition requirements
before commencement of project implementation and to complete land acquisition as
soon as possible after the start of the project to avoid implementation delays.

87.     Detailed civil works design readiness: It is imperative that irrigation and
drainage projects have up-to-date detailed civil works designs with up-to-date project
design cost estimates before loan effectiveness so that tendering can start as soon as loan
effectiveness is declared to avoid cost increases for civil works.

88.    M&E design, implementation and capacity building: A strong central M&E
system within the lead implementation agency should be standard in large projects with
multiple agencies involved so that problems are detected early and signaled to the Bank
and to the Government. Capacity building through adequate training of both staff and
senior management at the outset, so that the relevance and importance of M&E to project
implementation is understood, is key to M&E success.

89.     Contribution of financial and economic analysis: Financial and economic
analysis, aside from the rate of return number itself, provides valuable information in the
form of various indicators (yield, income) that can be tracked from appraisal through to
project closing and that show how the main beneficiaries (farmers) take part and benefit
from the project. Throughout the project, there are continuous changes in prices and
costs relating to both agriculture and the project itself. It is therefore important, as done in
this project, to undertake financial and economic analysis at various intervals throughout
the duration of the project. The economic rate of return has shown in this project that the
investment, despite all the implementation problems, has been a good investment for the
Government and the people.

90.     Early beneficiary participation in water management issues: Beneficiary
participation, based on a preliminary agreement with the water users at the early stages of
project's implementation, would have allowed faster implementation of the irrigation
works especially those related to the tertiary networks. Direct involvement of the
beneficiaries in planning and implementation of O&M systems, even at a later stage,
creates a sense of ownership among farmers, which is instrumental in achieving
sustainable water management.




                                              21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

91.     The PIUs in MOJA and MRWC and the Central Liaison Office reviewed a draft
copy of the ICR and provided comments which were incorporated into the final version
of the ICR. The Government’s own ICR which documents the implementation experience
and lessons learned is presented in Annex 7.


(b) Cofinanciers

92.   Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

93.   Not applicable.




                                        22
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
            Components                                           Estimate
                                          (US$ millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                               (US$ millions)
1. Upper Watershed, Forestry and
                                                13.2                    7                   53.%
   Rangeland Management
2. Irrigation and Drainage
                                               128.7                   73.74               57.3%
   Management
3. Integrated Water Resources
                                                 4.9                    0.26                5.3%
   Management
4. Environmental Management                      7.6                    7.74               102.5%
5. Project Implementation and
                                                 3.9                   12.79               327%
  Institutional Support
                 Total Baseline Cost           158.3                  101.53               64.1%
Physical Contingencies
                                                14                      0                    0
Price Contingencies
                                                25.9                    0                    0
                Total Project Costs            198.3                  101.53               51.2%
Front-end fee PPF                                0.6                    0
Funding of Project Preparation
                                                 1.4                    0                    0
Advance
        Total Financing Required               200.3                  101.53               51.2%




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                            Type of Co-                                 Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                             financing                                   Appraisal
                                                          (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                      80.3           39.97         49.8%
Local Communities                                               0              0             0
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                              120.3             61.57         51.3%
and Development

Cancelled amount: US$ 58.43 million




                                                     23
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

        Component/Output             Planned         Status at Project Closing
Component 1: Upper Watershed, Forestry and Rangeland Management
1. Share of forestry areas managed    100%                      37%
by functional forestry cooperatives
or similar entities
2. Improved watershed               51,500 ha                20,000 ha
management area


                  Component 2: Irrigation and Drainage Management
1. Modernized irrigation and            52,000 ha             20,000 ha
drainage systems in coverage areas
2. Share of irrigated systems             100%                  70%
managed by operational WUAs
below primary canals
3. Cost recovery of O&M                   100%                  70%

               Component 3: Integrated Water Resources Management

1. Established and Functional BWC          1             Established and Functioning
2. Implementation of BWF by           US$ 3 million           Not implemented
community Groups                       disbursed
3.Improved water quality downstream        5                   Greater than 5
of the Babol River (DO/mg/l)

                      Component 4: Environmental Management
1. Improved hydrological and             10          The six original stations were
water quality monitoring Stations                   improved and four new stations
                                                                   added




Component 5: Project Implementation and Coordination Support
1. Enhanced capacity of CLO and  25 additional     50 additional technical staff.
PIUs                             Technical staff




                                         24
                                             Cost US$ mil.          Project Outcome                          Contribution
      PDOs             Components                                                          Weight Over         to PDO
                                         Appraisal     Actual      Rating       Value        Actual             Value

 Reducing soil
 erosion and
 sediments yields
 flowing into the
                     1. Upper                                       MU            3             7%                0.2
                     Watershed,
 Alborz Dam to
 increase life of
                     Forestry and          13.2        7.00
                     Rangeland
 the dam through
                     Management
 improved upper
 watershed
 management.
 Sustainably
 increasing
 agricultural
 productivity                                                        U            2             73%              1.46
 through the         2. Irrigation and
 improved            Drainage             128.7        73.74
 irrigation and      Management
 drainage system
 and participatory
 management
 mechanism
                     3. Integrated                                  MU            3            0.3%               0.9
                     Water Resources        4.9        0.26
                     Management
 Protecting the
 water
 environment
 downstream of
 the Babol River                                                    MS            4             8%               0.32
 and other water
                     4. Environmental
 bodies through
                     Management             7.6        7.74
 improved
 hydrological
 /water quality
 monitoring
 reservoir
 operation.
                     5. Project
                     Implementation
                     and Institutional      3.9        12.79        MS            4            12.5%              0.5
                     Support
                     Total Baseline
                     Cost                 158.3       101.53

 Note 1: Satisfactory (S)=5; Moderately Satisfactory (MS)=4; Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)=3; Unsatisfactory (U)=2.


Completed works and services

    1. Preparing Master Plan for Upper Watershed Resource Management;
    2. Assist in establishing Rangeland and Rural Women Cooperatives;
    3. Creating Basin Coordination Council for identification and introduction of Sub-
       projects which will be financed by BWF;
    4. Grass Planting, Fencing and Seedling of Rangeland, Maintenance of Forest Roads,
       Structural Soil Conservation Measure, Rehabilitation of degraded forests,
       Construction of access road, Improvement of Eco Tourism Places, Rangeland
       protection measures, Maintenance and Completion of Access on Forest Road,
       Land Slide stabilizing and construction of retaining wall;


                                                        25
     5. Establishing 19 Water User Associations (WUAs);
     6. Preparing agreement on Irrigation Management Transfer (IMT) to engage WUAs
         to implement O&M Irrigation and Drainage networks;
     7. Recruiting 12 women agricultural extension officers;
     8. Land consolidation (1068 hectares);
     9. Rehabilitation and improvement of water courses (300 km);
     10. Dredging of 11 abbandans (228 hectares);
     11. Canal lining in Qaemshahr, Babol, Jouybar (45 km);
     12. Construction of two pumping stations services in abbandans;
     13. Construction of lateral canals in Talar right bank;
     14. Canal lining (45 km);
     15. Establishing BWSC;
     16. Establishing MIS/GIS center;
     17. Monitoring and rehabilitation of forest and wildlife;
     18. Monitoring of water quality;
     19. Implementing Integrated Pest Management Plan;
     20. Creating Panel of Expert (POE) for dam safety;
     21. Implementing resettlement action plans;
     22. Construction of Ganj afrooz diversion dam and its main canal (3/7 Km)
     23. Construction of second phase of main canal (8/9 km);
     24. Construction of third phase of main canal (6 km);
     25. Construction of Raees kola diversion dam & Raees kola canal (6/895 km) and
         Halidasht canals (1/35 km);
     26. Construction of Halidasht pumping station services and its canal (4/3 km);
     27. Upper watershed activities (15000 m3 );
     28. Maintenance and completion of forest access roads (50 km);
     29. Rehabilitation of forest roads (13 km);
     30. Rehabilitation of rangeland in upper watershed (240 ha); and
     31. Rehabilitation of degraded forests (200 ha);

The project progress by categories:

1.      The project included the four following categories:

Civil works

2.    The estimated cost for this category in the Project Appraisal Document is
US$82.49 million. Actual disbursement plans show that about US$7.59 million in MOJA
and US$34.18 million in MRWC was disbursed. Also, US$9.36 million in MOJA and
US$14.84 million in MRWC have been disbursed from the Government of Iran fund.

Goods

3.    The estimated cost for this category in the Project Appraisal Document is
US$ 4.367 million. The actual disbursement plan shows that about US$ 0.74 million in
MOJA and US$ 0.72 million in MRWC has been disbursed. Also, US$ 0.93 million in



                                            26
MOJA and US$ 0.16 million in MRWC has been disbursed from the Government of Iran
fund. All of the above mentioned costs have been disbursed under the actual contracts.

Services

4.     The estimated cost for services in the Project Appraisal Document is US$ 14.71
million. Actual disbursement plans show that about US$ 11.38 million in MOJA and
US$ 5.78 million in MRWC was disbursed. Also, US$ 7.75 million in MOJA and
US$ 1.55 million in MRWC was disbursed from the Government of Iran fund.

Training

5.      Capacity building is an important component in AILWMP for two main reasons:

     a) Capacity building supports the implementation of the project, which in several
        aspects is innovative in nature. This requires new skills, new ways of working and
        new institutional and technical arrangements. Under the Alborz project several
        new organizations are developed: the Basin Soil and Water Management
        Committee, Basin Water Fund, WUAs and Watershed Cooperatives. Capacity
        building supports the introduction of these new approaches and the development
        of the new organizations; and
     b) A systematic and well-structured capacity building effort serves to document the
        different methodologies and plans which are prepared and implemented in
        AILWMP. It also helps to introduce lessons learned from the Alborz Land and
        Water Management Project in the rest of the country.

6.       In this regard, training budget has been incorporated in the consulting services
contracts; in addition to the estimated budget of training course, workshop and study
tours i.e. approximately US$2.5 million.

7.     During of project implementation, about 2230 person-day training courses were
held by international consultancies for farmers, orchardists, specialists and managers.




                                             27
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      An economic and financial analysis was undertaken of the ILWMP project.
Although the project was to be implemented and completed over a 7 year period (2006-
2012), the project was not complete at the time of the project closing date of October 31,
2012. Civil works and other project activities not completed at the close of the project in
2012 will be funded and completed by the GOI over the 2013 to 2015 period with a cost
estimate of US$120 million. The economic and financial analysis undertaken for the
project takes into consideration that the project will be completed over the 2006 to 2015
year period and includes all the project costs during this period as well as the benefits that
will accrue from the completed project in 2015. It is not feasible to estimate the rate of
return for the 2006 to 2012 period – that is the period with World Bank involvement.
This is because only a portion of the irrigation system was rehabilitated and developed at
project close. The incremental benefits accruing to the project are not at a sufficiently
high level relative to the project costs at project close to provide a positive rate of return
from the economic and financial analysis.

Methodology and main assumptions

2.     The methodology is a standard cost-benefit analysis relating project costs to
incremental project benefits to estimate an internal rate of return and closely follows the
methodology undertaken at appraisal and at the mid-term review. The project
implementation period is 2006 to 2015 and the analysis is undertaken over a thirty year
time span. The prevailing exchange rate at December, 2012 of US$1 = 12,181 Rials was
used. All costs and benefits for the analysis are expressed in constant 2012 values.

3.      The financial and economic analysis focuses on the incremental benefits from
crop production that arise from project irrigation and drainage improvements and project
support to WUAs and agricultural support services including pest management plans.
Other benefits, namely the increase in urban water supply in the improvement area, the
reduced pumping from the aquifers, the reduction in soil loss in the Upper Watershed, the
effects of reduced siltation in the reservoir, the improved stability of natural stands and
the enhanced ecosystem are difficult to quantify in physical and economic terms and
hence are excluded from the cost-benefit analysis. Nevertheless, these benefits should be
considered, in addition to the calculated economic return of the project, as substantial
benefits of the project.

Project costs and assumptions

4.      The analysis includes total yearly project costs from 2006 to the assumed
completion date of 2015. Total project costs are included for all the project components
as all components directly or indirectly contribute to increased agriculture productivity.
However, the irrigation and drainage management component alone, the main contributor
to increased agricultural productivity, comprises about 75% to 80% of total project costs.
The cost of the Alborz dam is not included in the analysis as it was financed by GOI and
is considered as sunk costs. The yearly project costs used in the analysis are presented in
Table 1.


                                             28
5.     To complete the project, it is estimated by the GOI that the costs will be US$120
million assumed to be spread out almost evenly over the 2013 to 2015 period (see Annex
7, Action Plan). For the analysis, all yearly project costs are increased by 20% to
represent GOI and other funding not represented by the actual project costs.

                        Table 1- Total Project Costs by Year (US$ Million)

                        2006        2007       2008         2009      2010         2011        2012    Total

 Project Costs 1/       6.99        8.39       9.22         8.13      27.71       20.41        20.69   101.534


 US$/Rial 2/            9,171      9,282       9,450        9,871    10,260       10,622      12,181

 CPI 3/                 111.9      131.2       164.7        186.9     205.9       284.4        306.5

1/ Supplied by CLO, includes actual World Bank disbursements plus GOI direct funding.
2/ Average US$/Rial exchange rate from CBI report (www.cbi.ir).
3/ Consumer Price Index, World Bank Development Indicators. 2005 = 100. 2012 estimated.
4/ In addition to complete the project additional investment over the three year period 2013 to 2015
Incremental crop benefits and assumptions

6.      The incremental benefits are in the form of the increased crop net returns arising
from: (i) higher crop yields, and (ii) higher cropping intensity from the project irrigation
area covering about 52,750 ha, of which 36,178 ha are traditional irrigation areas
(Improvement Area) and 16,573 ha are new irrigation areas (Development Area). The
incremental benefits come mainly from more and timely use of irrigation water. The
incremental crop yields and cropping intensity also result from: (i) support for the WUAs,
and (ii) support from agricultural support services.

7.      Crop budgets were constructed to identify the change in net income between the
with-out project situation and the project situation for both financial prices and economic
values. The budgets incorporate the with-out project yields and the with project yields
and the change in inputs used under the two scenarios.

8.      The crop budgets include water charges and a one-time farmer irrigation
subscription fee to be paid over a ten year period. Costs for land leveling and crop loss
due to land leveling are added to overall project costs as are O&M costs for the irrigation
system.

9.      With-out project and with project crop yield increases were mainly taken from the
mid-term review report which represents the latest comprehensive study of with-out
project and with-project crop yields. The yield increases used in the present analysis are
modest and taken from the lower range of possible yields suggested. For example, rice
yield increases are 10% on the traditional irrigated area and 15% for the developed area.
With-project citrus production increases are 15% on the traditional irrigated area and
20% for the developed area. Rice plus citrus represents just over 70% of all cropped land.




                                                       29
10.     The input and product farm gate financial prices used are from a 2012 CLO
survey. The financial prices from CLO were decreased by 10% to better reflect farm gate
prices. Conversion factors reflecting prevailing subsidies and other distortions in the
domestic and foreign exchange markets were used, where warranted, to convert financial
input and product prices into economic values. Conversion factors for rice (0.7), fertilizer
(1.8), pesticides (1.8), and patty rice and wheat seed (1.6) were used based on GOI
information. For other inputs and products, economic values were assumed to equal
financial prices.

11.     The analysis is run using with-out project (actual) cropping patterns and with
project (anticipated) cropping patterns. With project cropping patterns are expected to
shift to planting more rice and citrus and more high-value crops. The overall cropping
intensity is expected to increase from 120% to 130%.
Results

1. Benefits, Costs and Rate of Return

12.     Table 2 presents the financial and economic rate of return for the base case of the
present analysis for the ICR and compares the returns with those estimated at appraisal
and at the mid-term review. For the ICR base case, the overall financial rate of return is
19.4% with a NPV of US$ 140 million. The overall economic rate of return is 16.6%
with a NPV of US$ 93 million. Given this rate of return and NPV, the project is viable
and thus was a worthwhile undertaking and a good investment for the people of Iran. The
results, not surprisingly, are fairly close among the three analyses as they all used the
same methodology and similar (updated) data sources. Total project costs also did not
appreciably vary among the three analyses thus adding to similar results. Changes in
increased product prices likely account for the more robust return of the ICR analysis
versus the mid-term review analysis.

                Table 2 - Financial and Economic Rates of Return and NPVs

  Base Case Scenarios               ICR                 Appraisal 2/        Mid-Term Review 3/
  Financial Analysis
  FRR                             19.4%                   16.2%                    17.5%
  NPV@10% 1/                    US$ 140 mil.            US$ 38 mil.              US$ 73 mil.

  Economic Analysis
  ERR                             16.6%                  17.4%                     13.9%
  NPV@10% 1/                    US$ 93 mil.            US$ 57.8 mil.             US$ 30 mil.
1/ Present value of Net Incremental Benefits in 2012 constant US$.
2/ ILWMP Appraisal Document.
3/ Review Preparation Report, Volume 2, June, 2010, Central Liaison Office, AILWMP (Mott MacDonald).

2. Sensitivity and Switching Value Analysis

13.     Changes in key output and product prices would have the most effect on the rates
of return. The most dominant crops in terms of hectares planted are rice and citrus. One
of the most dominant inputs is fertilizer especially when its price volatility is taken into


                                                30
consideration. Output price declines in the remaining crops would have to be dramatic
before there would be a significant decrease in the FRR or ERR and NPVs because of
their smaller contribution to overall incremental benefits.

14.    Table 3 presents the product and input price sensitivity and switching value
analysis by varying the prices of rice, citrus, and fertilizer. It would take a decrease of
between 20% to 25% in dominant crop prices (rice, citrus), all other prices constant,
before the ERR would be negative. The FRR however, remains positive with a 25%
decrease. The switching value, where the ERR is 10% with a NPV = 0, is thus
somewhere between a decrease of 20% and 25% meaning that the project would not be
economically viable at these prices.

15.     The ERR decreases by only 0.8% from a doubling of fertilizer prices. A
simultaneous decrease in dominant crop prices by 15% and a doubling of fertilizer prices
decreases the ERR from 16.6% to 10.6% leaving the project viable. Thus, the results are
not overly sensitive to the above changes in prices. While the above decreases in rice and
citrus prices and the doubling of fertilizer could come about simultaneously, it would
only be for a short period – the sensitivity analysis assumes that the changes in prices
would be over the 30 year analysis period.

       Table 3 - Product and Input Price Sensitivity and Switching Value Analysis
_____________________________________________________________________________

  % Change                  Financial Returns                             Economic Returns
   in Price          ______________________________                 ____________________________
                        FRR %           NPV@ 10%                      ERR %          NPV@ 10%
                                         (US$ mil.)                                   (US$ mil.)
_______________________________________________________________________
Base Case                   19.4%                  140.0                 16.6%           93.0

1. Decease in Product Prices a/
  1a. 10%               17.9%                       114                  15.0%           69
  1b. 15%               17.0%                       101                 12.1%
  1c. 20%               16.2%                        88                  10.7%            9
  1d. 25%               15.4%                       75                  <10.0%           Neg.

2. Increase in Fertilizer Prices
  2a. 50%                 19.0%                     130                  15.3%           74
  2b. 100%                18.6%                     126                  13.4%           46

3. Simultaneous Change in Product and Fertilizer
Prices
  1b and 2a           16.8%               96                             10.6%            8
________________________________________________________________________
a/ Products include rice and citrus which represent just over 70% of all cropped land.

16.    The with project yield assumption for the analysis were modest and set at the
lower bound of the estimate. When with project yields are increased to mid-range yield



                                                     31
estimates, the overall financial rate of return is 22.3% with a NPV of US$189 million and
the overall economic rate of return is 18.8% with a NPV of US$128 million.

Beneficiaries Incomes and Capacity to Pay

17.     Incremental net income from the project in both the traditional and new irrigation
areas is sufficiently robust to support the full recovery of O&M costs, water subscription
fees while substantially increasing net incomes of the beneficiaries. For example, after
covering the above costs, in traditional areas, net incomes from rice increased by 15%
and incomes from citrus increased by more than 10%. In the Development area, net
incomes from rice increased by 20% and incomes from citrus increased by 16%. These
figures are arrived at with very modest crop yield increments and modest product prices
and would represent a lower bound estimate. When mid-range with project yields are
used in the analysis, in traditional areas, net incomes from rice increased by just under
20% and incomes from citrus increased by more than 15%. In the Development area, net
incomes from rice increased by more than 25% and incomes from citrus increased by
about 22%.




                                           32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
                             Sr. Financial Management
Nezam Motabar                                                    MNAOS
                             Specialist
Magalie Pradel               Language Program Assistant          MNSSD
Allan Rotman                 Lead Procurement Specialist         AFTPW
Helen Z. Shahriari           Sr. Social Scientist                AFTCS
                             Sector Manager, Rural
Shobha Shetty                                                     SASDL
                             Development
Satoru Ueda                  Lead Water Resources Specialist      AFTN3             TTL
Supervision/ICR
Abdulhamid Azad              Sr. Irrigation Engineer            MNSWA               TTL
Maya Boulos Boulos           Financial Specialist               MENA
Robert Bou Jaoude            Program Coordinator                SACPK
Hyacinth D. Brown            Division Manager                   CTRLA
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi        Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPC
Niels B. Holm-Nielsen        Senior Disaster Risk Management    LCSDU
Knut Opsal                   Sr. Social Scientist               EASER
Magalie Pradel               Language Program Assistant         MNSSD
Zakia Chummun                Language Program Assistant         MNSSD
Dilip Kumar Prusty Chinari   Finance Analyst                    CTRLN
Kanta K. Rigaud              Lead Environment Specialist         CPF
Klas Sander                  Natural Resources Economist         CPF
Helen Z. Shahriari           Sr. Social Scientist               AFTCS
Satoru Ueda                  Lead Water Resources Specialist    AFTN3               TTL
Velayutham Vijayaverl        Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPC
Nejdet N. Al-Salihi          Consultant                         MNSSD
Ehsan Mahmoudkalayeh         Consultant                         MENA
Mei Xie                      Sr. Water Resources Specialist     WBICC


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$ Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                      11.18
  FY02                                                                      32.21
  FY03                                                                     228.72
  FY04                                                                     466.64



                                            33
  FY05                           254.73
  FY06                            74.19
  FY07                             0.00
  FY08                             0.00
                  Total:        1067.67
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                             0.00
  FY02                             0.00
  FY03                             0.00
  FY04                             0.00
  FY05                            13.12
  FY06                           267.84
  FY07                           193.35
  FY08                           181.37
                  Total:         655.68




                           34
                  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.




                                  35
                  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                        36
              Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments

1. Introduction

1.1 Project Description

1.      The Alborz Integrated Land and Water Management Project is the first of its kind
in Iran to introduce an integrated river basin management approach and enable land and
water resources to be managed in a sustainable manner. The Alborz Dam is constructed
on the Babol River and is located just downstream of the confluence of the tributaries
Azar, Karsang and Esklim. The main purpose of the Alborz Dam is to provide a reliable
supply of water for irrigation of the agricultural plains between the Alborz Mountains and
the Caspian Sea in Mazandaran Province. The construction of the dam commenced in
1999 with funding from the GOI. While the Alborz Dam is exclusively funded and
constructed by the GOI, the GOI has received a loan in amount of 120 million US$ from
the World Bank to support the construction of an irrigation and drainage network to be
irrigated by the dam in Mazandaran. The GOI agreed to integrate this irrigation and
drainage network into a comprehensive project introducing integrated watershed planning
management in Iran. The project initially was to be implemented in seven years (June
2005 – October 2012).

1.2 Project Development objectives

2.      Development objectives of the project are to demonstrate the benefits of
Integrated Water Resource Management at the river basin level by: (a) sustainably
increasing agricultural productivity through the improved irrigation and drainage system
and participatory management mechanism; (b) reducing soil erosion and sediment yields
into the Alborz Dam on the Babol River through improved upper watershed management;
and (c) protecting the water environment downstream of the Babol River through
improved water quality monitoring, reservoir operation and pest management in the
project area.

1.3 Project Description:

3.     The detail description and components of the project are as follow:

1.3.1 Upper Watershed, Forestry and Rangeland Management (Base Cost- S$13.2
      million):

4.     According to the loan agreement and the project documents the main objective of
the Component was to reduce soil erosion and sediment yields in the reservoir. Erosion
was to be checked by a combination of vegetative measures (forest and rangeland
management, stand regeneration, rotational grazing etc.) and engineering structures such
as gabions, check dams and other retention structures, accompanied by training and
capacity-building measures.




                                           37
5.      A Master Plan was produced by the Upper Watershed Resources Management
Services contract. The Master Plan provided the strategies and approaches to implement a
number of development activities in accordance with the objectives of the UWRMS
component. According to the implementation of Master Plan, a consultant for preparation
details of watershed management activities was selected based on the TOR which was
approved by World Bank in August 2010.

6.      Grass planting, fencing and seedling of rangeland, maintenance of forest roads,
structural soil conservation measurements, rehabilitation of degraded forests, construction
of access road, improvement of eco-tourism places, rangeland protection measures,
maintenance and completion of access on forest roads, land slide stabilizing and
construction of retaining walls were the most important activates undertaken by the
various contractors for reducing soil erosion and sediment yields.

7.      The latest status of the Component shows that Watershed Management Plan was
implemented in 20000 hectares and 37% of forestry area was managed by operational
forestry cooperatives or similar entities. Total physical progress of this component is
estimated at 80 percent and about USD $7 million has been disbursed.

1.3.2   Irrigation and Drainage Management (Base Cost- US$128.73 million):

8.      The objective of the project's irrigation and drainage management component is to
increase agricultural production and incomes in the areas of intervention by (a)
rehabilitating and expanding irrigation and drainage systems to improve irrigation water
use efficiency and productivity; (b) instituting participatory irrigation management (PIM)
and sustainable operation and maintenance (O&M) through relevant institutional
developments and training; and (c) implementing irrigated agriculture extension and
improvement programs.

a) Irrigation/ Drainage System Rehabilitation and Development:

9.      Land acquisition, construction of traditional irrigation and drainage systems on
the Talat River, construction of Raees Kola and Ganj Afrouz diversion dams and canals
and drains, construction of Halidasht pumping station, dredging of abbandans,
rehabilitation and improvement of water resources and canal lining were the most
important activities implemented in order to improve irrigation water use efficiency and
productivity.

b) Institutional Development for Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM):

10.     The Participatory Agricultural Development Plan aims at improving agriculture
practices and intensifying agricultural production and crop yields through the
Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) system. In accordance with latest
modifications in hydro-boundaries of the project, 19 WUAs have been established. This
compares to 10 as anticipated in PAD. Of the 19 established, 6 WUAs are located in the
development area and 13 WUAs are located in improvement area. An Irrigation
Management Transfer (IMT) agreement for a further 5 WUAs has been signed. The


                                            38
concept of IMT has already been finalized and approved and signed by MRWC, MJAO,
BWSC and WUAs. BWSC is responsible for oversight supervision, monitoring and
evaluation and dispute resolution regarding IMT. The IMT agreement will provide the
groundwork for the water distribution contract. This agreement was finalized along with
a water distribution contract that included a cost recovery percentage that was agreed
upon during a meeting between, MJAO, MRWC and both PIUs in February 2012.

c) Agricultural Extension service Support:

11.    A series of training courses were conducted on agricultural extension (PRA and
PTD). In order to develop rural women activities (it was mentioned in PAD), 12 women
extension facilitators were recruited starting June 2010. After a 28 day capacity building
and empowerment training program, they conducted rural women extension facilitators
programs in 5 pilot villages where the on-farm development plan of participatory
technology was implemented. One of the main results and positive effects of Women
Extension Facilitators activities in Jihad Agricultural Centers was raising their self-
confidence and self-esteem and also identifying disseminators, assistants and local
women leaders in villages. Other achievements of the program were:

-   Conducting initial studies and better perceiving current status of Women Extension
    Facilitators and also collecting basic data to enhance their income and livelihood;
-   Wide and continuous communication with local leaders to prepare them mentally and
    strengthen the spirit of partnership among them;
-   Selecting pilot villages to implement Rural Women Extension Facilitators
    Development Plan;
-   Holding meetings in villages for need assessment and finding issues as well as
    prioritizing their challenges;
-   Conducting extension training courses;
-   Cooperation with township extension office and related Jihad Agriculture Centers to
    hold F.F.S training programs and also plan of acceleration of transferring findings
    especially on various productions of the region;
-   Collaboration on procedures of conducting PTD programs in the pilot villages;
-   Preparing extension training programs to hold them in the villages where located in
    the project area;
-   Providing various training notifications, brochure and publications for the promotion
    of rural women’s scientific knowledge.

12.    The estimated total physical progress of the Irrigation and Drainage Component is
55 percent and US$73.74 million has been disbursed.

1.3.3   Integrated Water Resources Management (Base Cost- US$4.9 million):

13.     The objective of this component was to facilitate coordination and planning
across the entire basin and further develop the tools that all the organizations require to
achieve a higher level of integrated basin planning and management. In particular, the
needs are: (a) enhanced partnership among all stakeholders; (b) sound knowledge of the
basin's resources (data /information, systems, and models) for informed decision-making


                                             39
and optimized water distribution; and (c) enhanced community-driven activities for water
and natural resources management in the basin.

14.     To achieve the objectives of this component, a Basin Water and Soil Committee
(BWSC) was set up under the decree of the Governor of Mazandaran Province on
September 2006. The main purpose of establishment of a BWSC was to coordinate the
activities of executing agencies and stakeholders, including reviewing current and
emerging issues of land and water resources management; proposing policies, strategies
and action plans; monitoring the state of water and other natural resources; disseminating
information to executing agencies and stakeholders; and supporting community - driven
pilot activities for land and water conservation through the creation of a BWF. The
creation of the BWF was the other responsibility of BWSC along with the preparation of
the manual for operationalization of the BWF and legalization bill. The Bank No-
objection on the manual for implementing BWF was not issued, and so, the project
couldn’t disburse the estimated amount (USD$ 2.5 million) of this activity.

15.     The other achievements of this component were: a) preparing preliminary water
allocation levels for WUAs, b) preparing the operational model of the reservoir, and c) a
study on the water price of different sources for WUAs. Total physical progress of this
component is 75 percent and US$$0.26 million has been disbursed.

1.3.4   Environmental Management (Base Cost- US$7.59 million):

16.    The Environmental Management Component was structured based on World
Bank Safeguards policies in order to ensure the sustainability of positive environmental
impacts and also mitigation of negative impacts of the Alborz Dam and irrigation and
drainage network development project which encompass the following:

1. A reliable irrigation water supply for increased agricultural production;
2. Impacts on the flow regime of the Babol River;
3. Impacts on soil, groundwater and surface water quality from intensified irrigated
   agricultural production;
4. Forest and rangeland management improvement in the upper watershed; and
5. Socio-economic impacts, including resettlement and land acquisition.

17.    Although, The AILWMP was classified as a category A project under OP 4.01, an
Environmental Assessment (EA) and an Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP) that describes measures to mitigate negative project impacts and environmental
monitoring arrangements were required. As part of the preparation of the AILWMP, the
GOI decided to conduct environmental studies with an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of the Alborz Dam, including the irrigation and drainage network. The
EIA was prepared in 1997 by Mahab Ghods Consulting Engineers of Iran and approved
by the Department of Environment (DOE) in 2003. In 2004, a complement survey of the
EIA with a Supplementary Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was presented.
The supplementary ESA was also consistent with the recommendations of the Country
Water Resources Management Strategy (CWRAS) prepared by the World Bank.



                                           40
             18.     The ESMP constitutes one of the five components of the AILWMP and includes a
             detailed list of mitigation activities. The AILWMP triggers seven World Bank
             environmental and social safeguard policies, based on these safeguards eight
             subcomponents were structured. Total physical progress of the Environmental
             Management Component is 85 percent and US$ 7.74 million has been disbursed.

             19.     The detailed description of sub-components and achievements are presented in
             table the table below:

                                             DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
   Sub-Component                                      Description                                                        Achievement
                        The upper-watershed component of the AILWMP entails forest                 Preparing Master Plan and Forest and Rangeland
                        management and conservation activities where potential impacts on          Monitoring Plan are two important achievement of this
Forests and Rangeland   the environment have been identified. As a response to WB safeguard        component. Monitoring of mitigation measures resulting
    Management          policy on forests (OP 4.36) the ESMP suggested a number of                 from forest management activities is ongoing. This
       (OP 4.36)        mitigation measures, mainly related to monitoring of impacts and           monitoring is about the monitoring and evaluation of
                        capacity building.                                                         outcomes and impacts of rehabilitationforest roads, soil
                                                                                                   erosion, and forest cooperatives activities.
                        In response to the World Bank safeguard policy on Environmental            Water Quality Monitoring Plan was prepared in response
                        Assessment (O.P.4.01), a water quality monitoring plan is required at      to WB safeguard Policy. This plan is implementing by
                        AILWMP. Water quality monitoring was undertaken by several                 related organization at Babol River and four selected Ab-
    Water Quality       organizations, and project assists these organizations to improve inter-   bandans. In order to improving capacity of local
     Monitoring         agency cooperation and share monitoring results. Within this task all      specialists, several training courses were held by
     (O.P.4.01)         collected data will be fed into a common database and necessary            International Consultancies.
                        equipment and trainings will be secured to ensure proper completion        Laboratory Equipment were procured for using new
                        of the activity.                                                           techniques of monitoring.
                        The Babol River is one of nine major rivers in Iran draining into the      River Ecology Monitoring plan including the plans for
                        Caspian Sea. Thus river ecology monitoring and mitigation activities       monitoring Bird, Fish and Plant Species at Babol River
Ecological studies in   are included in The ESMP as response to the WB Safeguard policies          and 12 sensitive ab-bandans was prepared by international
rivers and ab-bandans   on Projects of International Waterways (OP 7.50 & OP 4.01).Also, the       consultancy and is ongoing by related local organizations.
including migratory     Ab-bandans have been identified as important resting areas for a           Capacity building of these organizations is doing while
fish and birds          number of bird species, therefore monitoring bird species and impacts      the plan is implementing.
 (OP 7.50& OP 4.01).    of the AILWMP on the ecology of the Ab-bandans has been included
                        as part of the ESMP.
                        The establishment of a Basin Water Fund (BWF) is proposed as part          Environmental Guidelines Manual for Submission and
                        of component 3 of the AILWMP to provide opportunities for                  Selection of Sub-Projects in Compliance with Safeguard
Environmental           stakeholders and community groups to undertake water and natural           Policies was prepared.
Assessment Screening    resource management projects. This Basin Water Fund will be
of Subprojects          managed by the Basin Water Council (BWC). In compliance with the
Financed by the Basin   Environmental Assessment safeguard policy (OP.4.01), the ESMP has
Water Fund              recommended that the screening procedure and selection criteria of
(OP.4.01)               projects submitted to the BWC comprise environmental
                        considerations.
                        In compliance with the World Bank Safeguard policy on Pest                 Upgrading Pest Management Plan was completed and
                        Management (OP 4.09) and the recent policy change in Iran with             Pilot studies were conducted in different villages. Farmer
                        respect to pest management that requires efforts to: (i) reduce chemical   Field School (FFS) for citrus crop has been successfully
                        control; (ii) expand non- chemical control; (iii) promote Integrated       completed. And Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is
  Pest Management       Pest Management: and (iv) phase out hazardous pesticides, a Pest           under on going by related organization.
      (OP.4.09)         Management Plan (PMP) was developed as part of ESMP. The
                        baseline and impact assessment sections in the Environmental and
                        Social Assessment Report clearly reveal a need to reduce the use of
                        pesticides and agrochemicals to avoid additional negative impacts
                        from the expansion of irrigated agriculture as foreseen in AILWMP.
                        In compliance with the World Bank safeguard policy (OP 4.37) a set         Majority ranges of study have been completed and related
                        of recommendations has been included in the ESMP to ensure                 reports have been prepared including: 1) reservoir slope
                        environmental and social viability of the Alborz dam.                      stability analysis 2) seismic studies 3) Alborz quality
                                                                                                   construction review 4) safety survey for three dams 5)
     Dam Safety
                                                                                                   hydrometric data collection for PMP and PMF 5) PMP
      (OP4.37)
                                                                                                   evaluation 6) PMF evaluation 7) model for dam break
                                                                                                   analyses and 8) dam break analysis incorporated in the
                                                                                                   EPAP.




                                                                             41
                                              DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
  Sub-Component                                       Description                                                     Achievement
                          Land acquisition and resettlement issues under the AILWMP are          Resettlement activities in Dam area and Main Canals have
    Involuntary           divided into three resettlement mechanisms based on the foreseen       been completed and Resettlement Action Plan has been
    Resettlement          activities and stakeholders impacted. These have been developed        prepared by International Consultancy.
     (OP 4.12)            based on the World Bank Safeguard policy on Involuntary
                          Resettlement (OP 4.12).
                          In line with the WB safeguard policy (O.P.4.11) all precautions were   Initial rapid survey and mapping of physical cultural
Protection of Physical    taken to avoid any impacts and destruction of cultural heritage and    property in the dam area and properly excavations has
  Cultural Property       historical monuments and the Mazandaran Provincial Authorities         been completed and some of these findings are on display
      (OP.4.11)           provided written assurances that Shrines and cemeteries were avoided   in Sari and Babol museums.
                          with maximum consideration.


             1.3.5 Project Implementation and coordination Support (Base cost- US$3.91
                   million):

             20.     This component provided support for project implementation and coordination at
             the national and basin level. The Component also provided institutional support for the
             Ministry of Jihad and Agriculture (MOJA) and the Mazandaran Regional Water
             Company (MRWC), including strategic sectoral and feasibility studies for future projects.
             The overall objectives of this component were: a) provide technical support for CLO and
             PIUs; b) provide training for all staff at CLO, PIUs, and all other parties of the project
             and; c) provide office building, furniture, and equipment.

             2. Project cost and financing plan

             21.     Total project cost was estimated at about US$ 200 million, with US$120 million
             in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$120 million financed about 60
             percent of the project cost, and would meet nearly all the foreign exchange component
             requirements. The rest of the cost (US$ 80 million) was being financed by the borrower.
             The civil works portion amounted to about 68.74 percent of the cost. The actual project
             disbursement plan shows that 51.3 percent of the US$120 million has been disbursed.
             34.8 percentages is related to the Civil Works portion.

             3. The project categories:

             22.         The project included the four following categories:

             3.1 Civil works

             23.   The estimated cost for this category in the Project Appraisal Document is
             US$82.49 million. Actual disbursement plans show that about US$7.59 million in MOJA
             and US$34.18 million in MRWC was disbursed. Also, US$9.36 million in MOJA and
             US$14.84 million in MRWC have been disbursed from the Government of Iran fund.

             24.   All of above mentioned costs were disbursed under the actual contracts which are
             mentioned in the tables below:




                                                                            42
       3.1.1 Upper Watershed, Forest and Rangeland Management

       25.   The latest status of civil works signed contracts in order to implement the Upper
       Watershed and Forest and Rangeland activities are described in the table below:
                                                                                                                     Physical      Financial
                                     Description Contract                                         Package Number
                                                                                                                    Progress(%)   Progress(%)
Grass Planting, Fencing and Seedling of Rangeland                                                 UWFM/W1 (Lot1)       100            100
Grass Planting, Fencing and Seedling of Rangeland                                                 UWFM/W1 (Lot2)       100            100
Maintenance of Water Sources and Structures                                                       UWFM/W2 (Lot1)       100            100
Maintenance of Water Sources and Structures                                                       UWFM/W2 (Lot2)       100            100
Maintenance of Forest Roads (10 km Karsangrud)                                                    UWFM/W5 (Lot1)       100            100
Maintenance of Forest Roads (20 km Karsangrud)                                                    UWFM/W5 (Lot2)       100            100
Maintenance of Forest Roads (4 km Babolrud)                                                       UWFM/W5 (Lot3)       100            100
Forest Roads Gates (3 Gates)                                                                      UWFM/W7-AD1          100            100
Buildings for Integrated Natural Resources Management (for MNRD, Cooperatives and
                                                                                                     UWFM/W8            87            86
MDOE )
Structural Soil Conservation Measures (Esklim rood)                                              UWFM/W9 (Lot 1)                     100
Structural Soil Conservation Measures (Babolak)                                                  UWFM/W9 (Lot 2)       100           100
Land Slide stabilizing and construction of retaining wall in Lafourak-Darzanoun forest road
                                                                                                    UWFM/W10           100            98
and rehabilitation of the second 10 Km
Structural soil conservation measures (Babolakroud)                                                UWFM/W11/12          15            14
Structural soil conservation measures                                                              UWFM/W12/11          87            87
Rehabilitation of degraded forests in Karsang Roud Zone                                             UWFM/W29           100            93
Rehabilitation of degraded forests                                                                  UWFM/W30            95            94
Maintenance and Competition of Ghozak Roudbar Access on Forest Road                                UWFM/W31/44          55            55
Construction of 2.7 km of access road                                                               UWFM/W38           100           100
Construction of 6.9 km of Forest access road and Bridges (Karsangrud)                               UWFM/W40            71            71
Construction of 3 km of access road (Babolrud)                                                      UWFM/W41            95           100
Rehabilitation of forest road                                                                       UWFM/W44
Rangeland protection measures (100 ha)                                                              UWFM/W45           100            97

       3.1.2 Irrigation and Drainage Management
                                                                                                                     Physical      Financial
                                   Description Contract                                         Package Number
                                                                                                                    Progress(%)   Progress(%)
Babol Right Bank Traditional I&D System (B1)                                                         IDM/W101         40.69          48.95
Talar Left Bank Traditional I&D System (B2)                                                          IDM/W102         14.51          17.60
Talar Right Bank Traditional I&D System (B3)                                                         IDM/W103          9.49          10.18
Main Conveyance Canal III                                                                            IDM/W201          100            100
Raeiskola System Weir, Canals and Drains                                                             IDM/W202          100            100
Halidasht Pumping Station Systems                                                                    IDM/W203          100            100
Main New Canals and Drain System (C24,C25 & MD2)                                                     IDM/W204         22.77          20.82
Talar Right Bank New I&D Prim. & Sec. Systems                                                        IDM/W205         47.51          53.65
Talar Right Bank I&D Tertiary Systems (Upper and Lower)                                              IDM/W301           38             49
Land Consolidation in Qaemshahr                                                                 IDM/W402b (Lot 2)      100            100
Land Consolidation in Babol                                                                     IDM/W402b (Lot 3)      100             95
Land Consolidation in Babolsar                                                                  IDM/W402b (Lot 4)      100            100
Dredging of Abbandans including: Siahkola Mahaleh and Kapourchal                               IDM/W402b (Lot 6)       100            100
Dredging of Abbandans including: Ziarkola and Douk                                              IDM/W402b (Lot 7)      100            100
Dredging of Abbandans including: Tanbala and Astarabad Mahaleh                                  IDM/W402b (Lot 8)      100            100
Dredging of Abbandans including: Aznova and Khordsar                                            IDM/W402b (Lot 9)      100            100
Dredging of Kaleh Bon Abbandan                                                                IDM/W402b (Lot 10)       100            100
Land Consolidation in Savadkouh (Dehkalan)                                                    IDM/W402b (Lot 11)       100            100
Construction of Central WUAs Office                                                                  IDM/W404          100            100
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Recourses (Darikande Pumping Station)                    IDM/W406 (Lot 1)      100            100
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Recourses (Bagher Tange Dredging of Ab Bandan)           IDM/W406 (Lot 2)      100             82
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Recourses (Kalleh Bast Rehabilitation of Canals)         IDM/W406 (Lot 3)      100             69
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Water Recourses (Mouzi Galleh Dredging of Ab Bandan)           IDM/W406 (Lot 4)      100            100
Office & Store Buildings for 5 Selected WUA Centers                                                  IDM/W501           26             67
Canal lining in 4 cities(Qaemshahr)                                                                IDM/W502 Lot 2       81             76
Canal lining in 4 cities(Joybar)                                                                   IDM/W502 Lot 5       46             90
Canal lining in 4 cities(Babol)                                                                   IDM/W502 Lot 6        41             75




                                                                            43
Greenhouse including heating/cooling equipment for plant disease assessment               IDM/W601          100         100


      3.2. Goods

      26.    The estimated cost for this category in the Project Appraisal Document is
      US$4.367 million. The actual disbursement plan shows that about US$0.74 million in
      MOJA and US$0.72 million in MRWC has been disbursed. Also, US$0.93 million in
      MOJA and US$0.16 million in MRWC has been disbursed from the Government of Iran
      fund. All of the above mentioned costs have been disbursed under the actual contracts
      which are mentioned in the tables below.
                                                                                                                      Financial
                                Description Contract                                     Package Number     Agency
                                                                                                                     Progress(%)
Computers, Software, Printers (4) Computers (6), 2 B&W and 1 color Printer)                 UWFM/G1         MOJA         100
Calipers, Compass, Altimeters                                                               UWFM/G2         MOJA         100
Fire Control Equipment                                                                      UWFM/G3         MOJA         100
Chain Saws (12)                                                                             UWFM/G4         MOJA         100
4WD pickup (3)                                                                           UWFM/G5 (Lot 1)    MOJA         100
Sedans cars (4)                                                                          UWFM/G5 (Lot 2)    MOJA         100
Loader/Backhoe (1)                                                                          UWFM/G6         MOJA         100
Backpack sprayer (15)                                                                    UWFM/G7 (Lot 1)    MOJA         100
Water tanks (2)                                                                          UWFM/G7 (Lot 2)    MOJA         100
Watching and wireless telecommunication towers (2)                                       UWFM/G7 (Lot 3)    MOJA         100
Laboratory Equipment for Agricultural Research Laboratories                                   IDM/G5        MOJA         100
Equipment for research Training Centers (in 4 Packages) – Specifications are ready            IDM/G7        MOJA         100
Field Equipment                                                                               IDM/G8        MOJA         100
Audiovisual for extension centers (Video camera, Digital photo camera, Color TV)         IDM/G17 (Lot 1)    MOJA         100
Audiovisual for extension centers (Video projection, Screen, Visualizer)                 IDM/G17 (Lot 2)    MOJA         100
Communication (computer, printer, fax etc.) for extension centers                            IDM/G18        MOJA         100
MIS/GIS Center HW and SW for BWSC-MOJA                                                     IWRM/G5 Lot1     MOJA         100
MIS/GIS Center HW and SW for BWSC-MRWC                                                    IWRM/G5 Lot2      MRWC         100
Laboratory Equipment (Base Parameter testers)                                              EM/G6 (Lot 1)    MRWC         100
Laboratory Equipment (Laboratory Ware)                                                     EM/G6 (Lot 2)    MRWC         100
Laboratory Equipment (Advanced Equipment)                                                  EM/G6 (Lot 4)    MRWC         100
Laboratory Equipment (Common Lab Equipment)                                                EM/G6 (Lot 5)    MRWC         100
Laboratory Equipment (Samplers)                                                            EM/G6 (Lot 6)    MRWC         100
Computer hardware & accessories for Central Control Unit (for MDOE)                            EM/G8        MOJA         100
Laboratory Equipment (for MDOE) + Portable field measurement instrument (for MDOE)             EM/G9        MOJA         100
Procurement of GPS                                                                            EM/G10        MOJA         100
Equipment (Camera, Trap camera, binocular)                                                    EM/G11        MOJA         100
Vehicles for CLO (2 Station Wagons 4 WD) under PPF Financing                                  PICS/G1       MOJA         100
Office Equipment for CLO (3 laptops)                                                      PICS/G2 (Lot 1)   MOJA         100
Office Equipment for CLO (Computer, Printer, Laptop)                                     PICS/G2 (Lot 2)    MOJA         100
Vehicles for MOJA PIU (2 Station Wagons 4 WD) under PPF Financing                             PICS/G3       MOJA         100
Office Equipment for MOJA PIU and I&D Consultants (Computer Equipment)                    PICS/G4 (Lot 1)   MOJA         100
Office Equipment for MOJA PIU and I&D Consultants (Audio Visual Equipment)                PICS/G4 (Lot 2)   MOJA         100
Office Equipment for MRWC (10 computers, 1 copier, 3 color printer, 2 black printer, 1
                                                                                          PICS/G6 (Lot 1)   MRWC        100
digital handy cam and 4 scanners)
Equipment for Training                                                                    PICS/G6 (Lot 2)   MRWC        100
Office Equipment for Rehabilitation of Committee/Meeting Rooms                            PICS/G6 (Lot 3)   MRWC        100
Equipment like computers, printers, copiers, mobile phones etc                               PICS/G7        MRWC        100
GPS, Total Stations                                                                          PICS/G8        MRWC        100
Equipping the PIU MOJA                                                                       PICS/G9        MOJA        100
Reversible heating and cooling system for conference MGRWC rooms & MGRWC PIU
                                                                                            PICS/G11        MRWC        100
office including installation costs
Communication equipment for CLO                                                           PICS/G13 Lot1     MOJA        100
Office furniture for CLO                                                                  PICS/G13 Lot2     MOJA        100




                                                                     44
3.3. Services

27.    The estimated cost for services in the Project Appraisal Document is US$14.71
million. Actual disbursement plans show that about US$11.38 million in MOJA and
US$5.78 million in MRWC was disbursed. Also, US$7.75 million in MOJA and
US$1.55 million in MRWC was disbursed from the Government of Iran fund.

28.     All of the above mentioned costs were disbursed under the actual contracts which
are presented below.

                 Description Contract                    Package Number                 Consultancy
Upper Watershed of Resources Management                      UWFM/CS1       DFS Deutsche Forestservice Gmbh
                                                                               Toseeh va ehyay manabee,payadari
Consultant for Detail Design (Babol Roud and Babolak)   UWFM/CS2-Lot 1
                                                                                      Tabieat va Manabe
                                                                            SNC-Lavalin&Hydrosult&Petro Peyman
Irrigation and Drainage Management Consultancy               IDM/CS1
                                                                            Pars
Women Extension Research Experts (12 experts)                IDM/CS2
                                                                            National Engineering Services
Integrated Water Resources and Environment Management    IWRM&EM/CS1
                                                                            Pakistan(NESPAK)
                                                                            Iran Center for Management Studies
Consultant for BWSC and BWF                                  IWRM/CS2
                                                                            (ICMS)
Environmental Studies                                         EM/CS2        Mahab Ghodss
                                                                            Mott Mac Donald Euro consult &
Project Management Support Consultancy                       PICS/CS1
                                                                            Yekom
International Procurement Advisor 2                      PICS/CS2 (Lot 1)   Harbaksh Sethi
International Procurement Advisor 1                      PICS/CS2 (Lot 2)   Harbaksh Sethi


3.4. Training

29.      Capacity building is an important component in AILWMP for two main reasons:

      a) Capacity building supports the implementation of the project, which in several
         aspects is innovative in nature. This requires new skills, new ways of working and
         new institutional and technical arrangements. Under the Alborz project several
         new organizations are developed: the Basin Soil and Water Management
         Committee, Basin Water Fund, WUAs and Watershed Cooperatives. Capacity
         building supports the introduction of these new approaches and the development
         of the new organizations; and
      b) A systematic and well-structured capacity building effort serves to document the
         different methodologies and plans which are prepared and implemented in
         AILWMP. It also helps to introduce lessons learned from the Alborz Land and
         Water Management Project in the rest of the country.

30.      In this regard, training budget has been incorporated in the consulting services
contracts; in addition to the estimated budget of training course, workshop and study
tours i.e. approximately US$2.5 million.




                                                        45
31.    During of project implementation, about 2230 person-day training courses were
held by international consultancies for farmers, orchardists, specialists and managers.
Subject matters included forest rangeland management, WUAs, participatory
management, environmental issues and water resources management, monitoring and
evaluation and project management. In addition, an international study visit of Malaysia
on water resources and environmental management was held by NESPAK on January
2010.

32.    Based on the training need assessment of the project, a comprehensive training
plan was prepared and US$0.63 million (US$0.40 million from the loan and US$0.23
Million from the Government of Iran fund) was disbursed for 1600 person - day training
courses for specialists of MJAO, PIU, MRWC, PIU, MNRD, MDOE, MOJA, CLO,
WUA’s members, farmers and orchardists. A Water User Association Study Visit to
China was held in July 2009 for the MRWC group and in July 2010 for MOJA group.

4. Summary of Completed Work

       Preparing Master Plan for Upper Watershed Resource Management;
       Assist in establishing Rangeland and Rural Women Cooperatives;
       Creating Basin Coordination Council for identification and introduction of Sub-
       projects which will be financed by BWF;
       Grass Planting, Fencing and Seedling of Rangeland, Maintenance of Forest Roads,
       Structural Soil Conservation Measure, Rehabilitation of degraded forests,
       Construction of access road, Improvement of Eco Tourism Places, Rangeland
       protection measures, Maintenance and Completion of Access on Forest Road,
       Land Slide stabilizing and construction of retaining wall;
       Establishing 19 Water User Associations (WUAs);
       Preparing agreement on Irrigation Management Transfer (IMT) to engage WUAs
       to implement O&M Irrigation and Drainage networks;
       Recruiting 12 women agricultural extension officers;
       Land consolidation (1068 hectares);
       Rehabilitation and improvement of water courses (300 km);
       Dredging of 11 abbandans (228 hectares);
       Canal lining in Qaemshahr, Babol, Jouybar (45 km);
       Construction of two pumping stations services in abbandans;
       Construction of lateral canals in Talar right bank;
       Canal lining (45 km);
       Establishing BWSC;
       Establishing MIS/GIS center;
       Monitoring and rehabilitation of forest and wildlife;
       Monitoring of water quality;
       Implementing Integrated Pest Management Plan;
       Creating Panel of Expert (POE) for dam safety;
       Implementing resettlement action plans;
       Construction of Ganj afrooz diversion dam and its main canal (3/7 Km)
       Construction of second phase of main canal (8/9 km);
       Construction of third phase of main canal (6 km);


                                          46
       Construction of Raees kola diversion dam & Raees kola canal (6/895 km) and
       Halidasht canals (1/35 km);
       Construction of Halidasht pumping station services and its canal (4/3 km);
       Upper watershed activities (15000 m3);
       Maintenance and completion of forest access roads (50 km);
       Rehabiliationof forest roads (13 km);
       Rehabilitation of rangeland in upper watershed (240 ha);
       Rehabilitation of degraded forests (200 ha);

5. Performance indicators

33.    The key outcome indicators of the project and current situation are as follows:

(a) Increased agricultural productivity (US$/ha),

34.     As against the appraisal with-out project estimates of gross revenue per ha of
US$1,442 and US$1,523 respectively for traditional and development areas, the with
project estimated gross revenue per ha has increased by 15% to 20% for the traditional
area and over 25% for the development area over the with-out project estimates
depending on the mix of crops a farmers chooses.

(b) Reduced soil erosion and sediment yields flowing into the Alborz Dam (m3 /s) and
other water bodies.

35.    Based on the investigations undertaken within the scope of Upper Watershed
Master Plan (UWMP) preparation, the sediment yields are 73% of the yields estimated at
Appraisal. The estimated sediment yields presented in the PAD are 412,000 m3 /year for
51,700 ha and it was reduced to 298,700 m3 /year for 51,700 ha at the end of the project.

(c) Improvement of river maintenance flow (m3 /s) and water quality on downstream
portion of the Babol River during the peak irrigation period

36.    The minimum flow in Babol River is estimated at 1.5 m3 /sec which is considered
adequate in terms of environmental considerations.

37.    The Intermediate Results Indicators for each project component are as follows:

Upper Watershed Management Component

(a) The area implementing watershed management plans (ha);

38.     Watershed management plans implemented at 20,000 ha by the two existing
forest cooperatives;

(b) Share of forestry areas managed by operational forestry cooperatives or similar
entities (%)



                                           47
39.    37% of areas managed by operational forestry cooperatives.

Irrigation and Drainage Management Component

(a) Area covered by rehabilitated or new irrigation and drainage systems (ha);

40.      At project end in 2015, there will be an estimated 36,178 ha of improved
irrigation and drainage land rehabilitated and an estimated 16,573 ha of new developed
irrigated and drainage land. At project close, there were 16,000 ha of improved land
rehabilitated and 4,000 ha of new irrigation land developed.

(b) The area benefiting from the improved irrigation and drainage system and
managed by functioning WUAs (ha) and O&M costs recovery ration (%);

41.    The actual share of area managed by WUAs is about 70%.

Integrated Water Resources Management Component

(a) A functioning Basin Water Council (BWC) that will take appropriate action for
basin-wide management of water resources with stakeholder involvement;

42.    Several meetings were held by BWC to discuss and provide guidance on all issues
concerning policy and strategy for Basin Management, overseeing the BWF, WUAs
functions and establishing a Basin database.

(b) Amount of Basin Water Fund used in response to community groups for funding
proposals

43.    BWF was not activated.

Environmental Management Component

(a) The establishment of fully functional hydrological and water quality monitoring
stations which provide data that can be used for effective WRM.

44.   Twenty water quality monitoring stations, 12 discharge gauge stations, and 3 min.
flow monitoring station have been installed.

(b) Unified annual basin-wide water monitoring report and database

45.     Both water quality and quantity monitoring are being carried out. The water
quality samples are tested at the CSERI laboratory.

Project Implementation Support Component

Number of component operational staff and consultants



                                          48
46.       Twenty-three specialists have been employed by PIUs and CLO.

6. Lessons Learned

6-1. Achievements

         Proper institutional coordination:
          The Alborz project was implemented by Project Implementation Units in MOJA
          and MRWC. PIU MOJA was responsible for on-farm, tertiary and quaternary
          irrigation, drainage and agricultural extension as well as forestry and rangeland
          management. MRWC PIU was responsible for the diversion weir and trunk
          irrigation networks from main to the secondary canal system. The Central liaison
          Office (CLO) was established as a focal point to ensure effective implementation
          and enhance coordination between the two PIUs and the World Bank. Creating
          these organizations had a great positive impact on project implementation.

         Establishing BWSC for the sustainability of the project:
          The BWSC was created in order to enhance coordination between the MJAO,
          MRWC, MDOE and all other stakeholders including upper watershed foresters,
          herders, and downstream irrigation-farmers, and also to sustain the Project and its
          achievements.

         Creating WUAs to share irrigation systems management between the
          stakeholders:
          The Alborz project supported decision-making on Integrated Water Resources
          Management at the lowest levels by including users through farm-level WUAs. In
          this regard, 19 WUAs were established in which 6 WUAs located in development
          area and 13 WUAs located in improvement area.

         Considering Environmental issues:
          The Alborz project triggered seven World Bank Safeguard Policies and facilitated
          solutions to basin-level water allocation and water quality problems and mitigated
          the potential negative effects of the Alborz Dam and protected the water
          environment of the downstream portion of the Babol River and other water bodies.

         Strengthening of the Procurement Unit:
          Procurement capacity of CLO was strengthened at the beginning of project
          implementation and it greatly facilitated project procurement implementation.
          National procurement specialists were able to successfully manage and coordinate
          procurement units in both PIUs. In light of above, several one/ day workshops as
          well as a five day workshop on Procurement and Financial Management
          Procedures was held by CLO procurement specialists. It was the first time in the
          history of the project that workshops were held fully relying on national capacities.

6-2 Challenges




                                               49
   Delay in effectiveness of the loan (6 months)

   Weakness of Project International Consultancies:
    Multiple difficulties were created at the beginning of project implementation
    because of existing weaknesses with international consultancy arrangements. The
    Project Management Support Consultancy (PMSC) couldn’t play an effective role
    in creating effective coordination between organizations and other consultancies.
    Changing various International Team Leaders and weaknesses of Technical
    Specialists (such as Training and environment specialists) had negative effects on
    PMSC’s operational performance. Quality of services and deliverables of the
    consultant were repetitively and constantly criticized by CLO, PIUs as well as the
    World Bank due to frequent changes of team leaders and specialists. This issue
    was communicated to the consultant several times however no remedial actions
    were observed. Continued downward quality of services of the consultant in
    addition to persistence and critiques of project stakeholders, obliged Yekom
    Consulting Engineers to partially terminate its cooperation with the joint venture
    and the project.

   Sanctions:
    About 2 years delay in transferring money and disbursing the loan were caused
    because of sanctions.

   Delay in opening Special Bank Accounts

   Time consumed in order to move special account from the commercial banks
    which were on the sanction list to commercial banks that were acceptable to the
    World Bank.

   Lack of Coordination between the two PIUs:
    Implementing of integrated projects requires close coordination between various
    organizations. Lack of coordination between the two PIUs was one of the most
    important obstacles in project implementation.

   Discrepancies between WB guidelines and local laws:
    Differences between WB guidelines and local laws have given rise to many
    questions asked by Financial Controller.

   Delay in issue of PAR code:
    The PAR Code was a limitation for timely payment of contractors/consultants
    invoices, especially when Iranian holidays do not coincide with those in other
    parts of the world.

   Delay in obtaining World Bank No-objection:
    Inadequate technical information prepared by international consultants was the
    main reason for delay in obtaining World Bank No-objection.




                                        50
           Lack of proper balance between disbursing amount from the loan and
            Government funding
        Changing various managers in PIU MOJA

6-3 Suggestions:

           Emergency Fund:
            The borrower should foresee emergency funds for critical situations such as those
            experienced over the last 2 years of project implementation.

           Problems of Transferring Money:
            The current problems for transferring money to the project demonstrate that the
            World Bank should find a safe and infallible way to transfer funds to the projects.

           Establishing World Bank Office in Borrower Country:
            Establishment of a local WB office in Tehran would have beeen of great help in
            the project procurement process.

           Preparing bidding documents before the effectiveness of the loan:
            To ensure the best progress rate in the project, the borrower should prepare the
            bidding documents for selection of consultants and contractors before the
            effectiveness of the loan.

7-1 Action Plan:

47.    As AILWMP loan agreement has ended and payments through the World Bank
loan no longer applicable, project executing agencies in both MRWC and Jihad-e-
Agriculture intend to make payments through local funds. In this regard, the time
schedule for performing activities by MRWC are as follows:
                                                                   Progress till now    Date of     Required
                            Activities                                                               Budget
                                                                         (%)           Completion   (US$ Million)

Network Rehabilitation System- Pakage W101- Babolrood Right Bank         48 %           Mar 2014       1.05

Network Rehabilitation System- Package W102                              20%            Mar 2014       4.00

Network Rehabilitation System- Package W103- Talar right bank            16%            Mar 2014       3.80
                                                                                          Mar
Package W204 for MD2-C24 and C25                                         30%                           8.40
                                                                                          2015
                                                                                          Mar
Package W205 for a new system of Talarright bank                         52%                           3.80
                                                                                          2014
Total                                                                                                21.05


48.    Moreover, packages W206 for a new system of Siyahrood left bank have not been
entered into bid due to a shortage of local and loan funds and it is anticipated that this
package will be entered for bid in 2013 with US$ 45 million and be completed by Sept.
2014. The time schedule for MJAO activities are as follows:




                                                            51
                                                                                   Progress till     Date of        Required
                                    Activities                                                                       Budget
                                                                                    now (%)         Completion      (US$ Million)

Packages W44 and W31 related to completion and rehabilitation of 12 km of
                                                                                      80 %           May 2013         0.057
forest access road and 4.3 km of Ghozak-Roodbar road.
Packages W301 related to construction tertiary drainage and the canal system-
                                                                                       40%         September 2013       4.7
Talar right bank
Packages W502- lot 5,2,6 related to the lining of irrigation canals for villages
                                                                                       74%           May 2013          0.30
Ghaemshahr, Babol and Jooybar

Consultant for detail Design (UWFMCS2 (lot1)                                           50%           June 2013         0.15

Total                                                                                                                  5.2


49.     Moreover, packages W302, W303A, W303B, W304B related to the construction
of secondary system at lower watershed lands which have been deleted from the project
procurement plan due to lack of sufficient funds, will be entered into bid with a budget of
US$52 million by MRWC for completing the construction of the main canals and will be
finished within the next two years.

50.     It should be noted that if the required budget will be provided on time by the
government in agreements of future years, all the packages will be completed within the
next three years.




                                                                   52
     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    53
                   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document (Report Number 30233-IR). Alborz Integrated Land
    and Water Management Project (February 11, 2005).

   Loan Agreement - Loan number 4782-IRN – June 27, 2005.

   Supervision Missions’ Aide Memoires from 2003 to 2010.

   Implementation Status Reports 1 to 14.

   Mid Term Review Report, April/May 2010.

   Review Preparation Report, Volumes 1, 2 & 3, June, 2010, Central Liaison Office,
    AILWMP (Mott MacDonald).

   Summary of the PMSC Input, December, 2012, Mott MacDonald.




                                       54
                                     IRAN ALBORZ INTEGRATED LAND AND WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




Alborz Dam core rock fill dam with 78 m in height, 838 m in crest length, 150 million                           Morning glory spillway
m3 (mcm) in reservoir capacity (out of which 122 mcm for live storage). The purpose of   This type of spillway is basically a giant cement funnel. Rather than
    the dam is irrigation (54,000 ha), drinking water supply, hydropower (10 MW),               spilling over the dam, high waters spill into the funnel.
                    environmental in-stream flow, and flood control                       Morning glory spillways are also known as bell-mouth spillways.




                                                                                                                    Reiskola weir.
                      Main irrigation conveyor canal – completed
                  18.6 km, capacity 24 m3/s - benefits 77,000 farmers

                                                                             55
                 Halidasht irrigation pumping station. Completed in 2012. Total capacity 630 liters per second




Pumps: centrifugal volute casing type; capacity each 210
            liters per secod; head 52 meters




                                                              56
                                   Watershed management




Gabian wall for erosion control.                     Creation of protected area against grazing by sheep.




  Forest road rehabilitated.                       Small check dam for soil and water erosion control.




                                           57
                                                       Watershed management component




               Contract number WFM/W5 (Lot3)                                              Contract number UWFM/
                   Rehabilitated forest road.                                                  Protected area.




              Contract number UWFM/W2 (Lot2)                                            Check dam for erosion control.
Drinking water for sheep and goats (grazing allowed in this area)..




                                                                      58
Water Users Associations




          59
                             Tertiary canals under construction




Contract number IDM/W502(Lot2)                                    Contract number IDM/W502 (Lot6)




                                                                  Contract number IDM/W406 (Lot 1)
                                                                            Small reservoir.




                                            60
                                       Machinery / Water Users Association




     Contract number IDM/G14 Lot 2&4                                  Contract number IDM/G14 Lot 2&4
Machinery for operation and maintenance (2012).                  Machinery for operation and maintenance (2012).




    Water users association building (2011).                     Entrance water users association building (2011).



                                                       61
Water Users Associations




                           62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sea
                                PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY                                                                                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                   ALBORZ INTEGRATED LAND AND                                                                                                         ia                     n                                                             ver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Casp
                                SUB PROJECT BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ri
                                                                                                                                   WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S i ah
                                NEW CANALS:
                                         BANK FINANCED MAIN CANALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Larim
                                         BANK FINANCED PRIMARY CANALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mahdudehshahr
                                         GOVERNMENT FINANCED MAIN CANAL


                                NEW DAMS/WEIRS:                                                                                                                          Babolsar
                                         BANK FINANCED DIVERSION WEIR                                                                                                   Mian Dashe Rubber Weir
                                         GOVERNMENT FINANCED EXISTING WEIR
                                         GOVERNMENT FINANCED DIVERSION WEIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bahnamir
                                         (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)

                                         GOVERNMENT FINANCED EXISTING STORAGE DAM                                                                                                          V   ICE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                         GAS PIP ELINE SER
                                         GOVERNMENT FINANCED STORAGE DAM
                                         (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Joybar

                                NEW DRAINS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T ala r
                                         BANK FINANCED MAIN DRAIN

                                         BANK FINANCED PRIMARY DRAINS

                                         BANK FINANCED SECONDARY DRAINS

                                BANK FINANCED PIPELINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kiakola
                                GOVERNMENT FINANCED DIVERSION TUNNEL

                                FUTURE RESERVOIR
                                CANAL SYSTEMS (BANK FINANCED REHABILITATION)

                                BANK FINANCED PUMP STATIONS                                                                                                                          Babol
                                MONITORING WELLS
                                GAUGING STATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i ver
                                OTHER MONITORING POINTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  h R
                                EXISTING TRADITIONAL IRRIGATION AREAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Si a
                                                                                                                                                                           er
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ba


                                                                                                                                                                        Riv
                                NEW IRRIGATION AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                      bo
                                                                                                                                                                                        lR
                                                                                                                                                                   sh




                                                                                                                                                                                        iv e

                                OFF STREAM STORAGE PONDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pipeline
                                                                                                                                                              Kho




                                                                                                                                                                                         r

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ghaemshar
                                (BANK FINANCED REHABILITATION)
                                                                                                                                                                    Me




                                BUILT-UP AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                      talo




                                ASPHALT ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                          n River




                                NON ASPHALT ROADS

                                RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ghaemshahr

                                                                                                                                                                              Shiadeh
                  IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                                                                                                                Dam
                             DEVELOPMENT AREA SCHEMATIC
                                                                                                                                      Siahro




                                                                                                                                                                             Ganj-afrooz                                 Pipeline
                                                                                                                                        ud Riv




                                                                                                                                                                           Diversion Weir                                Helidasht                                                                                     Toji R iver
                                                        TLB3               TRB3
                                                                                                                                               er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Berenjestonak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                               er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Talar River
                                                                                                                                                                                             Riv




                           Mian Dasht Weir                                                                          SLB2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Shilga
                                                                                                                                                                                             ad
                                                                                                                                                                                         Saj




                        BRB3                                                                                                                                                                                          Reiskola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Diversion Weir
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Marzl Kal      Reiskola
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Klorl Kala                 Siah Darka



                                                  BRB2

                                                                                                        TRB2                                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   abo




                                                                       TLB2                                                                                                                                      Drazkola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                           Talar Riv




                                                                                                                  SLB1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                                                       TRB1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REP. OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sonbol
                                                                                              er
                                          Babol Rive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Roud
                                                    r




                                                                                                                                                                                                            M I D D L E                                      L A N D
                                                                                TLB1
                    Ganj-afrooz                                                                                   BRB    IRRIGATION AND
                 Diversion Weir                                                                                          DRAINAGE SUB AREAS                                                                              Babolak                             r                   Alborz Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ive




                                                        BRB1                                                                                                                                                          Diversion Weir                     R
                                                                                                                         MAJOR URBAN AREAS                                                                                                           d                               Dam Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              d ru
                                                                                                                               0                    5                                                                                 Saj o
                                Reiskola
                          Diversion Weir                                                                                           KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Water
                           AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Az
                                ME         AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                           Transmission
                 TURKEY              N                           50                         55                         60               UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.                                                ar R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Karsang R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tunnel                     im                                                            v er
                                     IA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i




                                                                                                          TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l




                                                                      Caspian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Aska




                                                                        Sea


                                                                  -
                                                                 MAZANDARAN
                                                                           -         - -
                                                                                    Sari
                                                                    PROVINCE               Babol, Talas, and Siah
                                                           TEHRAN                          Rivers Watershed
                   IRAQ                                                        For detail, For detail,
                                                                                                                                                    35
                                                                                                                                                                                                          U P P E R                         L A N D
                                                                                see Main see IBRD 33339
                                                                               Map, right


                                                                        ISLAMIC                                                      AFGHANISTAN

                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          IRAN
                 30                                                                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0      1       2        3    4       5
                                          KUWAIT
                                                                                                                                                        PAKISTAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS



                                                               Persian
                                                                  BAHRAIN
SEPTEMBER 2004




                          SAUDI                                            Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33254




                          ARABIA                                                                                                                    25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 25                                               QATAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                               Gulf of Oman                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                        Arabian                                                                                                                                                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  45                                      50
                                                                                   UNITED ARAB
                                                                                                        OMAN                   60
                                                                                                                                          Sea                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                    EMIRATES
                                         52°30'                                                                                                                         52°45'                                                                                                53°00'                                                                           53°15'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N ek
                                                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a R
                           ALBORZ INTEGRATED LAND AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Casp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          iver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ISLAMIC
                           WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REP. OF IRAN


                  36°45'                          BABOL, TALAR, AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36°45'

                                               SIAH RIVERS WATERSHED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Siahr
                                                                                                                                 Babolsar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ood River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tajan
                           Feraidoonkenar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r o od
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Astanehsar                                                                                                                                                 Neka
                                                                                                                                 Azizak




                                                                                                                                                                                   T ala r R
                                                                                                                                                                                           v er                                                                                                                                                                                                   L a ks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        haro




                                                                                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                            Amir-Kola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            od




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sari




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 k ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Siah
                                          Riv e r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rood




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Roud
                                                                                                                                                    Babol                                                                                                                                                                        k o la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Asbo
                                     od
                                 ikro
                            Bar




                  36°30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36°30'

                                                                                             rood
                                                                                         ro n
                                                                             ho




                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ghaemshahr
                                         er
                                                                                          Kola Ro u d




                                ari Ri v                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Roud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Siah
                          K




                                                                                                                                                    Ba b ol




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        h R
                                                                                                                                                         Rive r
                                                                                                        M e t a lon R i v e r


                                                                                                                                      o od




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salardare
                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                Saja




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T oj i R i v er
                                                       d
                                                   u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T ajo n
                                             Boz Ro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ri v e r                                                                       River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mr
                                                                                                                                      Nola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Roshanab Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lac
                                                                                                                                          k River
                                                                       Tazeh




                                                                                                                                                           Alborz
                                                                                                                                                          Reservoir
                                                                             R oud




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             er
                                                                                                                                                          Dam Site
                  36°15'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36°15'

                                                                                                                                                 drud Riv e r                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Shi
                                                                                                                                             Sajo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rin
                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                 Riv e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                              A za




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     od
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rR
                                                                                                                                                                       Askalim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          iv e r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kar s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ka
                                                                                                                                                     Babolak River




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 slia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIver




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               v er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         kR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ala


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ral                             er
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cha                              Riv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ou




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sh
                  36°00'                                                                                                                                                                                             S he                                                                                                                                                                                               36°00'




                                                             0          2            4           6                 8            10

                                                                              KILOMETERS

                                         52°30'                                                                                                                         52°45'

                           AR
                                ME        AZERBAIJAN             50°                                                 55°                                         60°                 UZBEKISTAN
                 TURKEY              N
                                     IA




                                                                      Caspian                                                          TURKMENISTAN
                                                                        Sea


                                                                  -
                                                                 MAZANDARAN
                                                                               -                 - -
                                                                                                Sari
                                                                    PROVINCE                                Babol, Talar, and Siah
                                                                                                            Rivers Watershed
                                                       TEHRAN                                                                                                                                     35°
                   IRAQ                                                                                     For detail,
                                                                  For detail,                               see Main Map                                                                                           35°45'                                                                                                                                                                                               35°45'
                                                            see IBRD 33254


                                                                        ISLAMIC                                                                                              AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BABOL, TALAR, AND SIAH RIVERS WATERSHED
                                                                          IRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GOVERNMENT FINANCED STORAGE DAM
                 30°                                                                                                                                                                              30°                                                                         (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
                                         KUWAIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FUTURE RESERVOIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAKISTAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERS

                                                             Persian                                                                                                                                                                                                          BUILT-UP AREAS
                                                                  BAHRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                          SAUDI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33339




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                          ARABIA                                                                                                                                                                  25°
                 25°                                               QATAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                            Gulf of Oman                          Arabian
                                                                                             UNITED ARAB                                                                            Sea                                                                                       53°00'                                                                           53°15'
                  45°                                      50°                                EMIRATES                               OMAN                              60°
