Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8441
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1961-TUN)
MARCH 16, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Afrie~a Regional Office
7his document has a reicted dsbution and may be sed by recipetsondy In de peforanue of
dth  offii  duties. Its conten  may not otherwie be diclosed withbot Wodd Bank authwoizatW



ATC    - Apprentice Training Center
CFP    - Vocational Training Center
OFPE   - Officer for vocation Training and Employment
OPS    - Operational Policy Staff
PCR    - Project Completion Report
SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report
VT     - Vocational Training
VTC    - Vocational Training Center                    r
Evolution of the scxhanme Rates
At appraisal       02-81  US$ 1 - Dinar .4000    TD 1 - US$ 2.5
Period average     1981   US$ 1 - Dinar .4938      TD 1 - US$ 2.025
U n    ~ 1982   US$ 1 - Dinar .5907       TD 1 - US$ 1.692
1983   US$ 1 - Dinar .6788      TD 1 - US$ 1.473
1984   US$ 1 - Dinar .7768      TD 1 - US$ 1.287
1985   US$ 1 - Dinar .8345      TD 1 - US$ 1.198
e   a     1986   US$ 1 - Dinar .7940    TD 1 - US$ 1.259
*  U      1987   US$ 1 - Dinar .8287      TD 1 - US$ 1.207
1st semester
1988 average        US$ 1 - Dinar .8516     TD 1 - US$ 1.174
Estimated project's
life average       81/88  US$ 1 - Dinar .8333      TD 1 - US$ 1.200



w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b     
VOl OFIICIAL USEOLY
T1E WORLD BANK
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.
OPsra' EVhAetia
March 16, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUU'ECT:   Project Completion Report:  TUNISIA - Fourth Education
Proiect (Loan 1961-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Tunisia - Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1961-TUN)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
Attachment
IThi documeant ha a _u   disuibutio an may be udby mci&ts oIn  he pfotem*me
of th_ ofiew dtiuie Its cononts mayrnot othorEe be dmiscBd witbot Wodd IBank aut  |m



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUISIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(WAN 1961-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag2 No.
Preface                                                                  i
Evaluation Summary                                                      ii
PART I -   Project Review from Bank's Perspective .1
Project Identity.                                           1
Project Background ....................                     1
Project Objectives and Description.                         2
Project Design and Organization.                            3
Project Implementation.                                     4
Project Results.                                            6
Bank Performance.                                           9
Borrower Performance ....................                   9
Consulting Services .................................       9
Project Documentation and Data .....     .................  10
Project Sustainability ..............................      10
PART II - Project Review from Borrower's Perspective .... .......      13
Objectives  ..........................................     11
Original Loan Amount ..................                    11
The Amendment dated April 21, 1986 .11
Extension of Closing Date .11
Delays in Project Execution .12
Status of Components .12
Evaluation of Civil Works Components, Conclusions          13
Evaluation of Equipment Component, Conclusions             14
Quantitative Aspect of the Project .14
Financial Aspect of the Project .15
Action Plan to Finalize Payments on
IBRD Loan TUN-1961 .17
Annex 1 - Breakdown of Componants of IBRD-
Financed Projects .19
Annex 2 - Quantitative Aspect of Project .20
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont"d)
PART III - Statistical Information ..............................                      21
Related Bank Loans ..................................                    21
Project Timetable ...................................                    21
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .......                    22
Project Implementation ..............................                    23
Project Costs and Financing .........................                    25
Project Resu.ts ...........          ..........................          26
Status of Covenants .........           ........................         27
Use of Bank Resources ........            .......................        28
Annex I - Comparative Schedule of Implementation ....                    30
Annex II - Evolution of the Exchange Rates ....             ......       32



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
rUNISI
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1961-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Fourth
Education Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 1961-TUN in the amount of
US$26 million was approved in March 1981. The Loan was closed on December
31, 1988, two years behind schedule.   Following a cancellation of US$5
million in April 1986, the reduced Loan of US$21 million was disbursed
except for a balance of US$1.8 million which was cancelled.   The last
disbursement was made on October 5, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human
Resources Operations Division,  Country Department II, EMENA Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission in December 1988, and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report and Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; ana internai BianK
memoranda.



- it -
PROJECT CONPtETION REPOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1961-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The objectives of the Fourth Education Project in Tunisia were:
(i) to increase the supply of techntical manpower at skilled worker and
lower technician levels through the establishment of seven new
vocational training centers (VTCs) and one apprentice training
center (ATC), and the expansion of 13 existing VTCs and 2 ATCs;
(ii) to improve the quality of existing training centers through the
re-equipping of four VTCs and the ATC; and
(iii) training related to project management and specialist services to
assist with long-term planning.
2.       Implementing agency was the Office for Vocational Training and
Employment (OFPE), an autonomous organization under the umbrella of the
Ministry of .abor.  A Bank loan in the amount of US$ 26 million was to
support this project (paras. 2-4).
IJmRalentaLon ExZlerience
3.       Loan 1961-TUN was approved on March 26, 1981 and became effective
on November 18, 1981.   It experienced delays in implementation stemming,
first, from Borrower/Bank disagreement on space standards which slowed down
the architectural design work and all subsequent activities, then the
absence of a project coordinator foreseen for the first three years of
implementation, and the part-time work of the PIU director. The PIU was
rather inexperienced, particularly with procurement procedures and
disbursement questions, but improved its performance considerably over the
course of implementation. As an extraneous complication, two contractors
bankrupted before their tasks were completed (para. 11).
4.       A Loan Agreement modification in April 1986 cancelled US$ 5
million (19% of Loan funds), increased the civil works disbursement
percentage from 26% to 50%, and changed the mix of project activities: the
ATCs were removed from the list of project institutions (their role to be
assumed in part by existing VTCs), and three/two other VTCs were to benefit
from upgrading and extension/new construction program.   In addition, two
mobile training units were included in the project. The diminished Loan
was disbursed except for US$1.8 million, and the accounts closed on October
5, 1989, after an extension of the Closing Date from December 31, 1986 to
December 31, 1988 (para. 12).



- iii -
FLesults
5.       The project has led to the establishment of a modern, well
equipped vocational training system which is able to offer Its trainses
much more practical instruction than used to be the case in the older and
under-equipped facilities (para. 15).
6.       Its impact on the labor market is difficult to assess, as the
trade system established in accordance with the Loan Agreement is not yet
operational.   In addition, the present downturn in economic activities
appears temporarily to disguise the longer-term demands of the economy for
technical manpower (para. 16).
Sustainabi_lity
7.       The VTCs appear to be running on a tight budget, reflecting the
general budgetary austerity. The Government has responded to diminishing
demand for training in specific areas (e.g., construction) reflecting the
present downturn of economic activities by a temporary consolidation of
training programs. On the whole, this realistic attitude and the obvious
policy support the vocational system enjoys bodes well for its future. The
advisory councils should contribute to a better dovetailing of training
programs with the needs of the economy.   Finally, the gradual shift of
vocational training to a se:toral training concept is seen as achieving a
greater degree of program flexibility (para. 25).
Firinzs and Las sp  laarn1d
8.       The project experience confirms, first, the great difficulties in
setting up an effective trade (or more generally, output monitoring) system
and second, the importance of flexibility in the institutional arrangements
for vocational training.



*1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1961-U)
PART x
Prolect Review from Bank's Pergpective-
I.    Prolect Identity
Project Name:        Fourth Education Project
Loan Number:         1961 TUN
Country:             Tunisia
Sector:              Education
Subsector:           Vocational Training
Loan Amount:         $26 million - reduced to $21 million
in April 1986.
Board Approval:      March 1981
Effectiveness:       November 1981
Original Closing
Date:               December 31, 1986
Actual Closing
Date:               December 31, 1988
II.      Proiect Background
1.       In the 70's, Tunisia experienced a rapid economic growth, result-
ing in impressive social gains, particularly in education.   Employment
generation to reduce unemployment (around 15% in the late 70's) and absorb
the increasing annual additions to the work force were among the main
priorities of Tunisia's development strategy. The 1982-86 Plan in prepara-
tion at the time of identification of the Fourth Education Project defined
a strategy of job creation through increased investment in manufacturing
industries and an accompanying effort in expanding vocational and technical
training to meet the country's skilled manpower needs, in the context of a
lessening reliance on overseas employment for Tunisian workers (by 1979
only about 2% of the Tunisian labor force was working abroad, as compared
to about 13% in 1971).



- 2 -
2.       The Fourth Education Project (US$26 million,  FY81) aimed at
expanding training opportunities for school leavers, upgrading the skills
of the workforce and broadening the range of adult training opportunities.
This was to be done through the establishment of new centers and creation
of new sections and the expansion and upgrading of the apprenticeship
training scheme. In addition, the project aimed at reinforcing the insti-
tutional and training capacity of the Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens A
l'Entranger, de VEmploi et de la Formation Professionnelle (known as
l'Office), the agency responsibl2 for vocational training (VT) within the
Ministry of Social Affairs.
III.     Project Obiectives and Description
3.       Project Objectives:  The project was designed to:
(a) increase the supply of skilled technical manpower in response
to regional employment needs through the establishment of
seven new vecational training centers (VTC's) and the addi-
tion of new sections to the e-xisting centers;
(b) improve the quality of vocational training and apprentice
training by re-equipping poorly equipped workshops; and
(c) assist in the development and strengthening of the
vocational/apprenticeship training systems through the
financing of technical assistance related to the organization
planning, management and evaluation of the Office's opera-
tions, together with staff training.
4.       Project Components:  These objectives were to be achieved through:
(a) Construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i) seven new vocational training centers;
(ii) a new apprentice training center;
(iii) extensions to 13 existing vocational and 2
apprentice training centers;
(b) furniture and equipment for re-equipping four vocational
centers and one apprentice center; and
(c) technical expertise to assist in long-term planning of the
vocational training system, and training related to project
management.



IV.      Project DeaiBn and Orjanizatton
5.       By the m'd 70's, the Tunisian authorities emphasized the need to
make education and training more relevant to the needs of the economy and
labor market. With the Third Education Project, the Bank had endorsed the
shift of emphasis from general to technical education. The Project helped
introduce practical work into grades 5 and 6 by prov!ding workshops for
primary schools and the expansion or equipping of some primary teacher
training colleges so that they couild train practical teachers for the work-
shops.  The authorities, however, were increasingly aware of the need to
address pressing issues such as: (i) lack of coordination between training
institutions and employers; (ii) limited relevance of training programs to
the needs of the labor market; and (4ii) insufficient participation of
employers in training efforts. The Government had started to address this
probl m through the creation of advisury councils, with strong local
emplo>ar representation for each so-hool and vocational training center, and
regional councils comprising trainers/teachers, administrators and employ-
ers to provide a broader perspective on employment needs.
6.       In the fall of 1977, the Tunisian Government formally requested
Bank assistance in the field of vocational training.   In light of the
implementation problems the Third Education Project was experiencing at the
time (after loan effectiveness, the Government had reconsidered its educa-
tion priorities and did not wish to proceed with the project as appraised),
the Bank was reluctant to launch another operation in the education sector.
Moreover, the Third Education Project provided for a study of the relation-
ships between the education/training system and the job market with the
objective of establishing a viable employment policy for the 1977-81 Plan,
on which the Bank wished to anchor its future assistance.
7.       Project definition and preparation was a lengthy and intermittent
process which spanned over three years (until post-appraisal mission of
September 80).   This was due essentially to two unrelated reasons, one
concerning strategy, and the other technical differences of opinion. The
Tunisian Government was in the process of defining its strategy on voca-
tional and apprentice training, tackling the issues related to planning,
coordination and future directions.   At the same time, Office and Bank
staff were identifying and preparing project components without concerning
themselves too much about the relationship to the overall country strategy
on VT.   In fact, project appraisal was delayed by nine months at the
Minister of Planning's request, while the various government ministries and
agencies involved in the policy formulation finalized a strategy.
8.       Secondly,  project preparation was slowed down by prolonged
technical discussions between government and Bank staff on two matters:
workshop equipment costs and space standards for training centers.   The
Government equipment cost estimates, based on French market prices, were
substantially higher than the Bank's estimates, based on Bank norms for
vocational training and on 1980 prices, likely to be quoted under ICB.
Reconciliation of the c nt estimates only occurred during a post-appraisal



- 4 -
mission. An increase in the loan amount resolved the issue.   Lengthy
debaves on space standards delayed the preparation of architectural
designs, resulting not only in delayed preparation but in a ons-year imple-
mentation de'ay. The debates, however, were not fruitless since the agreed
space standards were in fact implemented.
9.       These delays could have been, if not entirely avoided, certainly
lessened with more careful planning, both on the Bank and the Government's
side. But a more lasting impact of the intense focus on technical issues
was the relative neglect. of broader institution building objectives.
Although provision was made in the project for technical assistance to the
Office, it was mainly targetted for expertise in procurement and in super-
vision of civil works. Limited provision (18% of all technical assistance)
was made for expertise in vocational training systems, programs, monitoring
and evaluation, and assessment of relevance to labor market.   During
project preparation, an OPS education advisor expressed concern that this
was primarily a hardware project and that 95% of project financing was
going to provision of physical facilities, equipment and furniture.   No
answer is recorded in the project files.
V.       Project Implementation
10.      There were three salient aspects of implementation:  (1) substan-
tial delays in start up activities and slower than anticipated implemen-
tation;  (ii) changes in project designs and cancellation of a portion of
the lean; and  (iii) partial success of the technical assistance component.
These points are discussed more extensively below.
11.      Delavs in Droject implementation.   From the very beginning, the
project experienced substantial delays (see Annex I for Comparative
Implementation Schedule):   the lengthy debates on space standards that
slowed down the preparation of the project also delayed the preparation of
architectural designs, resulting in a one-year postponement of the
construction program.   Project implementation also suffered from the
absence of a project coordinator, an expert from outside the Office's
structure to be hired for the first three years of implementation.  His
terms of reference, presented in a Supplemental Letter to the Loan
Agreement, were the following: (i) assure the planning, coordination and
monitoring of all project components (construction, equipment, recruitment
and training of VTC trainers and administrative staff; (ii) organize end
rationalize the VT system by analyzing and making recommendations for
changes on selection, orientation and examination procedures, curriculum
development and trainer recruitment procedures; and   (iii) design and
Implement a cost analysis system. Some of the coordinator's functions were
ssumed by the project unit, headed by one of the directors of the Office
who, while project director, maintained his other functions. The functions
the unit assume'd were essentially those related to the planning and imple-
mentation of the construction and equipment components. The unit, fairly
inexperienced at the start of the project, was understandably fully
occupied with the implementation o' these components, a task which was at
the core of its terms of reference. Its initial inexperience resulted in
substantial delays in establishing adequate procurement procedures and,



later on, an effective reimbursement mechanism. Over time, however, the
unit became quite adept in both. One may wonder if there would not have
been partial duplication of assignments, had the coordinator been hired.
However, the coordinator's functions pertaining to the software aspects of
the project (analysis of selection/orientation procedures, programs devel-
opment and evaluation, and cost analysis of training) were altogether
neglected, the nomination of a coordinator (four years into project imple-
mentation) remaining a fact on paper only. Again, the limited attention
given to the technical assistance component was felt in this aspect of the
project (the project coordinator was to be assisted by expertise outside
the Office in his assessment of the VT delivery system). The hiring of the
project coordinator before the start of project execution may have pre-
vented start up delays and facilitated the use of technical assistance. To
ensure satisfactory implementation, the Bank should insist that the
appointment of key managers be a condition of loan effectiveness. Finally,
the bankruptcy of two contractors also contributed to the extensive delays
observed.
12.      Changes in project design.  In April 1986, the Loan Agreement was
amended to: (i) replace the construction and equipping of the four appren-
tice centers with the further upgrading and extension of three of the VTCs
already covered by the Project and the inclusion into the project of two
additional VTCs;   (ii) increase the disbursement percentages for civil
works from 26% to 50%; and (iii) cancel US$ 5 million, out of the US$ 26
million loan. The Government decided, and the Bank concurred, to utilize
existing VTCs to accommodate apprenticeship programs, by keeping the VTCs
open after hours and on holidays.   In addition, on-site training was
encouraged a a more efficient training delivery method, particularly in
remote areas. The funds made available by the cancellation of the appren-
tice centers were utilized to expand and equip two new VTCs workshops and
equip two others, in order to enhance teacher effectiveness, often impaired
by poorly equipped and inadequate training facilities. These funds were
further utilized to purchase two mobile units for training truck drivers
and for maintenance training. This new aspect of the project reflected the
interest in flexible, low cost, ad hoc training programs to meet the chang-
ing manpower needs of the country. The Bank was confident that the Office
could absorb the additional recurrent expenditures, which proved to be
true. In countries where labor markets evolve rapidly, project description
should be flexible enough to be easily adapted to changing manpower needs
(see also para. 16 on the type of facilities and training most adapted to
evolving labor needs).   At the same time, disbursement percentages for
civil works were increased from 26% to 50%, to reflect the actual indirect
foreign exchange cost of civil works 'ecently observed in the project -
since appraisal, the Tunisian Dinar/US dollar exchange rate had moved at a
faster rate than the differential inflation between local and foreign
costs. Finally, it was also decided to cancel US$ 5 million (or 19%) of
the loan, in light of the favorable trend of the dollar exchange rate as
opposed to the currencies used to purchase equipment. By 1986, the Dinar
purchasing power of the Bank loan had doubled from the time of appraisal.
(See page 14 for revisions to project costs expressed in dollars, reflect-
ing favorable exchange rate fluctuation and Annex II for evolution of
exchange rates during the life of the project).



- 6 -
13.      Utilization of technical assistance.  Lack of attention to tech-
nical assistance for long-term system development had the effect of TA
largely being used for alternative purposes, mainly for the preparation of
equipment lists and for other activities related to the physical aspects of
the project.  About 26 months of expert services were used for architec-
tural design and for the inventory and evaluation of the Office's infra-
structure azn equipment. An additional 24 months were used in 1988, more
as a res.a_   of the formulation of the reform package leading to the
Education and Training Sector Loan (FY 89) than in the framework of the
Fourth Education Project. In June 1988, the Office's mandate was expanded
to include the supervision of labor market 'ctivities and the coordination
of all training activities in the country. UNDP has designed a technical
assistance program to assist the Office in implementing its new organiza-
tLonal structure and strengthen its human resources.  The program is co-
financed by the Bank and is executed by ILO. Finally, foreign fellowships
for about 370 persons (both trainers and administrative staff) were granted
under the project. Very little of the Bank's loan proceeds were used for
that purpose, however, since the Office had access to various bilateral
funds.
14.      ProsLet Risk:  The Staff Appraisal Report is silent on project
risks.  It did, however, state that, although the project was the first
operation between the Bank and the Office, the latter had a core staff of
experienced administrators Pnd technicians (presumably competent enough to
successfully implement the pcoject). This assessment was overly optimistic
as is explained in para. 20.   In most SARs, risk assessment is often
limited to the physical execution of the project.   Particular attention
should be given to evaluating the risks involved with the potential lack of
action on institution building and other 'software' components of a
project. The other important risk that the SAR could have identified was
the unavailability of counterpart funding, a problem which slowed down
several other projects at the time.   As it turns out, this was not a
problem, in spite of the economic downturn the Tunisian economy experi-
enced during part of the life of the project.   Owing to slow implemen-
tation, the demand for counterpart funds was stretched out over a longer
time frame than anticipated, thus making yearly Government funding of the
project much more manageable.
VI.      Project Results
15.      Phvsical Facilities:  As a result of the project, the VT system of
the country now has physical installations that are being used for quality
training. The project impacted on 26 VTCS run by l'Office, of which 7 were
created under the project, 14 were expanded and upgraded, and 5 were
reequipped. The expansion of the Office VTC system had an important impact
on training conditions. Where, prior to the project, there had been only
four to eight fully equipped training places in a workshop enrolling 16
trainees, there are now 16 well equipped training places. Consequently,
trainees receive much more hands-on training. This overall picture is true
for all centers affected by the re-equipping program, although it cannot be
quantified in the same way for all specializations.



*                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~7 -
16.     Oualitative Results:   The project called for (and made it a
covenant in the Loan Agreement) the design of a tracer system and the
carrying out of tracer studies for the graduates of each project insti-
tution for five years after the first group of trainees graduated. It also
called for the creation of advisory councils, essentially a group of local
employers, to ensure close links with industry and the continued relevance
of training to labor market needs.   These advisory councils have been
established and are functioning well:  it is with their guidance, among
other, that the Office reorients its training programs.   They remain,
however, a mostly informal and incomplete mechanism for following up on
graduates' employment and can, at best, provide a limited share of the
information the tracer studies were meant to furnish.   A formal tracer
system was not established. Although not specifically identified in his
terms of reference, it is in all likelihood one of the project coordi-
nator's many tasks which were never carried out.  Formal tracer studies
were never carried out either.  As the table below shows, the relative
importance of trades taught in the project VTCs have evolved over the life
of the project and reflect more recent industry needs.  This information
remains at the level of secondary observation.   Detailed studies of
graduate outcome are still needed to fully assess the relevance of the
training. When discussing the relevance of training, the issue of rapidity
of responsiveness must be addressed.  The lead time involved in planning
and creating new facilities, both in their hardware and software contents,
is longer than the pace at which industry needs change.   The sectoral
training center approach, to be implemented under the forthcoming Education
and Training Sector Loan, will enable the Office to respond rapidly and
flexibly to changing labor market demand: existing VTCs' will be converted
into sector dedicated training centers catering to the needs of specific
industries and services. The conversions will be implemented on the basis
of sub-projects prepared by the Office and industry associations.
Production Capacity of the Office by Spiecialty
Before the urolect    At roiect coemletion (a)    X Increase
Production   I of    Productien    X of  durln8
Capacitv    Total   Camacir  Total    Imlementation
Metal WorkersI
Electriciansl
Electronicians   1,074     18X    2,057       21X          922
Building trades  2,833     472    3,527       35S          242
1echanicslAutomotive   328  51      590        61          802
Secretarial       170      3X       579        61          340X
Textile & Clothlng    581  10X      605        62           4X
Transportation    639      llX    2,224       22X          348X
Leather & Shoes   368      62       374        4X           21
Other             47        OX      140       .X           ,298Z
T0TAL           6,040     1002    10,096      100X         671
(a) September 1989.
0802g



17.      The project also had an impact on the social environment, as
expanded and improved boarding facilities in the project institutions have
made it possible for candidates from more remote areas to have access to
training and, in some centers, to provide access to girls for the first
time 308 young women are enrolled in the VTCs created or expanded by the
project today as opposed to about 100 at the start of the project), and to
offer overall better quality of accommodations.
18.      Furthermore, the project resulted in a higher level of qualifica-
tion on the part of instructional staff. In addition to the 370 overseas
fellowships financed through the loan proceeds and bilateral aid, an in-
country training program was organized, mainly to familiarize instructors
with the new equipment. The country now disposes of a corps of technically
well qualified instructors that are self-confident enough to implement the
changes ahead.
19.      The main shortcoming of the project is that it did not meet its
institution building objectives. Thirteen years of expert services were to
be used by the Office to strengthen its role in the planning, coordination,
management and operation of VT and in improving the efficiency of its
training programs.   When the project was revised in 1986, the funds for
expert services were cut down by a third, reducing the expert services to
about 8.5 years (or 104 months).  In the first 6 years of implementation
(1982-1987), only 24 months (or 23%) were utilized, exclusively on archi-
tectural design and inventory of the Office's buildings and equipment (see
para. 13). In 1988, UNDP designed and started executing a technical assis-
tance program to assist the Office implement its new organizational struc-
ture, and strengthen its human resources. The program is cofinanced by the
Bank under the Fourth Education Project and executed by IIO. Although this
program clearly meets the institution building objectives of the project,
it was not designed as an attempt to meet these objectives at the eleventh
hour of the project but rather as an indispensable first step in readying
the Office for the preparation of the Education and Training Sector Loan.
20.      Quantitative Results:        80 workshops were created under the
project and an additional 120 were expanded or reequipped. The table in
para. 16 shows that student capacity went up 67%, from 6040 to 10100. It
assesses the quantitative impact of the project on the basis of before and
after the project.   Any comparison between project targets set for 1986
(anticipated project completion), and project accomplishments in 1989
(actual completion), is not very meaningful: the profile of training has
changed considerably during the years of project implementation - the
configuration of specializations, the duration of courses, and above all
the employment opportunities for graduates have changed with the evolution
of the country's economic situation. The fact that the targets set were
not adhered to must be viewed as a positive outcome of the project,
reflecting a good grasp of the evolving conditions and a flexible approach.



-9-
VII.     Bank Performance
21.      Bank performance parallels the overall project accomplishment:
strength with regard to the physical components, lesser attention on the
system development features of the project. The all-absorbing and indis-
pensable resolution of issues related to construction and equipment (space
standards, workshop cost estimates) during project preparation was done at
the cost of the institution building and training assessment components.
In its paragraph on risks, the Staff Appraisal Report in fact failed to
identify tlhe difficulty the Office would have in carrying out its first
operation with the Bank, as well as its inexperience in recruiting the
necessary outside expertise. The light emphasis on the qualitative objec-
tives of the project was continued during the early years of project imple-
mentation when the Bank had to assist the Government in resolving the
obstacles to a timely start up (production of architectural design, exten-
sive assistance with all stages of procurement). Moreover, over the years
(and partly owing to the lengthy implementation), the project was super-
vised by about ten different Bank staff members.  Nonetheless, the Bank
managed to ensure institutional continuity and approached implementation
with flexibility to newly developing situations (changes in project design
to accommodate the Government's wish to utilize VTCs for apprenticeship
programs, revision of cost estimates and disbursement percentages to
reflect evolving world financial considerations).
VIII.    Borrower Parrmance
22.      For the most part, the Office's main strengths and weaknesses are
the same as those observed for the project and the Bank: overall satisfac-
tory (albeit slow) implementation of the physical components, lesser atten-
tion given to system development features. Moreover, the high turnover in
the Bank's staff responsible for this project was matched by an equally
high turnover in the Office's top management (five managing directors in
the life of the project). The burden of continuity falling on the imple-
mentation unit coupled with the desire to oversee all aspects of project
implementation led to a certain concentration of information and decisions
in the unit. Very little feedback was requested from the project's bene-
ficiaries:   the training centers' staff and trainees.   Little interest,
until 1988 at least, seems to have been taken in tracing the actual employ-
ment outcomes of the Office's VTC graduates, including the ones from
project-financed centers.
IX.      Consulting Services
23.      Consultants were used at all levels of project preparation and
implementation, although in inadequate quantity to fully meet the
objectives of the project related to institutional building and to the
strengthening of the VT delivery system. However, the experts recruited
performed satisfactorily in the fields assigned with the exception of
architecture, where there was considerable variation in the quality of
architectural designs and of supervision of construction of VTCs.



- 10 -
X.       Project Documentation and Rata
24.      The legal documents pertaining to the project followed the usual
format. Their particular strength lay in their flexibility so that they
were easily amended to reflect changes. Data for the preparation of this
Project Completion Report were readily available at the Office and at the
Bank, although on the part of the Bank, changes in format reports over the
years made it difficult to establish coherent time series.
XI.      Proiect-8uatainabilLi
25.      As a result of the project, the country now has in place a wider
network of better equipped VTCs which offer more geographical equity.
Although specialty-specific in their initial design, these facilities are
now being converted into sector-dedicated training centers under the
Education and Training Sector Loan. This conversion makes the centers more
responsive to changing labor market demands and should ensure them full
utilization for the future.   In addition, the corps of well qualified
technical instructors trained under the project should provide higher
quality training to new students for years to come.



- 11 -
PART II - Project Review from Borrower' kegsgective
1.    Objectives
Assistance from IBRD requested by the Tunisian Government since
June 1978 (signature of loan agreement May 18, 1981, effective date of loan
November 18, 1981, loan opening date June 29, 1982) for the purpose of
modernizing, renewing a,nd developing the vocational training system managed by
the Office, to enable it to meet the expressed and latent skilled manpower
needs of the country's economy.
The draft application submitted to IBRD comprises the following
activities, designed to strengthen and develop vocational training, including
apprenticeship:
- renewal of training equipment
- additional training equipment
- procurement of equipment for new centers
- construction and fitting out of training facilities and common
facilities
2.    Original loan amount (IBRD share in USS millions)
- Civil works                 4.6
- Equipment                   12.4
- Technical assistance         1.0
- Fellowships                  0.1
- Unallocated                  7.9
Total           26.0
3.    The amendment dated Agril 21. 1986. negotiated and approved by the two
Rarties (OFPP and IBRD in agreement with the Planning Ministry) amends
the financial structure of the loan as follows:
- Civil works                  7.0
- Equipment                   11.0
- Technical assistance         0.6
- Fellowships                  0.1
- Unallocated                 2.3
Total           21.0
4.    Extension of closing date
To attain the project objectives, IBRD was asked to authorize two
closing date extensions (one year each).
First extension
- Closing date: December 31, 1987 instead of December 31, 1986
- Last disbursement date: June 30, 1988 instead of June 30, 1987



- 12 -
Seoond extension
- Closing date: December 31, 1988 instead of December 31, 1987
- Last disbursement date: June 30, 1989 instead of June 30, 1988
5.    Delays in oroject execution
The two extensions were requested to make up for the cumulative delay
in project execution, essentially due to the following causes:
5.1 The Fourth Education Project was the first project executed by
OFPE, which had never before been required to execute projects of such
magnitude (lack of experience in project monitoring, engineering, etc.).
5.2 Complex and long-drawn out procurement procedure (8-12 months
between the bid call and the meeting of the departmental commission on
procurement and signature of the contracts).
5.3 Slow equipment deliveries and acceptance.
5.4 Frequent changes in key IBRD personnel (four Division Chiefs
during project execution).
5.5 IBRD's extensive restructuring during 1988.
6.    Status of comonents
6.1 Civil works
Construction has been completed on all centers; all that remains
to be done is the finishing work on the following centers:
- GAPSA: (90% executed), probable acceptance March 31, 1989.
- ENFIDHA: (952 executed), probable scceptance March 31, 1989.
- BEN AROUS II: electricity (651 executed), probable acceptance
March 31, 1989.
(See detailed breakdown, Annex I)
6.2  Equipment
All the equipment contracts have been signed. Deliveries should
be completed end March-early April 1989.
(See detailed breakdown, Annex I)
6.3 Technical assistance
It is true that this component is not emphasized, when compared
to other categories, but this is essentially due to the fact that the
technical assistance requirements have been met:



- 13 -
- through bilateral cooperation (OFPE - AFPA) for management
standards;
- by an OFPE expert in infrastructure and equipment evaluation (TOR
approved by IBRD in January 1988).
- by a consulting firm hired to audit the project.
The follo-ing numbers of OFPE technicians have done internships
abroad each year:
1984    1985    1986    1987    TOTAL
78      126     105     62       371
7.    Evaluation of civil works component. conclusions
The initial planning of the civil works component was very rigorous.
But, it did not take into account the Borrower's legal or economic realities,
namely:
7.1 The frequent lack of certain construction materials on the
domestic market.
7.2 Inclement weather conditions (wind and rain in winter, excessive
heat in summer), which can hold up construction for some time.
7.3 Default on the part of certain contractors, causing the borrower
to terminate several contracts.
The proper course of action would have been either to provide OFPE
with a project execution and monitoring capacity, or to treat all construction
contracts as turnkey contracts, so as to have only one contractor to deal
with. The huge number of multi-party contracts has led to the accumulation of
enormous delays in execution. This is mainly due to the fact that
coordination is becoming more and more difficult, if not impossible. The
delays accumulated by one contracting party are automatically passed on to the
next party, resulting in missed deadlines.
7.4 The choice of construction sites has, for certain projects,
resulted in the need for supplementary works that were not foreseeable at the
time of the study. Examples are Sousse Electronique (construction of a
protective embankment); JEBENIANA (elevation above ground zero); SOLIMAN (90
cm of fill for flood control); GAFSA (ground zero); ENFIDHA.
In future, it would be wise to ensure that the architectural design
is compatible with the characteristics of the site (soil analysis, rainfall
study, feasibility study).
In conclusion, the option selected by the borrower, namely the
purchase of sites at nominal prices, has been offset by the additional
expenditures arising out of the poor choices made (e.g. SOLINAN connection
water supply by SONEDE: TD31,000; GAMKARTH: connection STEG: TD21,585 DT).



- 14 -
8.       Evaluation of equipment component. conclusions
8.1 EguiRment registers [cadastresi
The equipment registers serving for the preparation of technical
dossiers for the bid proceedings contain various gaps with respect to the
technical specifications on certain items.
These gaps have now been remedied in agreement with the suppliers.
This operation took anywhere between 15 days and 2 months, quite apart from
the large volume of correspondence between borrower and supplier. It is
recommended that in future the item to be purchased be described with the
maximum of technical details.
8.2 Bid aDRraisal
The tardiness in the bid appraisal procedure was mainly due to the
fact that the technician handling the appraisal was not the one who prepared
the technical dossier.
8.3 Methodologv for lot classification
Following is the borrower's methodology:
Homogeneous, inseparable lots, by sector.
The following homogeneous lots are used as a basis for the award of
equipment contracts for the mechanical sector:
I.Machinery
2. Tools
3. Fitting out
While this methodology has the advantage of involving only one
supplier, it complicates the acceptance procedure. For a single contract,
4-10 acceptance points are scattered throughout the Republic, without taking
into account the multitude of contracts, suppliers and lots, hence the need
for a huge number of trips throughout the country to accept often negligible
quantities of equipment. In future, it is recommended that calls for bids on
equipment contracts be issued by individual training unit, since this will
involve a single acceptance point, providing the training unit with all of its
equipment and ensuring that its activities can all get under way
simultaneously.
9.       Ouantitative aspect of the proiect (see Annex II)



- 15 -
10.      Financial aspect of the project
Evaluation of financial procedure, conclusions.
For the disbursement of Loan No. 1961 TUN for the Fourth Education
Project, IBRD has drawn up a procedure to be adopted by the borrower (Republic
of Tunisia - OFPE) for the withdrawal of loan proceeds.
10.1 Present procedure
For every operation generating a withdraws.l of loan proceeds, the
borrower should adopt the following procedure:
(a) 9xtrations prior to withdrawal of loan Rroceeds
Prior to any withdrawal application, the borrower should first,
following the chronological order of operations, ~.end duplicate copies to IBRD
of:
t the architectural drawings (for civil works) and the technical
dossiers (for equipment), for approval:
- the bid appraisal reports;
- comparative tables and selected reports, to obtain "non objection"
c contracts duly signed as commitments against the loan.
(b) Withdrawals of loan proceeds
All withdrawals are effected through an official application signed
by the borrower's authorized representative (OFPE's President and Managing
Director).
This application, to be submitted to IBRD in duplicate, should
comprise:
- an application for the withdrawal of funds;
- a fund withdrawal table;
- copies of invoices or accounts;
- acceptance slips and reports;
- any other necessary document in support of the withdrawal of funds
(bank guarantees, summary statements, etc.).
The withdrawal applications used by the borrower within the framework
of this Fourth Project are numbered successively, starting from 1, and are of
two types: direct payment applications and reimbursement applications.
Different forms are used for each type.



- L6 -
Direct Rayment apglicatiions
This type of application is used by the borrower for payments to
foreign suppliers for equipment and technical assistance, or for fellowships
abroad.
The forms used in this case are those for procedure III.
bpglications for reimbursement
This type of application is used for reimbursement of the share of
IBRD loan funds that the borrower has advanced to local suppliers on IBRD's
behalf.
The forms used in this case are those for procedure I.
It should be noted that IBRD replaced the above-mentioned forms in
October 1988. The new ones may be used for both types of withdrawal
application, which simplifies correspondence.
10.2 ProRosals and conclusions
Use of the Bank's procedure for the withdrawal of loan proceeds and
the internal procedure for monitoring and management of the IBRD project has
led to two types of difficulty, which have prevented satisfactory project
execution.
(a) Difficulties inherent in the Bank's procedures
The principal difficulty encountered in application of those
procedures concerns the grace period granted by IBRD before the last
disbursement (six months after the loan closing date).
This period is unrealistic, in light of possible delays in delivery
by suppliers, the fact that some items do not match the order and have to be
replaced, the time needed for preparation, forwarding and authorization of
invoices and acceptance slips, etc.
The second difficulty lies in the conversion of funds committed
against a loan in dollars.
While IBRD notifies the borrower of the status of disbursements with
their dollar equivalents, the same is not ture of commitments, which has led
the borrower to use an arbitrary rate in making such conversions.



- 17 -
With respect to the above gaps, we propose that IBRD:
- extend the grace period (last disbursement date) from six months
to one year;
- send the borrower a quarterly statement of commitments against the
loan, expressed in dollars, to enable the borrower to handle Its
commitments in relation to the appropriations (since the latter
are expressed in dollars).
(b) Difficulties inherent in the borrower's internal projLect
management procedures
The internal procedures have given rise to certain difficulties
during project execution, namely:
- The existence of two units handling payments on the IBRD project
(Financial Directorate, budget unit title II, for dinar payments, and the
project unit's bookkeeper for foreign exchange payments).
This has led to the existence of two project information centers,
slow reimbursements procedures, and difficulties in project component
evaluation.
It is therefore recommended that in future the payments on any IBRD
project all be handled by the project unit's bookkeeper, that a special bank
account be opened for the local currency counterpart to the IBRD loan, and
that IBRD-financed projeccs be shown separately in the equipment budgets for
OFPE.
- At the Equipment Directorate (project execution unit), the
authorization of IBRD project invoices is handled by a unit also dealing with
the authorization of invoices relating to other projects.
11.      Action glan to finalise payments on IBRD loan TUN - 1961
A steering committee met on January 4, 1989 (minutes of the same
date), chaired by Mr. Taoufik Baccar, to adopt a new strategy for accepting
equipment geared to the last disbur3ement date (June 1989).
It was decided to adopt three methods of acceptance depending or the
nature of the equipment.
(a) Tool contracts
General acceptance to take place at :he Ariana central depot.
The acceptance team will comprise:
- a DST official (responsible for acceptance and administrative
documents)
- a representative of the supplier
- principals, or their representatives, of the centers concerned.



- 18 -
(b) Sm*al eauirnient eontg ras
Since start-up can take place at centers similar to Tunis (CFP Radfs,
CPMAT Ariana, CFP Ben Arous, Ariana central depot), the equipment will be
accepted at one of those locations, by a team composed of:
- a DET official (responsible for acceptance and administrative
documents)
- a representative of the supplier
- the principals, or their representatives, of the centers concerned
- an instructor who participated in the technical bid appraisal.
(c) Contracts for tools and machinery (requiring assembly and
start-up)
Two scenarios are contemplated:
(1) If the tools are to be delivered separately from the mac.hinery:
acceptance will take place as in (a) above, while the machinery will be
accepted on the site.
(2) If tools and machinery are covered by the same delivery,
acceptance will be on the site.
The on-site acceptance team will comprise:
- a DET official (responsible for acceptance and administrative
documents)
- a representative of the supplier
- bhe principal of the center
- the instructor who will use the tools and machinery.
N.B.  An instructor who participated in the technical bid appraisal will be
invited, as necessary, to be a member of the various acceptance teams.



BREAKDOWN OF COMPONENTS OF IBRO-FINANCED PROJECTS
SL.  PhIUE          Centers             Construction                    Eauiment                     Nature of Operation
X Executed      Completion     X Delivered   Completion
Date                         oate
l             C.P.M.A.T. ARIANA             100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
2             C.F.P.I.C. ARIANA             100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
3             INST. TEXTILE OEN-DEN         100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
4    I        C.F.P.B. BEN AROUS            100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
s             C.F.P. RADES                  100%           -                90%        Apr-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
6             GABES II                      100%           -                90%        Apr-89        NEW CENTER
7             ELECTRONIQUE SOUSSE           100%           -               100%           -          NEW CENTER
8             C.P.B.I.M. MDNASTIR            -             -               100%           -          COMPT. EQUIP. & C.E.
9             MEDENINE                       -             -                95%        Apr-89        COMPT. EQUIP. & C.E.
10            EL JEM                         -             -               100%           -          COMPT. EQUIP. & C.E.
11            EL GRINE                       -             -               100%           -          COMPT. EQUIP. & C.E.
12            C.F.P EMFIDHA                  96%        Apr-89              -                        EXT. G.C.
13            C.F.P. BEJA                   100%           -               70%         May-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
14            MANDIA                        100%           -               70%         May-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
15            MISAKEN                       100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
16  II        SIDI-BOUZID                   100%           -                70%        May-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
17            SILIANA                       100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
18            C.M.F. SOUSSE                 100%           -               100%           -          EXT. G.C. & C.E.
19            C.F.P. GAFSA                   95%        Apr-89             40%         May-89        NEW CENTER
20            C.F.P. SOLIMAN                100%           -               95%         May-89        NEW CENTER
21            C.M.F. LA MARSA               100%           -               100%                      NEW CENTER
22   III      BEN AROUS (SIR KASSAA)        100%           -                70%        May-89        NEW CENTER
23            DJEBENIANA                    100%           -                SO%        May-89        NEW CENTER
24            TABRKA                        100%           -                SO%        May-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
25            KORBA                         100%           -                70%        May-89        EXT. G.C. & C.E.
26            MOKNINE                        -             -                SO%        May-49        C.E.
27  ADDENDUM  THIBAR                         -             -                -          May-89        C.E.
28            C.M. ADRTY                     -             -               100%        May-89        A.N.
29            MATERIEL BURAUTIQUE            -             -               100%           -          A.N.
C.E. = ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT
EXT. G.C. = CIVIL WORKS EXTENSION
A.N. = NEW PURCHASE



- 20 -                         Annex 2
QUANTITATIVE ASPECT OF PROJECT
IBRD NO. 1961-TUN
NO.  VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER           SECTION #             INSTALLED CAPACITY
1    C.P.M.A.T. ARIANA                         9                         130
2    C.F.P.I.C. ARIANA                         6                          87
3    C.F.P.H. DEN DEN                         15                         225
4    C.F.P.B. BEN AROUS r                     17                         225
5    C.F.P. RADES                             16                         234
6    C.P.B.I.M. MONASTIR                       6                          84
7    C.F.P. MEDENINE                           6                          90
8    C.F.P. EL JEM                             6                          82
9    C.F.P. EL GRINE                           8                         128
10   C.F.P.B. GABES II                         6                          96
11   C.N.F  TECH. EN ELECTRONIQUE              6                          96
SOUSSE
12   C.F.P. ENFIDHA                            4                          60
13   C.F.P. BEJA                               7                         105
14   C.F.P. MAHDIA                             5                          72
15   C.F.P.B. M'SAKEN                          5                          75
16   C.F.P. SIDI BOUZID                        6                          90
17   C.F.P. SILIANA                            8                         120
18   C.F.P. EMPLOIDE DE BUREAU SOUSSE          6                         120
19   C.F.P. GAFSA                             11                         162
20   C.F.P.B. SOLIMAN                          7                         105
21   C.F.P. EMPLOI DE BUREAU GAMMARTH         12                         240
2!   BEN AROUS II (EX. MEGRINE)                3                          45
BIR EL KASSM
23   C.F.P. SFAX II JEBINIANA                 14                         214
24   C.F.P. THIBAR                             3                          45
25   C.F.P. TABARKA                            3                          45
26   C.F.P. MOKNINE                            1                          15
27   C.F.P. KORBA                              3                          45
TOTAL                                  199                       3,035
EXISTING SITUATION                     120                       1,800
PLUS NEW SITUATION                      79                       1,235



- 21 -
PART III
Statistical [omaEt ion
1.      Related Bank Loans
None of the thre. Bank operations (2 credits and one loan) pre-
ceding the Fourth Education Project focussed on vocational training.
Rather, they supported Government's programs to improve primary and sec-
ondary schooling and teacher training, and to introduce practical work in
primary and lower secondary levels.
The Education and Training Sector Loan, approved by the Board in
May 1989, would support the Government's development of system-wide policy
changes in the education and training system. With regard to vocational
training, the main objectives are: (i) improving efficiency of administra-
tion of vocational training; (it) improving linkages with productive
sectors; (ii) promoting apprenticeship training and dual training; (iv)
improving quality and efficiency of training programs; and (v) mobilizing
resources for training.
2.      Project Timetable
Date                                   Date
Planned                               Actual
- Identification                                           May 1978
- Project Brief                                           Dec. 1978
- Preparation                                   Jan 1979 - May 1980
- Appraisal mission                                       June 1980
- Loan Negotiations                                       Nov. 1980
- Board Approval                                      26 March 1981
- Loan Signature        Feb. 1981                       18 May 1981
- Loan Effectiveness    July 1981                      18 Nov. 1981
- Loan Closing          31 Dec. 1986                   31 Dec. 1988
- Loan Disb. Completion 30 June 1987                   30 Sept 1989 a)
The loan closing date was postponed by two years and an additional
three months were added to the standard 6-month disbursement grace period,
resulting in an overall project duration extension of 40% for reasons
explained in part I, paragraph 11.
(a) The Government has requested a 3-month extension to the disbur.se-
ment grace period (from 6/30/89 to 9/30/89) to allow for the fall
disbursement of all committed funds.



- 22 -
3.       Cumulative Estimated and Actual DisburseMs
(US$ Million)
expected at
as of    Disbursement
Year           1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  5/15/89  Completion k/
Appraisal
Estimate      .1    3.5  11.1  19.3  26.0  -       -       -
Actual         .1   1.9   3.2   4.4   7.3   11.0            15.0       18.0
Actual as %
of Estimate  100%  54%   29%   23%   -.-    .      .       .
Actual as
% of revised
loan amount a                         35%   52%   63%      71%        86%
at Loan amount reduced to $21 million in April 1986
b/ Scheduled for September 30, 1989.



-23 -
4.       Prolect Implementation
List of Critical Activities
Appraisal
Indicators                        Estimate              Actual
CIVIL VORKS
Completion of site
acquisition                     (N) November 1980     February 1983
Completion of
architectural
preliminary drawings            (E) December 1980     December 1981
(N) December 1980     December 1981
Completion of bid documents:
1st phase                         (E) December 1980      September 1983
(N) December 1980     February 1981
2nd phase                         (E) February 1982     October 1984
(N) February 1982     June 1983
3rd phase                         (N) October 1982      October 1984
Construction start-up:
1st phase                         (E) January 1982       February 1982
(N) January 1982      February 1982
2nd phase                         (E) September 1982    February 1983
(N) September 1982    May 1983
3rd phase                         (N) July 1983         April 1985
Completion of construction:
1st phase                         (E) December 1982     November 1988
(N) February 1984     March 1989
2nd phase                         (E) October 1983      March 1989
(N) November 1984     February 1989
3rd phase                         (N) August 1985       March 1989



- 24 -
FriTURE An    UIP
Completion of
preliminary lists:                 (A) December 1980    December 1981
(E) December 1980    February 1983
(N) December 1980    February 1983
Completion of bid documents:
1st phase                      (A) June 1981         March 1982
(E) June 1981        March 1982
(N) September 1982   March 1982
2nd phase                      (E) January 1982      October 1985
(N) February 1982    October 1985
3rd phase                      (N) August 1983       October 1985
Completion of delivery:
1st phase                      (A) January 1983      October 1984
(E) March 1983       October 1984
(N) July 1984        June 1989 (*)
2nd phase                      (E) January 1984      June 1989 (*)
(N) February 1985    June 1989 (*)
3rd phase                      (N) January 1986      Jure 1989 (*)
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE
Submission of program
for Bank review                       December 1980    May 1981
Program start-up                      February 1981    February 1981
Program completion                    February 1985    June 1989 (*)
Legn:
(N) - New Institutions (7 VTCs)
(E) - Extensions (13 VTCs)
(A) - Additional Equipment (4 VTCs)
(*) - Expected date
The apprentice centers component as well as the CFP extension
included in 3rd phase and mentioned in the appraisal report have been
cancelled. Construction of third phase started up with a delay of almost
one year. The main reasons for delays are presented in part I, 5 (i). The
unforeseen additional works (e.g., electrical transformers) greatly delayed
the completion of construction works. Delivery of equipment has been very
slow throughout the project.



- 25 -
5.          Prolect Costs and Financina
A. Prlece Costs
(US mI.l)
Anuratsal Estimate                 Rfevled fa)                 Actual tb
Foreign                     Forein                      Forein
Local  Exchange  Total      Lcal Exohaage  Tota1        Local Exchange  Total
Costs  Costs     Costs      COss  Costu      costs      Costs  Costs      Costs
Construction      12.5   4.6       17.1       6.3    3.1        9.3        6.0    5.5       11.5
Equip. & Purn.   1.7   12.4        14.1       0.9    8.3        9.1        3.0   10.0       13.0
Professional svs  1.4    0.0       1.4        0.7    0.0        0.7        0.7    0.0       0.7
Experts' eve      0.2    1.0       1.2        0.1    0.7        0.8        0.2    0.5       0.7
Fellowships       0.0    0.1       0.1        0.0    0.1        0.1        0.0    0.1       0.1
Unallocated       5.2    7        1LL       2L4     7I 9      ,0.                          --
Total I=RD        21.0  26.0       47.0       10.0  20.0        30.0       9.9   16.1       26.0
(a)  revised as of 1986 when amendments to Loan Agreement were made.
(b) projected at project completion, September 1989.
Notes,
Favorable evolution of the US dollar as opposed to currencies used for the project resulted
In the ctual total cost of the project and the foreign exchange part calculated Ln US
dollars to be slightly more than half of the amount estimated at appraisal. (See para. 12
and Annex II for evolution of exchange rate).
S. Prolect FLnsn=i
Loan Atreement              AReised ta)                  Actual (b)
X of   X of               Z of    X o               Xof        X of
Category:    us AM       2             usL aSL1   1B   RD T           IJS a8         n .
1. ilR
Construction    4.6   181                 7.0    35X                 5.5   31X
Equip. & Furn. 12.4   48X                11.0    52X                12.0   672
Experts' svs    1.0    42                 0.6     3X                 0.5    32
Fellowships     0.1   O                  0.1     OX                 0.0    OX
Unallocated     X 9                       LA    ulZ                 -  -    aI
Total IBRD     26.0  1001    552         21.0   100X     702        18.0  1002      692
2. Government  21.0          45S21 9. 0                  3X8                       _1S
TOTAL (1+2)    47.0          100S        30.0            1002       26.0  1002
N1t91
a)    US$ 5 million cancelled In April 1986.
b)    lt is anticipated that $18 out of the $21 million loan will be utilLaed.
As of May 15, 1989, $15 million have been dlsbursed.



- 26 -
6.       Project Results
Direct Benefits
Appraisal               Estimated at Full
Indicator&        Estimate                    Development
(i)    Increase of       additional annual        4,060 annual output;
skilled           output from project      see table in
manpower          institutions about       para. 16 for
5,400;                  details;
(ii)   Qualitative       qualitative             centers visited
improvement       improvement in          had adequately
of CFP's          vocational training      equipped workshops
through re-equipping
poorly equipped
workshops in four
vocational centers;
(iii)  Increase the      an increase in the       the government
apprentice        output capacity of      policy toward
center            the apprentice           apprentice centers
output            system by over 900      has been rethought
capacity          skilled workers per      and the re-
year and qualitative    equipping of
improvement of          apprentice workshops
existing apprentice     (as against VTCs)
training through re-    has been
equipping of            subsequently
workshops;              cancelled;
(iv)   Improvement       improved capacity       partially achieved.
of the Office's   for planning and        The new Office's
planning and      coordinating             structure (merging
coordinating      training efforts;       vocational training
capacity                                   and labor responsi-
bilities) should
facilitate its
planning and
coordinating
functions.



- 27
7.       Status of Covenants
Descrintion of C                onantveant                Status
Hire a coordinator, a              3.02 (a)    A coordinator was
procurement specialist,                        appointed on a part time
and a civil works                              basis but never
specialist.                                    functioned as such.  The
procurement and civil
works specialists were
never recruited.
Instructors receive               4.03 (c)    InstruLtors receive
training, working                              adequate training and
conditions and benefits                       benefits.
comparable to industry.
Establish system to               4.04         Local industries sit on
assess if trainees are                         exam panel, hire some of
adequately trained and                         the trainees.  Formal
find employment related                       monitoring system is
to their training and                          lacking. Tracer studies
furnish to the Bank for a                     were not carried out.
period of five years, starting                 Advisory Councils
with the first group of                        provide some informal
graduates, the results of                      feedback on graduates'
tracer studies.                                employment.
Establish advisory                4.05         Councils have been
councils no later than                         established for all
six months after                               centers having
opening of VTC.                                completed one school
year. More are being
organized.



- 28 -
8.         Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff -InMue
(Staffweeks)
Stage of
nr9I  Mg E8L  EMl   W I5    ml Eu8E              UY  fl9   SOt&
To AMozlsol
D.awtme                43.9 15.3 18.3                                                77.5
Appmlsal thbrough
Boa.d Apprva                13.7 51.5                                                65.2
bard A4ppvl
through Effective"*&              5.1                                                5.1
suparwivLos                  -                                    14.8 -7 A    IL    83.7
VS&/llL                43.9 29.0 74.9 8.2  9.1  16.3 14.S 12.3 13.7 7.7  1.6         231.5
0802.



- 29 -
B Lm aas1a
Stage of                     No. of      Days     Specialization Types of
Proj. Cycle      dnntbAOEW   Persozns    In Field   Reprosented    Problems
Identification      5/78        1         10            EC
to Appraisal        6/78        1         14            TE
11/78        3         14         EC,T8,AC
5/79        3         14         EC,TE,AC
9/79        1         10            TE
2/80        3         17         EC,G8ETE
Appraisal           6/80        3         18         EC,T8,AC
through Board       9/80        4         17       GE,TE,AE,AC
Presentation
Board Approval      2/81        2          8          GE,AC
through Effect.     6/81        2         19          TE,GE
Supervision        11/81        3          8         CH,GE,AC       X.T.
4/82        4          8       CH,GE,TE,AC      M.T.
9/82        3         12.        GE,AC,EC       M.T.
10/82        1          5            CH         M.T.
2/83        2          7          CH,AC         K.T.
5/83        3          1        TE,AC,EC        M.T.
12/83        2         17          GE,AC         M.T.
6/84        2          7          GE,AC         M.T.
10/85       3          11        (H,TE,AC       M.T.
6/86        1          7            AC            M
10/86        1          7            AC            H
2/87        2          8         AC,GE,           M
10/87        2         11          AC,EC           N
6/88        1          6            EC            M
12/88        1         4             EC            M
eggn:
CH - Chief or Deputy Chief of Division;
EC - Economist/Operations Officer
AC - Architect;
AE - Agricultural Educator;
TE - Technical Educator;
GE - General Educator;
T - technical problems
M - management problems
NMt: Time in field in some cases includes work on other projects.



CO4PARATIVE SOSEDU  OF PMIENATIO
i                          t   198t      t   1982      1   1983      t   1984       1   1985       t   1986       1   its?       I   1988       1   1989        1
I C L WORKS                              t                           I   
I         PUASE I          I             t             I             I              I              t              I              I              I              I
I  Appraisal estimate   I                                                                                                                       t              1
I         Actual           I             I             I             I              t              t              I              t              t
I      Q1(  Arion,         I             t             I           .I                              I              t              I              I .
I   CFPIC Artna   I                      t             I                          . . .I I                                                      I              I
I  INST DM De   I                        I             I             I                              ...                          I
I      cpn DM Arous    I                 I             I...... I                    I              I              S              I                
I      0113.6              I             I      t      I             I                                            I                             Itttt
t      CFP Rad *           I                                         I            ...................             I             ............... I
I   CNP Cab a I   I                      t. .. . ... I  t                                                                                                      I
I      URFA  Sousse        t             t.......                           ............t.                        t              I              t              I
I          PIUSB!!         I             t             I             I              I              t              I                             f t            t
I  Appraisal estImte   I                 t                                          I              t              I              t              I              t
I         Actual           I             I             I                            I t            t              I              t              t              t
I      CO  Enfdsh          I             t             I             I.....................................               ........................
I   CP 3I. I                             t             I                                           I            . .              I              I 
I      CO    Maba i        I             t            t              I      .............................         I       ....................  tI
I      OP WBaa                                  I    CFP   . n       It     .         t.t.t..          .          I  .       ..................... I           I
I      CFP Sidl BoutLd   I               I             I                                           ...................          ................. 
I      C8P t11aa           I             t                           f              t  t.                         .            ...... t
OW Souss                  I                             ......................................................                                                  
tCFP "gas                                                                    tttt......................... ..............................................................t 
I or1 80.1..  I   t   I                                                                                           I..  I.t
t          P8lISl  Ill     I             I             t             t              t              t              t              t
I  Appraisal  stisatt    I               I             t                                           t              I              I 
I         Actual           I             I                    t      I                             t              t              t              I
I   CFP B .nA""  II                                    I             I                                                           I. .                          I
I   CFP Djeban    I                     I             t             I              I. .I                                        I .            I              t
I      ADDITIONAL PAS  I                 I             t             I              I              I              I              I              1              t
t   CP tabarka    I                      t             t             I              t              I.                           ..              t 
t   CIP Iorba             t              I             I             t              tt.                                         .. I
t                         t              t             I             t              t              t              t              t              I              t
IFI nuc, a                               tM I                                                     
I         PEAm               I I  I                                  I              t      I                      I              t              t 
t  Appraisal astimate   I                                                                          1              I              I              I t
t    Actual          I             t      ..I                                                 I              I              t              t              I       f
PHASE                                       I             I              I 
I  Appras al stimte t I                                                                            I                                            t              t I     H
I         Actual           I                                                                        ..I  I  I  1  t.. .               .       ...........       
I         PEASEII          I             I             I             t              I              t              t              I              It
I  Appraisal estimate    I               t                                                         I              I              t              I              t
I   Actual   I    I                                                                                 .. I  .....
I  ADDITIONAL PASE         I             I             I             I              I              I              I              I              I              I
I   ActuaL   I                           I                                                          .                  . I                                     1.....
t                          I             I             I             I              I                             I t                           1               2 



- 32 -
-ANNEX I
- -    _ -  _ - -                          (Page 2/2)
3 N 
2.4~~~



- 33 -
ANNEX II
zvolution of the Ixbhange Raees
At appraisal       02-81   US$ 1 - Dinar .4000    TD 1 - US$ 2.5
Period average     1981    US$ 1 - Dinar .4938      TD 1 - US$ 2.025
1982    US$ 1 - Dinar .5907      TD 1 - US$ 1.692
1983    US$ 1 - Dinar .6788      TD 1 - US$ 1.473
n      U         1984    US$ 1 - Dinar .7768      TD 1 - US$ 1.287
U n       1985    US$ 1 - Dinar .8345      TD 1 - US$ 1.198
1986    US$ 1 - Dinar .7940      TD 1 - US$ 1.259
1987    US$ 1 - Dinar .8287     TD 1 - US$ 1.207
1st semester
1988 average        USS 1 - Dlnar .8516      TD 1 - US$ 1.174
Estimated project's
life average :     81/88   US$ 1 - Dlnar .8333      TD 1 - US$ 1.200
Source: "International Financial Statlsticsn,
IMF and World Bank



