Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. P-2981-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
March 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offidal dutes. Its cotents may no othewse be disclosed witbout Wodd flnk antherizltion.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Tunisian Dinar (DT)  =  US$2.50
I US Dollar             =  DT 0.4
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYM USED
OTTEEFP or the Office          Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens
a l'Etranger, de 1'Emploi et de la
Formation Professionnelle (Office of
Tunisian Workers Abroad, Employment
and Training)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TUNISIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary:           Office of Training and Employment (OTTEEFP), an agency
of the Ministry of Social Affairs
Amount:                US$26 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
9.6 percent.
Project
Description:           The project would support the Borrower's program for
increasing the supply of skilled manpower through the
expansion of training and upgrading opportunities for
school leavers and adults in response to employment
needs; institutional improvement in planning, managing
and coordinating skill training is also supported by
the project. It would consist of:
(a)   construction, furnishing and equipping of seven
vocational centers and one apprentice center and
extensions to fifteen existing centers. The
proposed institutions and extensions will create
3,600 new places for training skilled manpower
with annual outputs of 5,400;
(b)   re-equipping of five existing centers with a
view to improving the quality of training; and
(c)   technical assistance to assist in the establish-
ment of a long-term strategy for the development
of vocational and apprentice training.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would make a significant contribution to
meeting urgent manpower needs for skilled workers,
craftsmen and supervisors. It would improve the
administrative and technical capacity of the respon-
sible authority to implement the project efficiently.
The project faces no special risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Project Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ Millions)----
7 Vocational Centers                               8.9       7.8      16.7
1 Apprentice Center                                1.7       1.7       3.4
Extensions to 15 Centers                           4.8       6.5      11.3
Equipment for 5 Centers                            0.2       1.0       1.2
Technical Assistance                               0.2       1.1       1.3
Subtotal (base cost)                              15.8      18.1      33.9
Contingencies:
Physical                                        1.5       1.8       3.3
Price                                           3.7       6.1       9.8
Subtotal (contingencies)                           5.2       7.9      13.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST*                               21.0      26.0     47.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                            -      26.0       26.0
Government                    21.0        -       21.0
Total                         21.0      26.0      47.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
-----------(US$ Million)------------
Annual                     0.3      6.5      8.8      7.3      3.1
Cumulative                 0.3      6.8    15.6    22.9    26.0
Rate of Return:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 "Fourth Education Project- Republic of Tunisia"
(No. 3090-TUN, dated February 25, 1981).
*   Project costs do not include taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$26 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to
help finance the foreign exchange cost of a Fourth Education Project. The
loan would have terms of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
the country is arid or semi-arid, and the limited areas where dry-land
agriculture is possible are subject to seveTe year-to-year fluctuations in
rainfall. The adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by
expanding irrigation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are
phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; however, the known exploitable
reserves of oil and gas are small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively
low quality. There is considerable tourism potential, and efforts have
been made to develop it rapidly over the last decade.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive
effort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980, and the health and nutrition
status of the population has improved. Average calorie supply per capita
increased from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements; life expectancy at
birth increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
5.       Tunisia's economy is mainly dependent on rural activities to
provide employment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide
foreign exchange earnings; manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in
1/ This part updates Part I of the President's Report No. P2846-TUN of
June 6, 1980 for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.



- 2 -
both respects. The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified
economic structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most
pressing social problem) Tunisia remains a largely agricultural economy, with
the rural sector providing work for nearly two out of every five Tunisians
actively employed. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction,
phosphate mining and tourism are small, but these sectors make a vital con-
tribution to GDP, public revenues, savings, and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange earn-
ings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another 43
percent, while agricultural exports are rapidly declining in importance.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent )
GDP /1     Employment       Exports /2
Agriculture                                   16.2           36.5          6.8
Energy/Mining                                 12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                 12.1           21.0         22.5
Tourism                                        4.8            1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                     41.2           24.8         13.4
Government Administration                     13.6           14.4           -
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP in
constant prices increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from 1976
to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth rate for
the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the entire decade
places it among the top 10 middle-income countries; it also marks a substan-
tial improvement over the relatively low growth (4 percent per annum) expe-
rienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached $1,130 in 1979, which, in
constant prices, is about 73 percent above the 1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely attri-
butable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning of this
period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate production,
reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together with favorable
weather conditions resulted in a near doubling of production, a remarkable
turn-around from the slow but continuous decline in agricultural production
during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the degree of Government control
declined and more incentives were given to private initiative. An increas-
ingly export-oriented investment strategy coupled with a dynamic marketing
effort led to a rapid growth of production, particularly in textiles, while
tourism was promoted with marked success.



- 3 -
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite differ-
ent, not so much in terms of overall growth, which slowed down slightly, but
in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agriculture has
virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather condi-
tions; growth in textile production dropped sharply in 1978 because of the
imposition of import quotas by the EEC, and tourism development slowed down
because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist market. By contrast,
petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phosphate processing expanded
making these two sectors the main engine of economic growth over the 1976-79
period. After an exceptional low level in 1976, oil production increased by
over 12 percent per annum up to 1979; more important, however, were the large
profits reaped by Tunisia from the successive increases in crude oil prices,
starting in 1974. These large additional foreign exchange earnings enabled
the country to expand its investments from an average of slightly over 20
percent of GDP before 1975 to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and to expand
public services at a rapid rate. These two factors in turn triggered a rapid
growth in the construction industry and in local manufacturing of construc-
tion materials.
9.       ln spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, partic-
ularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable.
Even in constant prices, and despite the EEC import restrictions on textiles,
exports grew marginally faster than imports. In addition, the terms of trade
improved significantly, due to higher export prices for oil and low import
prices for grains. During 1978-79, as a result, the resource gap remained
relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 72 percent oI
the greatly increased investment effort. The current account deficit of
$500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily financed: grant aid and private
investments accounted for about 30 percent, while the remainder was covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. The increase in lending to Tunisia from
public sources allowed the country to reduce borrowing from financial markets
and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s, therefore, total foreign debt
disbursed increased little relative to GDP and the debt service ratio
improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange reserves increased in seven out ot
the last ten years, but still represented only 1.5 months of imports at the
end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources, an example of which is the
creation of a social security system in 1977. General budgetary revenues
were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the highest
shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these revenues were
saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total government
capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation has led to a
fast increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and to public enter-
prises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the last four years,
accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays, or 4 percent of
GDP. This level Df subsidies to cover the increasing operational deficits of
public enterprises may not be sustainable in the long term; similarly, con-
sumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to concentrate more syste-
matically on the needy.



-4
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national, are
likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from large
capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale industries as
a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden unemployment is
currently considered the most serious problem for the Tunisian economy.
During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy could only absorb
three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this and of the fact that
migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the overall unemployment
and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and 25 percent, has not
declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for overall
economic growth during this period and beyond will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves, it
is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from its
present level of 5-6 million tons per annum-and will come to an end during
the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller fields that
may soon become profitable will not delay the declining production trend by
more than a few years. Some off-shore fields cannot be exploited for the
time being, because they are located in areas disputed by Libya. Gas produc-
tion in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil equivalent--toe--in
1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from the Algerian/Italian
pipeline will provide an additional supply of natural gas, rising from
200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and thereafter. Negotiations with
Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities of natural gas are proceed-
ing but have so far been inconclusive due to differences on quantities and
prices. The Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the
off-shore gas field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal
use of all these resources is being studied with assistance from USAID within
a comprehensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-1980s
will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can be little doubt
that--except in the unlikely case of large new oil discoveries--Tunisia will
have to face the consequences of a decline of oil and gas production over the
next 10-15 years, turning the country into a net importer of hydrocarbons,
perhaps as early as 1987-88. The Government is fully aware of these develop-
ments. It agrees that the situation will require significant policy changes
in the near future and is analyzing the areas where these changes will have



to take place in the context of the preparation of the Sixth Plan. Unlike
many other developing countries, however, Tunisia has enough lead time to
introduce these changes gradually until the mid-eighties. This will reduce
the associated economic and social strains and should avoid major balance of
payments problems. Assuming that the necessary measures will be implemented,
it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP growth ot about 6 percent in
constant prices until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in domestic demand will thus be required to avoid balance
of payments difficulties and to maintain satisfactory economic growth. In
the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget expenditures
will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy policies, in partic-
ular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation. Considering the
complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy system, and the
impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and on the standard of
living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population still living in
absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the system will be a
difficult endeavor, and ought to be initiated without delay. As part of
this effort, the large subsidies to public enterprises, to a large extent
stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased out. In addi-
tion, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used more ettectively
to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports, and to stimulate
savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to keep labor cost
increases in line with productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia
will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to improve its
competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports of manufactured
goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes, how-
ever, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in turn,
will require a corresponding adjustment in the-investment rate below the
present average of 29-30 percent of GDP so as to maintain a manageable spread
between domestic savings and investments. The need to compress investments
will require reassessing the present investment patterns by allocating more
resources to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and medium manu-
facturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem and reduce
income disparities between rural and urban areas as well as within each of
these areas. While social investments in education, health, housing and
water supply will have to continue they should be focussed more on the
neediest income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter), and made
more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.  Since
independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the basic needs
of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent of GDP is
being devoted to social programs, but too many of the benefits accrue to the



- 6 -
upper income groups. Education expenditures rank first among budgetary out-
lays for improving basic needs. The comprehensive education system provides
free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has reached 100
percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary education. The
performance of the system, however, could be improved by: (a) expanding
vocational training programs, improving their relevance and their
coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and rural
groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect has contributed to the improvement in the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors, and nursing personnel, and the
medical referral system is not properly functioning. As a result, the rural
poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant
mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated largely on
curative medicine; to achieve better and faster results, the Government is
planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine and health and
nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing situation.
Subsidized housing, the cornerstone of public intervention, has not reached
the most deserving groups. The housing demand from households above the
poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this end,
adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differentials
between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part because the
system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax system and budget-
ary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government is using
the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion to focus on basic
needs and poverty alleviation, with a view to abolishing absolute poverty
before the end of this century. Maintaining a low demographic growth rate
will be an important factor for a significant alleviation of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the 1976-1979
period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per annum,
two-thirds of which in the form of official assistance-ODA-($450 million or
about $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA commitments came from bilat-
eral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Canada,
but also some oil-surplus countries, whose contributions averaged about
one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17 percent of total ODA was
committed by the Bank Group, and some 12 percent by other multilateral
sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 6.1 percent interest and
18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8 years. At the end of
1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at about $2.4 billion, or
one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of exports of goods and
services, as compared with 20 percent in 1970.



-7-
19.       Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but
have gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased
activities in the petroleum sector and new incentives ottered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in
1979, with most of the increase going into the petroleum sector.
20.       The balance of payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter much will depend on the policy measures initiated
during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for Tunisia to
attempt a continued policy of high investments and high current social out-
lays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange earnings and
domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly exist. The new
Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware of this danger and
recognizes the need for change. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance of payments and external debt management, there is every
reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
reforms and, thus, will continue to remain creditworthy for future Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received forty Bank loans and eleven IDA
credits amounting respectively to $739.6 million and $70.1 million (net of
cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine credits have been fully dis-
bursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of December 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the
efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
22.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies and invest-
ments; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic infra-
structure and for institution building in key public services. An important
feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the timely
and well-coordinated preparation of projects through advice by Bank staft,
the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program and the use of the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility. The Bank is also supporting the Government in
its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic resources and to secure
cofinancing for its projects. The latter is particularly important in view
of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.



- 8 -
23.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and public
transport project has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in
Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure
has accounted for 37 percent. Agriculture and tisheries have received 23
percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly through the Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 15 percent of total commitments.
24.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its etforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development as well as regional integration and for reducing the gap between
income groups, and urban and rural areas of the country. Particular atten-
tion will be paid to employment creation and institution building. In addi-
tion to the proposed vocational training project, the lending program
includes projects in various stages of processing in the agricultural sector,
in industry, power, highways, urban development, health and education. The
Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on strengthening the
macro-economic and sector base for our lending program, and will be more
centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and policies
related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a
petroleum importing country. Two major reports in 1980 on the mechanical and
electrical industries and on the social aspects of development provided a
better knowledge of the country's industrial development base and prospects
in these sub-sectors, and a better understanding of income disparities with
an evaluation of the Government's social policies aimed at poverty allevia-
tion. Future reports will include a review of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986) and
of the agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 19.79 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and its share in debt service during 1979 was 11
percent. The Bank's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is
expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and its share in debt service would
increase to about 16 percent.
26.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET, a development finance company), in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $13.3
million, as of December 31, 1980.



- 9 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
27.      In the past two decades, Tunisia has rapidly expanded its education
system at all levels and, in more recent years, attempted to move increas-
ingly away from the model inherited at independence towards a system more
relevant to the cultural, social and economic needs of a modernizing
society. The formal education system in Tunisia is now quantitatively well-
developed and educational opportunities are quite equitably distributed
between sexes. Estimated gross enrollment ratios 1/ are 100 percent in
primary (6-11 years), 22 percent in secondary (12-18 years) and 6 percent in
higher education. Girls accounted for 44 percent of total primary and 37
percent of total secondary enrollments in 1979. Education policies have been
directed successfully towards the "tunisification" of the teaching service,
and they continue to focus on increasing the relevance of education through
the introduction of practical work at the primary level, and increased
emphasis on science and technology courses at the secondary and higher
levels. Particular attention is being paid to the training needs of school
leavers and the unskilled to increase their productivity and employability.
To complement the policy of making education more practical and employment-
oriented, and to assist in producing citizens attuned to the social and
cultural values of the country, Arabic will continue to be promoted as the
language of instruction, including skill training, and appropriate emphasis
will be placed on Tunisian history, literature and arts in the schools.
28.      The formal education system, under the Ministry of Education,
comprises six years of primary schooling, a secondary level of seven years,
and, under the Ministry of Higher Education, up to five years of higher
education. On successful completion of primary schooling, students proceed-
ing to the secondary level enter either the three-year lower secondary voca-
tional program, or the three-year general program which leads to upper
secondary technical schools or general secondary schools. For those who do
not gain access to secondary schooling, primary grades 7 and 8 provide
pre-vocational training (para. 37). Vocational training is also undertaken
by the Ministry of Social Affairs, through the Office of Tunisian Workers
Abroad, Employment and Training (OTTEEFP, henceforth referred to in this
report as "the Office") and other technical ministries. Teacher training for
the primary level is provided in four-year colleges for those completing the
general program (9 years) and, for the secondary level in four-year general
and technical training colleges attached to the University of Tunis. Higher
education is undertaken in three universities and eight specialized insti-
tutes of the Ministry of Higher Education in which 80 percent of students are
enrolled. Higher technical education is also provided in about 30 other
1/ Gross enrollment ratio is the total students enrolled in a particular
range of grades (including over and under-aged children), divided by the
total number of children in the corresponding age group.



- 10 -
post-secondary institutions controlled by the technical ministries. Private
schooling is available at the primary and secondary levels but accounts for
less than 1 percent ana around 6 percent ot total enrollments respectively.
Problems and Policies
29.       Although the formal education system in Tunisia is well-developed
quantitatively, and "tunisification" of the teaching service has been almost
achieved (95 percent of secondary school teachers were Tunisians in 1979),
two qualitative problems encumber the system, namely low internal efficiency
and lack of relevance of courses to employment needs. Internal inefti-
ciency is reflected in high drop-out and repeater rates, especially at the
primary level where they reach nearly 10 percent and 26 percent respectively
in grade 5. Over 100,000 children leave the education system every year, of
which 80 percent are primary school leavers. Educational policy theretore
aims at retaining a higher proportion of students in the system and ensuring
that those who leave the system are better prepared tor working lite. The
technical/vocational training programs comprise full time pre-employment
vocational training in specific trades leading to certitication/qualification
for entry into industry, and apprenticeship programs providing part-time
release training for untrained and uncertified workers already employed.
Training policy is directed towards expanding opportunities for school
leavers and adult workers to increase their productivity and employability;
the project supports this expansion.
30.       In primary schools, efforts focus on improving the school environ-
ment to encourage children to stay longer in school in order to improve their
chances of meaningful employment in the future. Class sizes and pupil/
teacher ratios are being gradually reduced (1:39 in 1980) and the quality of
teacher training improved.  Greater emphasis is also placed on making eauca-
tion more relevant to the socio-economic environment, through increased
attention to the development of basic skills in number and language, to serve
as an improved foundation for later training for employment. In addition,
practical work is being introduced in the fifth and sixth grades and extended
to newly instituted seventh and eighth grades for those who would otherwise
be forced to leave the system after the sixth grade (para. 37). The rate of
admission from primary to secondary schools is being raised from 26 percent
of grade 6 enrollments in 1976 to an expected 30 percent by 1981. Greater
attention will be given to aptitude and motivation as criteria for graduation
from primary and entry to secondary schools rather than age, as emphasized in
the past.
31.       The need to make secondary and higher education more relevant to the
needs of the economy has been pursued in recent years through reorienting
enrollments away from the general program towards lower secondary vocational
courses accompanied by expanded opportunities for promotion from this level
to higher level technical courses (para. 28). It is expected that 37 percent
of new entrants will enroll in the vocational cycle in 1981, compared with 27
percent in 1974. In the same year, 73 percent of enrollments in the upper
secondary program will be in math/science and technical courses, compared
with 48 percent in 1972. Within the universities, a similar shiut is taking



- 11 -
place witn enrollments in science and technology courses expected to reach 55
percent in 1981, compared with 50 percent in 1976. The government is well
aware that the problem of eoucated unemployed is the inevitable consequence
it courses are not relevant to the needs of the labor market, and that shifts
from general to technical education, and from arts to math/science, are
fundamental to the process of growth and modernization. There is scope for
improving the relation between employment needs and the technical and voca-
tional training programs. This is recognized and is being sought through
introducing longer periods of on-the-job training for students, and greater
exposure ot teachers to work situations. Coordination between training
institutions and employers will be strengthened through greater emphasis on
tne work of the national and regional employment commissions, and more
direcLly through the creation of advisory councils of Government and
employers representatives (para. 48). A directorate of programs has been
established in the Ministry of Education to ensure that better information on
the labor market, obtained as a result of improved coordination, will lead to
more relevant curricula.
32.      Government policies to improve the relevance of these programs to
employment needs are soundly conceived, and will ease the adjustment of
supply to demand for skilled labor. Nevertheless, the most serious problem
facing the Tunisian economy is the persistent high level of unemployment and
underemployment (para. 11). The major priority in the national development
strategy is to generate sufficient employment opportunities to absorb the
increasing annual aaditions to the workforce.  Expanded employment opportuni-
ties are being sought through incentives to encourage labor-intensive produc-
tion, regional development plans to boost small-scale agriculture and indus-
try, and creation of additional jobs in public enterprises. On the supply
side, policies will focus on providing an expanded and improved regional
distribution ot training opportunities for school leavers and for adults
seeking employment and those currently employed who need to upgrade their
skills and productivity.
i3.      In spite of the high unemployment and underemployment rate, signifi-
cant shortages ot skilled manpower exist in Tunisia and, although demand for
tecnnically trained manpower ranges across the whole spectrum of skills, the
demand for skilled workers and independent craftsmen is quantitatively the
most important. lt is estimated that the requirements for vocationally
trained skilled manpower will be around 49,000 per annum through 1990; in
1978 the training system produced 37,000 trained workers.  To close the gap
between supply and demand, and ensure that the regional needs for skilled
manpower are met in the long term, it is intended to rationalize the training
system through a clearer definition of responsibilities and a better linkage
between the various training agencies and programs, to broaden the range of
specializations in the vocational centers, consolidate and expand apprentice
training, aevelop training programs to allow workers to acquire higher levels
ot skill, according to their needs and abilities, and improve the coordina-
tion between the training system and employers, particularly in the indus-
trial sector. The Office (para. 28) has been given the central role in
pursuing these objectives.
34.      Establistied in 1967 within the Ministry of Social Affairs, the
Ottice carries the major responsibility for advising the Government on



- 12 -
employment and training policies and for providing the major economic sectors
with the required skilled manpower. Its activities include vocational and
apprenticeship training as well as upgrading and certification. The Office
currently controls 60 vocational training centers with about 350 sections and
3 apprenticeship centers. These facilities, however, cover a limited number
ot disciplines and are generally poorly equipped. In the field of appren-
ticeship, ambitious expansion plans have given way to a more prudent and
realistic approach. It is now intended to upgrade the three existing appren-
ticeship centers, and establish a new one to form a network of four properly
stafted and equipped centers to test new methods for training and coordina-
tion with industry, before embarking on wider expansion plans. With regard
to vocational training, the Fifth Plan envisages the establishment, under the
Ottice, ot eight new vocational centers and 57 new sections to be added to
the existing centers, as well as a program to renew annually about 10 percent
of the existing equipment stock. Special emphasis is given to the provision
ot training opportunities in skills that are closely related to regional and
sectoral needs. Kegional priorities focus on areas currently less well-
served by training institutions, and on priority sectors such as manufactur-
ing, construction and road transport. It is expected that the Sixth Plan
(1982-1986) will carry on the same priorities. The proposed project would
make a major contribution to achieving these expansion plans, and would also
substantially improve the Office's planning, management and coordination
capacity.
bank Group Assistance for Education
35.      bank group lending in the education sector (two credits and one
loan) has been consistent with the Government's objectives as perceived at
the time. Early lending, in the first two credits, supported manpower
development and the qualitative improvement of education. Later, lending
begun to tocus on making education more relevant to employment needs and
ensuring that further training is available to those leaving the education
system, thereby increasing their productivity and employability. The first
credit ($5 million in 1962) supported the expansion of secondary education to
assist in meeting middle level manpower needs, and to increase the supply of
inputs to post-secondary institutions through the financing of four secondary
schools and the expansion of one other. The credit also financed extensions
to a teachers' college to increase the supply of properly qualified lower
secondary teachers. The project was implemented satisfactorily and completed
in February 1967.
36.      The second credit ($13 million in 1966) continued the emphasis on
the expansion ana qualitative improvement of secondary education through the
financing o. nine new secondary schools, expansion and equipping of six
existing schools, and equipment for 16 secondary schools. Savings resulting
largely from favorable contract prices allowed for the financing of indus-
trial equipment for an additional 11 secondary schools, and of technical
assistance for experts to assist in upgrading the planning capacity of the
Ministry of Education. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2226 of
september 29, 1978) found that the project was generally in line with
Tunisia's needs tor expanding secondary education, but that greater emphasis
on vocational courses in the project schools would have increased their rele-
vance to manpower needs. Physical aspects of the project were implemented
satisfactorily, but the later addition of the technical assistance program in



- 13 -
education planning was less successful because Tunisia and the Bank were not
fully agreed on the terms of reference of the team of specialists, nor were
these specialists of appropriate calibre. This led to lack of cooperation
with the specialists concerned, and resulted in the impact of their efforts
being much reduced.
37.      The lack of clearly defined objectives posed problems for the third
project, a loan for $8.9 million in 1975 (No. 1155-TUN). The project aimed
at supporting the introduction of practical work in grades 5 and 6 (together
with associated teacher training) to improve the relevance of the primary
curriculum to the socio-economic environment. The project also included
technical assistance for planning studies, and an experimental extended pri-
mary training scheme, as a pilot program for the later development of a
general scheme, to serve the growing number of primary school leavers. After
the loan became effective, the Government indicated that, having reconsidered
its priorities, it did not wish to proceed with the project as appraised.
Lengthy discussions ensued in which the Bank tried to retain the focus of the
project on the objectives for which loan money had been allocated. A satis-
factory solution was finally reached in which the major emphasis was placed
on the expansion of practical work in grades 5 and 6, with a two-year exten-
sion to grades 7 and 8, to provide appropriate pre-vocational training for
those who would otherwise be forced out of primary school. The project is
financing workshops in 325 primary schools, and the expansion and/or equip-
ping of seven teachers' colleges to train practical teachers; project imple-
mentation is now proceeding satisfactorily. The emphasis on improving the
capacity for education planning runs through both the second and third proj-
ects and, in spite of early problems, education planning is now well estab-
lished in the Ministry of Education.
38.      Planning studies financed under the previous projects contributed to
the elaboration of the Government's education/vocational training strategy.
A socio-economic study of skill training needs, including a detailed manpower
assessment for major industrial sectors, and the implications for the expan-
sion of the Office's functions and responsibilities contributed to the formu-
lation of the fourth education project; a study related to the development of
a nine-year basic education cycle will provide the necessary data for the
identification of a possible fifth project. The proposed fourth education
project supports the policy of expanding training opportunities for school
leavers and for skill upgrading of the workforce through the expansion and
improvement of apprentice and vocational training under the Office, and
through the strengthening of the Office's planning, management and coordina-
tion capabilities. It is expected to make a major contribution to meeting
urgent manpower needs. In view of the past project difficulties related to
planning and commitment, particular attention is given to ensuring Government
support for the project, and to provide the Office with appropriate technical
expertise. The project fits clearly into the priorities of the Fifth and
those which are contemplated for the Sixth Development Plans, and the Govern-
ment's long-term development objectives.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
39.      The proposed project would assist the Government in meeting
Tunisia's increasing demand for skilled manpower. It was identified during
Bank missions in May and November 1978 and prepared by the Government with
the assistance of the Bank and consultants financed under the Third Education
Project. Preparation assistance missions visited Tunisia in January, May,
September and December 1979. The project was appraised in June 1980 and
negotiations were held in Washington in December 1980. The Tunisian delega-
tion was led by Mr. Taoufiq Cheikh Rouhou, Director, Department of Human
Resources in the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A report entitled "Staft
Appraisal Report, Fourth Education Project-Republic of Tunisia," No. 3090-TUN,
dated February 25, 1981 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this
report. Annex III summarizes key events leading to Board presentation, and
special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement. A map showing the
location of the institutions to be constructed or extended under the project
is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
40.      The proposed project would:  (a) increase the supply of skilled
manpower through the establishment of eight new centers and the addition of
30 new sections to existing centers; (b) improve the quality of vocational
and apprentice training through re-equipping poorly equipped workshops; and
(c) assist in the establishment of an institutional framework and a long-term
strategy for vocational and apprentice training in Tunisia. The proposed
project would provide 2,800 additional vocational training places and 800
apprentice places.
41.      The project consists of:  (a) construction, furniture and equipment
for 7 vocational training centers, I apprentice center, and extensions to
13 existing vocational and 2 apprentice centers; (b) furniture and equipment
for existing workshops in 4 vocational centers and 1 apprentice center;
and (c) technical assistance (expert advice and training fellowships) to
strengthen the Office's capacity in the planning, coordination, management
and operation of vocational and apprentice training, and improve the effi-
ciency and relevance of its training programs.
42.      Vocational Training Centers.  Three of the new vocational centers
would be located in the northern industrial region centered on Tunis, three
others in the major coastal cities of Sfax, Sousse and Gabes, and the seventh
in the inland transportation and mining center of Gafsa. The centers would
offer courses in the building trades, particularly masonry, metal trades,
auto maintenance and repair, electricity and secretarial skills; courses for
building supervisors would also be offered at Gabes. The courses would be of
3-24 months duration with a minimum entry age of 18 years. Entry standards



- 15 -
would vary according to course, with a minimum level of six years of school-
ing for less complex courses such as welding, and eight years for the more
demanding courses in the electrical and mechanical trades. The provision of
courses with entry after six years of schooling would open training oppor-
tunities for poorer, unskilled persons, who hase had to terminate their
education after primary schooling. The new institutions would provide 2,050
additional training places and are e>pected to produce about 2,640 skilled
workers per year including 680 secretarial staff.  Trainees in the centers
would receive the normal financial assistance available to trainees under the
Office, which appears adequate to meet individual needs. Although all
courses in the project institutions are open to females, there is a marked
tendency for women to enroll in traditionally female-oriented courses, such
as secretarial or hairdressing. The National Women's Organization has
consistently encouraged a move away from this trend, and has recently
established a center which trains women in non-traditional occupations.
Boarding facilities for about 1,225 trainees would be provided to serve the
needs of students from poorer homes and to allow trainees to be drawn from
beyond the cities in which the centers are to be established. These
facilities have been designed to allow, with minor modifications, for
appropriate separate quarters for women. All the courses to be taught in the
new institutions are already being offered in existing centers, and these
have an acceptable balance between practical and theoretical studies, and
adequately reflect the needs of industry. The training program would include
recycling and upgrading courses, and some centers will also provide trade
testing and certification for industrial workers.
43.      Apprentice Training Center.  This center would be established in
the expanding southern industrial suburbs of Tunis. Courses would be of
two years duration, with each apprentice spending one day per week in the
center. Courses would be offered in the building, metal work, electrical and
mechanical trades as well as in hairdressing. Age of entry would be around
14-15 years for those who have completed primary schooling, and courses would
provide an ideal opportunity for further training for the outputs of the
grade 8 extension to primary school, which is being expanded to provide two
years prevocational training for those not proceeding to secondary schools.
The center will create 710 training places with an output estimated at about
1,650 per annum. About 100 boarding places would be provided to allow
apprentices from outlying areas to stay overnight and also to provide facili-
ties for special short courses and seminars; in addition kitchen and dining
facilities would also be financed to provide a mid-day meal for apprentices.
All facilities will be equally accessible to female apprentices. Curricula
would be well-balanced, providing four hours each of theory and practice per
day, the latter being closely linked with work conditions.
44.      Extensions to Existing Centers.  Extensions to existing centers
would focus on the provision of new workshops for courses related to local
employment needs, and also on upgrading social and administrative facili-
ties. The latter would allow the centers to become fully functional and
efficient institutions through the provision of boarding facilities, kitchens
and dining rooms, storage and office facilities. The project would provide



- 16 -
for the construction and equipping of 30 new sections in the construction,
metal work and automotive trades, including a course for building super-
visors. This represents a major contribution to the expansion of the
Office's vocational training system, which calls for the creation of 57 new
sections during the current plan (para. 34). The new sections are to be
established in 15 centers (13 vocational and 2 apprentice); they are widely
distributed to reflect regional employment needs and the policy of improving
the distribution of training opportunities, and would add a total of 840
places to the Office's skill training capacity. Total outputs from the new
courses are estimated at 1,130 per annum. Boarding for about 575 trainees in
five of the centers, with appropriate facilities for female trainees, would
be provided.
45.      Re-equipping of Existing Centers.  Although vocational courses and
the apprentice program are satisfactory in terms of content and relevance,
teaching effectiveness is often greatly reduced because workshops are poorly
equipped. In response to this problem, the Office plans to renew its equip-
ment stock. The project would support this policy by providing equipment for
four vocational and one apprentice centers, thus improving the quality of
instruction. The focus of equipment would be in the building, shoe-making,
and automotive trades.
46.      Instructor Requirements.  The new vocational training centers and
the extensions to the existing centers, at full capacity, would require about
120 instructors. As regards apprenticeship centers, staff requirements are
estimated at around 35 to be recruited and trained in the same way as for the
vocational centers. The proposed project institutions would require a total
of about 155 new instructors to be recruited from among experienced craftsmen
and technicians in Tunisia, and among Tunisians returning from work abroad.
Instructor recruits would receive a six-month course at the Rades instructor
training center where sufficient capacity exists for this purpose; a stipend
would be paid during training. The Government is giving priority attention
to the timely recruitment and training of instructors. In order to ensure
competitiveness with industry and enhance the prospects of satisfactory
recruitment, the Government has agreed to offer all instructors under the
project terms and conditions of employment competitive with similar levels in
industry (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(c)).
47.      Employment of Graduates.  The Office places great emphasis on find-
ing employment for the graduates of its vocational centers; currently over
80 percent obtain employment in the first year after completion of training.
The director of each center is responsible for maintaining close links with
local employers, evaluating local job opportunities and placing graduates.
This role would be reinforced in the new project institutions by the opera-
tion of the proposed advisory councils (para. 48). The broader perspective
of regional employment needs would be provided by regional employment
commissions which comprise representatives of Government, employers and the
Office. The joint efforts of the commissions and the advisory councils would
assist in ensuring that the project's vocational centers trainees would be
adequately trained in relation to industry's needs, and would secure employ-
ment in jobs for which they had been trained. To monitor the situation, the



- 17 -
Government has agreed to establish, in consultation with the Bank and before
the graduation of the first group of trainees, an appropriate evaluation
system for each project institution. Evaluation results would be made
available to the Bank for information at regular intervals for a period of
five years starting with the graduation ot the first group of trainees from
each center (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). The problem of finding
employment does not arise in the case ot apprentices, who are already
employed.
48.      Advisory Councils.  To ensure close links with industry and the
continued relevance of training to labor market needs, the Government has
agreed to establish an advisory council for each new project institution,
representative of Government and local employers, within six months after
opening date (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). These councils will
advise on manpower needs, course content and standard of proficiency.
Similar councils will be established for all other training institutions in
the country, as required by the location and needs of each institution and
related industries.
49.      Technical Assistance.  The project would finance about thirteen man
years of expert services and three man years of fellowships. The technical
assistance program would focus on strengthening the role of the Office as the
organization responsible for coordinating vocational training in Tunisia, on
improving the efficiency of the planning organization and management of its
training operations, and its ability to implement projects. The experts
would assist the Office in establishing a long-term strategy for the develop-
ment of vocational and apprentice training in Tunisia, and the most efficient
system to operate and coordinate such training; their qualification,
experience and terms and conditions of employment will be agreed upon with
the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)). The fellowships would be
awarded to officials involved in apprentice training for overseas study of
apprentice training techniques. To ensure the timely provision of specialist
services of high quality, and reduce the risk of difficulties encountered in
the second education project (para. 36), an understanding was reached during
negotiations on the specific objectives, timetable, and modalities of selec-
tion of technical assistance experts. It was also agreed that the Bank will
review to its satisfaction the appointment of fellows and the details of
their training programs (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
50.      The total cost of the project, which does not include import duties
and taxes, is estimated at $47 million, of which $26 million, or 55 percent
is foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of
the estimated cost of civil works, furniture and equipment, and 5 percent of
technical assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated at 26 percent
of baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Cost estimates assume that all
civil works contracts would be awarded to local firms, about 80 percent of
the furniture contracts would be awarded to local suppliers, and that almost
all equipment would be imported. The proposed Bank loan of $26 million woula



- 18 -
cover the full foreign exchange cost of the project, with the balance being
provided by the Government. In line with recent experience in Tunisia esti-
mated technical assistance costs are based on average costs per man-month of
about $7,700 for experts (consisting of fees and per diem), about $2,200 for
fellowships and average travel costs of about $750 per round-trip.
51.      Recurrent costs, when the project will be fully operational, are
expected to be about DT 0.4 million annually, corresponding to about 0.2 per-
cent of projected public recurrent expenditure on education and training in
1985. In view of the high priority accorded to the project by the Govern-
ment, these expenditures are expected to be fully met.
Project Implementation
52.      The project is expected to be implemented over about 5 years.  All
project sites have been acquired. Design work has been reviewed during
negotiations. Final architectural designs for the first phase of project
implementation are being finalized. The project would be implemented by
experienced officials at the Office under the direction of the Project
Director, a technical educator in the Office who has been closely involved in
the project's preparation, and who will be assisted by an education planner
and a specialist in apprenticeship training financed under the project.
Physical implementation would be undertaken by a technical division in the
Office comprising an architect and supporting technicians who handle con-
tracts, bids and the physical supervision of the Office's ongoing projects,
and which will be reinforced by a procurement unit with technical advisors to
be established under the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.      Due to the relatively small size of civil works contracts (averaging
$1.9 million per new center and $0.25 million per extension, including con-
tingencies), the dispersed nature of the sites and the well-developed state
of the Tunisian construction industry, all these contracts, amounting to
$20.5 million including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, and do not
exclude foreign bidders. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to $18.4
million including contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in
large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and
equipment in excess of $100,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB, and in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Small items or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the above figure, items of specialized nature for which ICB
would not be practical, and items which must be compatible with other equip-
ment procured under ICB would be procured under normal Government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and would include, to the extent possible,
quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers; these items would
not exceed an aggregate total of $1.8 million or about 10 percent of esti-
mated costs including contingencies. In ICB comparisons, local manufacturers
of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports, or 15
percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower.



- 19 -
54.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  26 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported and of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufac-
tured furniture and equipment, and 85 percent of local expenditures for
locally-procured imported items. Disbursements would be made against 80
percent of total expenditures for experts' services, and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for fellowships.
Benefits and Risks
55.      Although lack of reliable basic data makes estimates of future man-
power needs difficult, it is nevertheless clear that requirements for skilled
workers will be substantially in excess of supply in the foreseeable future
(para. 33). The development of the Tunisian economy will continue to be
crucially dependent upon the availability of skilled workers to operate and
maintain the economy's complex machinery and equipment, to work in a more
independent role as craftsmen, and to act as supervisors and foremen. At
full capacity, the project institutions would create a total of about 3,600
additional training places, and boarding facilities for about 1,900 addi-
tional trainees; they would produce nearly 5,400 skilled workers mainly in
the metal, building, electrical and mechanical trades and in secretarial
services. The proposed project would make a significant contribution to
alleviate poverty among unskilled workers and craftsmen (para. 17). The
project also includes a substantial component directed towards the training
of women who would have equal access to all the project's training and board-
ing facilities. The planned outputs of the project institutions would add
about 29 percent to the current output capacity of the Office. Qualitative
improvement of the training system would also be effected through the
re-equipping of workshops in existing centers. The project would assist in
improving the regional distribution of training opportunities for school
leavers and adults, contribute to an increased capacity for planning, manag-
ing and coordinating training efforts in Tunisia, and would make a major
contribution to the expansion of the vocational and apprentice training
system controlled by the Office. No undue risks of delay are foreseen in
project implementation. This view is reinforced by the strong Government
backing for the project, and by the support and commitment of personnel in
the Office, and their clear understanding of the contribution that the
project would make to the expansion and development of the training system
controlled by the Office.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of Annex III. There are
no special conditions of effectiveness.



- 20 -
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 4, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                      Annex I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERALCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IQ..)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)S
TOTAL           164.0                                                    HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     76.6                                MOST RZCENT         NDRTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   *-       360.0   1120.0                 818.5                 1562.9
ENERGY CONSIRPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    190.0       261.0    543.0                545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     4.2         5.1       6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0       43.5      50.1                 45.7                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      26.0        31.0      37.0                40.7                    28.1
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    55.0        67.0      78.0                598.6                   81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.3        46.2      42.6                44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        50.0      53.8                52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.2         3.8       3.6                  3.5                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.0                  2.6                    2.7
URBAN                              ..         3.8       3.9                  4.5                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0        42.0      3Z.0                 41.6                   34.8
CRUDF DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0        15.0      12.0                 13.7                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1         3.4       2.2                  2.9                    2.5
FAMILY PLAMING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        29.2      73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN    ..         8.0      18.0                16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
2DFEI OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        98.0    126.0                 93.5                   106.9
P.ER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REiUIREMENTS)                  80.0        88.0    112.0                 103.6                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        57.0      73.0                69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      12.0        14.0      22.0                 17.5                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0        20.0      15.0                 17.5                    8.4
NEALTR
IFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0         54.0      57.0                54.4                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                    148.0/d     135.0       ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        49.0      70.0                 62.5                   65.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                82.9                    80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..           .        ..                  ..                    62.3
URBAN                              ..          ..      30.0                  ..                    79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0      5950.0   4800.0                4688.7                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..       730.0   1070.0               1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           373.0/e    410.0    439.0                  635.5                  480.3
URBAN                              ..       280.0
RURAL                              ..       930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         5.1 if   6.0
URBAN                              ..         5.1 7!   5.8
RURAL                              ..         5.1 7!    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         3.2 tf
URBAN                              ..         2.7 7       ..
RURAL                              ..         3.6 7       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICTITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        24.0 /f
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 22 -                                               ANNEX 1
TABLE 3APae2o                                                              
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                      Page  2  of  5
TUNISIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyLRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME          INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  66.0         100.0      100.0              85.0        102.5       101.7
MALE                   88.0        120.0       118.0            103.7         108.6       110.0
FEMALE                 43.0         79.0        81.0             66.0          97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   12.0          23.0       20.0              27.6         33.5        51.2
MALE                   19.0         33.0       26.0              39.2          38.4        56.4
FEMALE                  5.0         13.0       14.0              20.8          30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  24.0             12.0       17.0               4.3         11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              61.0          48.0       40.0              32.6         35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                            16.0          28.0       23.0              23.4         22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           15.5         24.0/i    55.0               41.4         64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           11.0          13.0       18.0              16.7         13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           41.0          77.0      141.0            147.9         122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.1          10.0       27.0             36.0          38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     19.0         16.0       33.0              17.9         40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0               ..        2.3               2.9          3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1400.0        1300.0/i  1700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      6.1           7.7        8.5               8.6         25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                56.5          49.8       43.0             43.0          43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   17.6          21.0       23.0             23.7          21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   27.0         23.7       23.7              26.7         33.5        33.8
MALE                                    50.2         44.2       44.0              46.4         48.0        51.3
FEMALE                                   3.3          3.6        4.0               5.1         16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.4          1.8/i      1.4               1.8           1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..            ..       17.0             21.4          20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..               ..       42.0             48.6          52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..           ..        6.0               5.3          3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..           ..       15.0              15.0         12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      204.0            201.3         270.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..       97.0            134.2         183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            ..      193.0            288.6         282.5       550.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      193.0            170.0         248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       20.0             22.9          20.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..       15.0              31.2         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /g  Av. 1964-66;   /h  1962;   /i   1966;   /j  1972;   /k  Official intercensal
(1966-75) estimate;   /1  Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1979



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                   Page 3 of 5
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,130 (1979)
Amount                                                       Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                    Actual (at 1972 prices)                             Projected (at 1977 Prices)
Indicator                                 at current prices)
1979                  1975      1976     1977    1978      1979a/          1980     1981     1982     1983     1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product b/                    7080.0                   8.1       7.4      4.3      8.3      6.9             8.0      7.2      6.6      6.4      6.6
Agriculture                                984.7                   3.9      5.2    -7.5       8.6       0.5             8.0      7.6      3.1      3.1      3.1
Industry                                  1982.0                   7.4      7.8      7.0      9.1      8.4            11.6       8.5      8.5      8.0      8.0
Services                                  3102.9                  10.6      5.4      5.8      7.7      8.4             6.6       6.2      6.5      6.5      6.5
Consumption                                  5440.3                    2.7      8.8      9.5      9.3      6.0             7.8      9.9    10.0       6.9       9.1
Gross investment                             2069.0                  20.2    16.9        5.8      6.6      9.7             7.2      3.1    -2.9        1.3      0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                    2655.6                   5.0       9.6      5.6      9.1    12.6              5.0      4.1      7.4      7.3      8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                    3084.9                   2.2    19.3    16.5    10.2          8.5             4.6      7.5      7.5      4.6      9.6
Gross national product                        7030.7                   8.6      6.0      4.8      9.1      6.3             7.8      7.2      6.5       6.4      6.6
Gross national savings                                               22.5    -6.3    -1.7        21.2    35.8             17.6    -0.9    -4.1         7.6      0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                        134.2   137.7   151.4   158.6   171.9                  -        -        -        -        -
Exchange rate                                                         2.49      2.33     2.33     2.40     2.46
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                      Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                 (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1979    1985                        1970-75      1975-79     1980-85
Gross domestic product                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                           8.5          6.5         6.6
Agriculture                                                       16.7   18.2       13.9    13.1                         8.8         1.3          3.7
Industry                                                          20.5   27.1       28.0    29.2                         9.0         7.8          8.1
Services                                                          49.3   42.7       43.8    43.2                         8.7         6.6          6.4
Consumption                                                          84.8   75.5        76.8    82.8                        8.6          8.3         9.0
Gross investment                                                     19.7   29.3        29.2    20.9                       11.8          6.5        -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                            21.9   31.3        37.5    40.3                       12.5         12.2         6.9
Imports of goods and GNFS                                            26.4   36.1        43.6    44.0                       11.3         12.7         7.4
Gross national product                                               97.9   99.9        99.3    99.4                        8.7          6.5         6.7
Net factor income                                                      2.1    0.1        0.7      0.6                        -            -
Gross national savings                                               13.2   24.3        22.4    17.9                        7.5          5.9        -1.7
As % GDP
(at current Prices)
1970       1975       1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                           23.5       25.7        33.3
Current expenditure                                       20.4       19.9        24.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                 3.1         5.9        9.0
Capital expenditure                                        9.5       10.8        13.5
Foreign financing                                          5.0         1.8        1.6
1970-75               1975-79                1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                        8.7                    6.5                    6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                             6.3                    3.9                    4.2
ICOR                                                       2.6                    4.3                    4.0
Marginal savings rate                                     30.5                   17.6                    0,0
Import elasticity                                          1.24                   2.01                   1.12
a/ Estimate.
h/ GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA CP 2C
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                   Page 4 of 5
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  91,130 (1978)
Amount                                                Annual Growth Rates
(million 1S9                  Actual (at 1972 prices)                           Projected (at 1977 Prices)
Indicator                              at current prices)
1979                 1975    1976    1977    1978    1979             1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                       1762.6                 -9.0      5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1             6.1      1.3      7.i    6.8      9.3
Crude oil                               800.0                 27.7   -15.0      1.9    14.0    91.3            11.6    -4.5      9.0      6.6     0.0
Other primary                           123.0               -26.7    21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0             -11.7      5.8     2.7      2.6     2.5
Manufactures                            839.6               -14.6    37.2    -1.5    21.9    14.8               1.3      6.3     6.0      5.7    18.8
Merchandise lmports                       2827.3                 -0.4    13.6    30.4       5.5    11.7            4.3      7.6      7.7     4.6    10.0
Food                                    358.9                  7.7   -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2              7.2      9.9    10.0      6.0     8.9
Petroleum                               493.5                 43.1   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7             -9.8    11.0    12.5    -3.4    37.0
Machinery and equipment                 704.8                 33.3    19.1      2.4     5.2   -11.0            -1.3      1.3     0.0      1.3     0.0
Others                                 1270.2                 -8.0    31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1            9.9      9.0     9.1      7.3     8.3
Price Index (1972 - 100)                         Price Index (1977 - 100)
PRICES
Export price index                          -                   191.0   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9            196.4   218.8   241.2   264.2   293.2
Import price lndex                          -                   170.4   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6            146.6   160.7   175.4   187.4   203.1
Terms of trade index                         -                  112.1   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3            134.0   136.2   137.5   141.0   144.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                 (at constant prices)
1970      1975       1979       1985                1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Fxports                                                        iOO.0     100.0      100.0      100.0                 11.6         9.4         6.1
Crude oil                                                   24.5       41.8       45.3       54.9                 23.2         3.0         0.0
Other primary                                                21.2      18.0        7.1        5.2                  6.7         2.0         3.0
Manufactures                                                54.3       40.2       47.6       39.9                  6.2        14.3         9.9
Imports                                                         100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0                 13.4        12.4         7.6
Food                                                          20.6     15.8       12.7       17.9                  8.9         7.5         8.8
Petroleum                                                      4.0      9.8       17.5       22.6                 36.5        23.2        14.5
Marchirry mod Equipm-nt                                       23.0     30.2       24.9       27.6                 15.7         8.3        -0.1
Others                                                        52.4     44.2       44.9       31.9                 10.6        13.2         8.4
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)          Developing Countries (%)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1970     1975       1979          1970      1975       1979              1970       1975       1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                        62.6     48.6       74.1          23.4      41.4       n.a.              14.0       10.0       n.a.
Imports                                        62.9     67.1       73.5          33.7       25.7      n.a.               3.4        7.2       n.a.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                                Page 5 of 5
TUNISIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USD at current prices)
Population:         6.2 million  (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  51,130 (1979)
Actmal                                                       Irciected
1970          1975          1976          1977         1978           1979_L         198D       1981        1982        1983        19B5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net emports of goods & services            -104.5        -208.8         -417.1        -567.0        -599.7        -478.5        -350.8      -499.5      -567.2      -427.8      -744.7
EIports of goods & services               355.6       1,529.2       1,479.4       1,695.5        2,090.6       2,913.9       3,548.4    4,062.4    4,746.0    5,503.1   7,384.3
Imports of goods B services               460.i       1,738.0       1,896.5       2,262.5        2,690.3       3,392.4       3,899.2    4,561.9    5,313.2    5,930.9    8,129.0
Net transfers                                 53.0          47.4          52.8          46.4           33.6          31.0          36.0        36.0        36.1       36.1        36.1
Cusrest account baiance                      -51.5        -161.4        -364.3        -520.6        -566.1        -447.5        -314.8      -463.5      -531.1      -391.7      -708.5
DIrect private lo-estmeot                     25.5          50.2         102.6          92.3           91.1         164.8         181.3      199.4       219.3       241.3       292.0
MLT b a.ss  (set)                             43.4         124.5         161.1         557.1         468.6          383.0         324.0       346.9      405.7       227.6       559.7
Official                                   41.7          102.9         131.5         286.7         184.8         256.8         364.9       366.4       397.4       328.6      280.0
Private                                      1.7          21.6          29.6         270.4         283.8         126.2         -40.9       -19.5         8.3     -101.0       279.7
Other capital                                  2.0         -53.0          58.6        -185.5           41.4          32.4           -           -           -          -           -
Cha-ge in reserves                          -19.4           39.7          42.0          56.7         -35.0        -132.7        -190.4       -82.8       -93.9       -77.2     -143.3
Inter-atio-al reserves                        15.4         347.5         304.5         247.8         282.8         415.5          605.9      688.8       782.7       859.9   1,134.7
Reserves as months of imports                  0.4           2.4           1.9           1.3            1.3           1.5           1.9         1.8         1.8        1.7         1.7
Actual
1970      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979a/
GROSS DISBIIRSEMENTS
Official grants                                                      43.0       50.2       53.2      47.3       32.7       31.0
-rons disbussements of MLT looms                                     88.8      191.8      227.2     646.7      575.1     661.6
Concessio-al                                                       45.2     100.1      108.7      178.4     182.5      279.6
Otber multiloterel                                                  1.0        5.5        -         0.3        7.6      12.7
Rllateral                                                          41.3       82.0      99.8      172.5     174.1      266.7
IDA                                                                 2.9      12.6        8.9        5.6       0.8        0.2
Non--oncemsional                                                     43.6       91.7     118.5      468.3     392.6      382.0
Privete                                                            33.1       49.8      52.2      311.8     334.8      243.0
Official export credits                                             1.3       15.0      16.5      100.6      12.0       16.3
IBRD                                                                9.2      26.9       25.3       47.5      33.0       55.4
Other  uiltilateral                                                  -          -       24.5        8.4      12.8       67.3
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Dlsbormed                                      544.8  1,038.9   1,175.2   1,780.1   2,358.9   2,893.9
Official                                                          370.9     862.2      987.5  1,308.6   1,567.1   1,931.3
IBRD                                                            70.1      109.8     127.9      167.3      189.4     232.0
IDA                                                             36.7       55.3       64.1      66.8       67.4      67.3
Other                                                          264.1      697.1      795.5  1,074.5   1,310.3   1,632.0
Private                                                           173.9     176.7      187.7      471.5     791.8      962.6
Undisb-roed debt                                                    308.9      725.3  1,260.4   1,551.5   1,708.9   1,569.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                                          63.2      101.6     104.6      143.7      201.6     310.3
Interest                                                           17.8      35.1       38.7       53.9      95.0      142.0
Payments an % emports                                                17.8        6.7        7.1       8.5        9.6      10.7
Payments an X GNP                                                      4.4       2.4        2.4       2.8        3.4        4.4
Average interemt rate on new Lasn  (%)                                  -        3.9        5.1       6.2        7.1        6.3
Official                                                             -         3.3       4.3        4.7        4.8       6.3
Private                                                              -         6.7       8.0        7.7        9.8        -
Average maturity of sew loans (years)                                   -       24.0       20.7      16.3       14.9       19.4
Officlal                                                             -        27.1      23.9       21.4      19.5       19.4
Private                                                              -         9.1       8.9       10.7       9.4         -
As Z of Debt Outntanding
at End of Mont Recent
Year (1979)
DEPT STRUCTURE
Matarity struct-re of debt .stntandig (Z)
Amotization dun witnin 5 years                                                             49.0
Amortza-tion doe within 10 years                                                            92.7
Isterest struct-re of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                                               6.5
0 /  i stilmat ens.



- 26 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of December 31, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                Amount (less
Credit                                                                                 Cancellation)
Number   Year           Borrower                    Purpose                     Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                   162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia            Population                                  4.80      1.14
858     1972  Republic of Tunisia            Tourism Infrastructure            14.00               2.52
937     1973  Republic of Tunisia            Urban Planning & Public           11.00               1.42
Transportation                   -
1029     1974  Republic of Tunisia            Hotel Training                     5.60               0.39
1042     1974  Compagnie des Phosphates       Phosphate Development             23.30              1.63
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068     1974  Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Rehabilitation         12.20              4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                    28.00              13.74
1155     1975  Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                    8.60              8.20
1188     1975  Republic of Tunisia            Second Highways                   28.00             23.14
1189     1976  Banque de Developpement        Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                0.68
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1    1976  Republic of Tunisia            Population                                  4.80     1.12
1340     1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit          12.00              4.10
1355     1976  Societe Tunisienne de          Second Power                      14.50              0.62
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1431     1977  Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Development            42.00             18.56
1445     1977  SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply               21.00             16.26
1504     1977  BDET                           Development Finance Co.           30.00              7.59
1505     1977  Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                4.20
1601     1978  Republic of Tunisia            Rural Roads (Third Highways)    32.00               31.54
1675     1979  Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage             26.50             26.40
1702     1979  Societe Nationale              Fifth Water Supply                25.00             19.92
d'Exploitation d'Eau
1705     1979  Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Development          19.00             19.00
1746     1979  Republic of Tunisia            Second Fisheries                  28.50             28.15
1796     1980  Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation               25.00             24.84
1797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                          42.50             35.98
1841     1980  Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                   36.50             36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Tunisienne de          Second Natural Gas Pipeline       37.00             37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit           30.00             30.00
TOTAL                                                          739.56   70.07   399.37
Of which has been repaid                                         73.46    5.13
Total now outstanding                                          666.10   64.94
Amount Sold                            14.41
of which has been repaid              10.13                     4.28
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                               661.82   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                              397.11    2.26   399.37
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of December 31, 1980)
Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligator                                Type of Business            Loan      Equity      Total
1962      NPK Engrais                               Fertilizers                   2.0       1.5         3.5
1966      Societe Nationale d' Investissement   Development Finance Co.                     0.6         0.6
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                          Development Finance Co.        8.0       2.2        10.2
1970      Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                       Development Finance Co.                  0.6         0.6
1973      Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                  Tourism                       1.6       0.3         1.9
1975      Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                          Tourism                       2.5       0.7         3.1
1974      Industries Chimiques du Fluor            Chemicals                                0.6         0.7
1978      BDET                                     Development Finance Co.                  1.3         1.3
Total Gross Commitments                                               14.1       7.8        21.9
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                  6.7       1.9         8._
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      7.4       5.9        13.2
Total undisbursed                                                                0.5         0.5



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238;        Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date;
(Original) June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1;      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1979;
(Current) December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981. The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1977; (Current)
December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
minor works are expected to be completed by April 1981. Disbursements are
being made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effecriveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1976; (Current)
December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
Transport (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improv-
ing its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029:       Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness; November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) October 31, 1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Procurement of minor equipment and
furniture items will be completed by end March 1981. Disbursements are
being made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan ot October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date;
(Original) June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include; (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness; September 18,
1975; Closing Date: (Original) December 30, 1981; (Current)
June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again, and for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the farmers' contribution to the investment costs. Land reform is
progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area. In Nebhana, the land
consolidation program is developing well and farmers have been settled on
nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large
owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has been reported
in the distribution of medium and short-term credit. Progress in construc-
tion and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues
to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: (Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15,
1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
(Original) June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date;
(Original) December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study has been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189;       Sixth Development Finance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about
one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
present Closing Date of June 30, 1981 may have to be extended to December
31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.



- 32 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. Construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal,
which started one year behind schedule, is proceeding slowly due to some
extent to the force account method of construction adopted, and to manage-
ment difficulties resulting from conceptual differences in methods of
construction between the Tunisian and Chinese workers, and lack of expe-
rience in using modern technology and modern equipment for tunneling and
canal lining.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505:  Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness; October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million pilot loan is fully committed; the $28 million com-
ponent to BDET is also fully committed, and the $2 million allowed for the
financing of SSI extension is half committed. Disbursements are in line
with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601:        Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1979; Closing Date:  June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on



- 33 -                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
the complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln 1675:        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with the consultants. Tender documents for procurement of hulls will
therefore not be available before March 1981. Engines are being procured
under ICB; analysis of bids is still in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



- 34 -                             ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The loan agreement has been amended to reflect changes in OPNT's
financing plan. The main changes are: (i) the reduction in the amount to
be financed by export credits from $20.3 million to $7 million, and (ii) the
percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank; i.e. 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 6 percent of local expenditures instead of 48
percent of total expenditures. The contracts for civil works construction
have been awarded. Work has now commenced at La Goulette after delays in
agreement on an acceptable location of a site for depositing material to be
dredged from the project area. No work has yet commenced at Sfax due to
delays in moving the Chantiers Navals from their present location to the new
fishing harbor nearby, and checking of final design. Consultants to
supervise the works at Sfax have been appointed.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$37.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well and according to
schedule. All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products. Amendment to legal documents is under preparation.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Loan effectiveness is pending ratification of the Guarantee
Agreement, signature of an agreement between BNT and the Ministry of
Planning and Finance, and receipt of the legal opinions.



- 35 -                     ANNEX III
TUNISIA: FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare project:                      18 months (January 1979 to June 1980)
(b) Agencies responsible for project
preparation:                         Office of Training and Employment
(OTTEEFP), Ministry of Social
Affairs, with assistance from
Bank and consultants
(c) Project Identified:                  May and November 1978
(d) Date of Bank appraisal mission:    June 1980
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                        December 19, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:       May 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(i) terms and conditions of employment for instructors under the project
will be competitive with similar levels in industry (para. 46 -
draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(c));
(ii)   a monitoring system to evaluate the employment situation of
graduates of the project institutions will be established for each
new institution in consultation with the Bank prior to the gradua-
tion of the first group of trainees in each center; evaluation data
would be submitted to the Bank for five years following the first
output from the institutions (para. 47 - draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.04);
(iii)   advisory councils with Government and industry representation will
be established for each new project institution within six months of
opening dates (para. 48 - draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05);
(iv)   an understanding was reached during negotiations on the specific
objectives, terms of reference and modalities of technical assis-
tance (para. 49).






tSEOJE ANE                EnZ~                      Tv ,\u    S E      AOUARIA
37-
SO LI SS F F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LII
NEFTA TOZEUR~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~             NZE
FOURTH EDUCATION~~~ PRJC
FOU N= Art  Ce ntes
  Provincial Copitals                     A F RAVI C A
. 36' 'Et1 
Paved Roads   E                                                                 R
\( Ports(                             S|DtBl     \             heZLCAER% 9                     ,  ta                   - .
_  _ o_ )zSTDI AI 3EAURGES F| AlX \ \ t =L=.akesX = L O          AN
,<A\  GAFS,  + A2IEZZ_ Jv\AtFARE5 ; 0 : t 0 . :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  hadOOOOO,, 05 ~d I
LLJ         REDFrEF 5  GUETTAR Ie NJLA                                                                        O        , :             0
L G   Ag  A   ~ = : >  )   MASR 3EKHtEA 9 0  0 0   0    X    X        '
2  --~~- v @ gel (~~~~ t' G/f f ot; Ziobes 0 3ALAH                                       L 
TU  N I S I A                             <            BENI                      X ALI BEN  S                 =
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                           )   KEDDACHE                 / ~~~~~~~~~AR
*    Nrry  ocotona Troinig rentes                <     GHOMRASD               ~          GARDAN K  LIF
9 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    G l  oaimn aEItn   prnieCnes v   E/   Goa
34' ~   ~     L                                                                                                                              34vnilCptls( AFRICA  
Provincicl Boundories    ~~~~~~~~It                tIN+
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10M PoedRodsK 
-32~~~~~~~c --            -------<                                                                             Thede m       ta/o7s,dnth 
*                               DOUZtoo   oudre     0 4  e0 B      0         DdooppL nhnphemaPm2
_~ ~~~~~~~~U                   I I B-B 0                                                                      vcpzeosrbud  s>a



