LOAN NUMBER 1961 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1961 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter      aled the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RIECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable. to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Office" means the Office des Travailleurs Tunisiens
a l'Etranger, de 1'Emploi et de la Formation Professionnelle,
the agency responsible for vocational training responsible to the
Ministry of Social Affairs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty six million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Office with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, training
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in procure-
ment for Part A of the Project and in the carrying out of Part B.1
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its approval a detailed description
of all proposed fellowships.


﻿Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿-4-
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire prior to the
start of the construction of the facilities included in the
Project all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the said facili-
ties.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.


﻿- 5 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the B6rrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and
equipment of the institutions included in the Project to be
adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and
repairs to be made thereto.
(b) The Borrower shall operate the training institutions
and facilities included in the Project in accordance with appro-
priate administrative and educational policies and practices and
with due regard to economy.
(c) In order to enable the Borrower to recruit and maintain
instructors with necessary qualifications and experience in
industry for the training institutions under the responsibility of
the Office, the Borrower shall introduce in a timely manner and
implement conditions of employment for such instructors competi-
tive with conditions of employment at comparable levels in the
industrial sector.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) establish before the
graduation of the first group of trainees from each training
center included in Part A.1 of the Project, and thereafter
operate, all in consultation with the Bank, a system to evaluate
whether the graduates of each such center (A) are adequately
trained in relation to industry needs and (B) find employment in
jobs for which they are trained; and (ii) furnish at regular
intervals, for a period of five years starting with the graduation
of the first group of trainees from each such center, the results
of such evaluations to the Bank for its information.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
six months after the date of opening of each training center
included in Part A of the Project, an advisory council for each
such center, with appropriate representation uf employers from
industry to ensure that the courses to be offered will reflect the
skilled labor requirements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date           Ib/h VV/ , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Secti4124 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist4re du Plan et des Finances
Place de la Monnaie
Tunis
Rfpublique Tunisienne
Cable address:                       Telex:
Minist4re Plan et Finances          MIPLAN
Tunis                               12117 TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By]
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 4,600,000          26%
(2) Furniture and              12,400,000
equipment:
(a) Directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) Imported and                              85%
procured
locally
(c) Manufactured                               100% of local
locally                                   expenditures
(ex-factory
prices)
(3) Experts'                    1,000,000          80%
services
(4) Fellowships                   100,000          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(5) Unallocated                   7,900,000
TOTAL        26,000,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for gopis
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 10 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the Office in (a) expand-
ing and upgrading the vocational and apprentice training facili-
ties, (b) broadening the range of training opportunities and
(c) improving the quality of vocational and apprentice training.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Vocational and Apprentice Training Centers
1.   Construction and equipping of seven new vocational training
centers and one new apprentice training center.
2.   Upgrading and expanding of about thirteen existing vocational
training centers and two apprentice training centers and introduc-
tion of about thirty new courses, through the construction of
workshops and other additional facilities and the provision of
equipment.
3.   Re-equipping of four vocational training centers and one
apprentice training center.
Part B:   Development of the Office's Activities and Training
of its Staff
1.   Development and strengthening of the Office's operations
including, inter alia, the planning, organization and management,
as well -as the evaluation, of its training operations (including
strengthening of its services in charge of procurement and civil
works supervision).
2.   Fellowships consisting of short- and long-term training
courses and internships, for selected staff of the Office.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1985
through   June 15, 1998                     1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                     8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 14
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and furniture in-
cluded in Part A of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent
of or more than $100,000, shall be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on.the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of p,aragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of furniture and equipment in-
cluded in Part A of the Project will be grouped, to the extent
practical, in large packages to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Tunisia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid ,from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 16 -
have to pay for the-importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of furniture and equipment esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, and which
cannot be grouped or which are unsuitable for international
competitive bidding, may be awarded under normal government
procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of at least
three price quotations, provided that the aggregate of such
contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000.
D.   Review of procurement decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank


﻿- 17 -
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if .it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   A?     day of J     , 198 /
FOR SECRETARY


