Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2467 GH
                       ECG Project Agreement
                (National Electrification Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
                        Dated June 9, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2467 GH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ELECTRICITY
CORPORATION OF GHANA (ECG).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 55,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ECG agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ECG, a portion of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
relent to ECG on the terms and conditions set forth in said
subsidiary loan agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS ECG, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. ECG declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. ECG shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ECG Project Agreement
and Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 2.04. ECG shall duly perform all its obligations under
the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, ECG shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) ECG shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   ECG shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by ECG of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. ECG shall carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with a work program (which shall specify the targeted
areas for electrification) satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 2.07. (a) Not later than October 1 of each year, ECG
shall prepare a program satisfactory to the Association for the
training of ECG staff under Part A of the Project.
      (b)  In carrying out Part A.1(c) of the Project, ECG shall
complete, not later than December 31, 1996, a study regarding
productive uses of electricity under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
Page  3
      (c)   In carrying out Part A.1(d) of the Project, ECG shall
adopt, not later than December 31, 1993, terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Association, for the study regarding staff
remuneration referred to in such Part and shall complete such study
under such terms of reference not later than September 30, 1994.
      Section 2.08. (a) ECG shall carry out, jointly with the
Association and the Borrower, not earlier than 22 months and not
later than 28 months following the Effective Date, the mid-term
review of the Project required under Section 3.06 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
      (b)   ECG shall prepare at least 30 days prior to such review,
a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing the status of progress regarding the items listed in the
said Section 3.06.
      (c)   Based on such review, ECG shall, jointly with the
Borrower, promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to the
Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and
shall thereafter implement such action plan.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ECG
      Section 3.01. ECG shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. ECG shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. ECG shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. ECG shall employ, at all times through June 30,
1996, a utility and/or utility consulting firm to manage the
commercial operations of ECG on terms and conditions (including
terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
         Financial Covenants; Amendment of Prior Agreement
      Section 4.01. (a) ECG shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   ECG shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
Page  4
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. ECG shall, beginning January 1, 1993, maintain
Tariffs at a level equal to or greater than the Tariff, as
determined in accordance with the Tariff Formula.
      Section 4.03. (a) ECG shall earn: (i) for its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1993, an annual return of not less than 7% of
the average current net value of ECG's fixed assets in operation,
and (ii) for each subsequent fiscal year, an annual return of not
less than 8% of the average current net value of ECG's fixed assets
in operation.
      (b)   Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, ECG shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by ECG and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that ECG would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for ECG's fiscal years
covered by such review, ECG shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its Tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The annual return shall be calculated by
                   dividing ECG's net operating income for the
                   fiscal year in question by one half of the sum
                   of the current net value of ECG's fixed assets
                   in operation at the beginning and at the end of
                   that fiscal year.
           (ii)    The term "net operating income" means total
                   operating revenues less total operating
                   expenses.
          (iii)    The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.
           (iv)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                   depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
                   of not less than 2% per annum of the average
                   current gross value of ECG's fixed assets in
                   operation, or other basis acceptable to the
                   Association, but excluding interest and other
                   charges on debt.
            (v)    The average current gross value of ECG's fixed
                   assets in operation shall be calculated as one
                   half of the sum of the gross value of ECG's
                   fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
                   at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
                   time to time in accordance with sound and
                   consistently maintained methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Association.
           (vi)    The term "current net value of ECG's fixed
Page  5
                   assets in operation" means the gross value of
                   ECG's fixed assets in operation less the amount
                   of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
                   to time in accordance with sound and
                   consistently maintained methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ECG shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of ECG
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least
1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of ECG for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of ECG, including the debt to
be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ECG
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of ECG's rates in effect at the
                         time of the incurrence of debt even though
                         they were not in effect during the twelve-
                         month period to which such revenues relate
                         and net non-operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.
           (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
           (vi)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
Page  6
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Association.
      Section 4.05. (a) ECG shall settle all bills payable through
the Clearing House System on a monthly basis.
      (b)   ECG shall adopt, not later than October 1, 1993, and
thereafter implement in a timely manner, an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to reduce its receivables to 45
days' arrears or less by June 30, 1996.
      Section 4.06. (a) Until the completion of Part B of the
Project, ECG shall, not later than December 1 of each year, review
with the Association the composition of its capital expenditure
program for the five fiscal years immediately following such review
together with details of the financing plan prepared for such
program.
      (b)   ECG shall not, without prior consultation with the
Association, incur any capital expenditures in any year in excess of
$2 million equivalent other than expenditures relating to Part B of
the Project, or to the "Project" as defined under the Project
Agreement (Fifth Power Project), dated September 26, 1989, between
the Association and ECG.
      Section 4.07. ECG shall transmit to the Association, on a
quarterly basis, a report detailing the funding requirements under
Parts A and B of the Project for the subsequent quarter and the
source of such funds.
      Section 4.08. Sections 4.02, 4.03, and 4.04 of the Project
Agreement (Fifth Power Project), dated September 26, 1989, between
the Association and ECG, are hereby amended and restated in their
entirety as Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.06 (b), respectively, of this
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ECG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
           (ii)    the date 20 years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ECG of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
Page  7
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For ECG:
            Managing Director
            Electricity Corporation of Ghana
            P.O. Box 521
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   HEADTRIC                  2107 GH
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ECG, or by ECG on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and ECG shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                         ELECTRICITY CORPORATION OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Joseph Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by third-party
inspection firms.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, ECG may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for the construction of buildings under Part
B.1(d) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods of a proprietary nature or
for spare parts, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,390,000
equivalent, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the ECG Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the ECG
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the ECG Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
Page  9
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:   Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist ECG in carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, ECG shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
