CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 554 ET
Project Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project - Second Tranche)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BOARD OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF ETHIOPIA
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BOARD
OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Board).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Board shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
under the supervision of competent and experienced management, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Board undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Board to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Board shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Board shall furnish to the Association promptly upon       _
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Board (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. The Board shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Board shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Board
Section 3.01. The Board shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Board shall maintain effective collection procedures to
ensure that payments for the Board's services are brought up to date and maintained
on a current basis.
Section 3.03. The Board shall (a) at all times maintain its existence and
right to carry on operations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business and for the execution of the Project, (b) operate
and maintain its plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
standards; and shall at all times operate its plants and equipment in accordance
with sound business and public utility practices, and (c) shall not without the
prior consent of the Association sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying out of its business and
undertaking, including the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Board shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Board shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts


﻿6
and financial statements of the Board and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
not incur any debt unless the Board's net revenue for the fiscal year next preceding
the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on
all the Board's debt, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a)   the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Board, except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and maturing
by its terms on demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b)   the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i)
under a contract or loan agreement, on the date it is drawn down pursuant to
such contract or loan agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been entered into but
shall be only counted to the extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c)   the term  "net revenues" means gross operating revenue, adjusted to
take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(e)   whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the Board,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board
shall take or cause to be taken, from time to time, all necessary steps as shall


﻿7
be required to provide and maintain revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate
of return of 7% and, before completion of the Project and thereafter an annual
rate of return of 8%.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by dividing the
net operating income of the Board for the fiscal year in question
by the average of the value of the net fixed assets of the Board
in operation at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question.
(ii)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross value of such assets, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, as valued from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation,
acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross  operating  revenue accruing   from  the Board's
telecommunications services; and
(B)   the operating and administration expenses, including taxes
(if any) or any payment in lieu of taxes (if any), adequate
maintenance and straight-line depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. The Board shall take all necessary steps to ensure that it has
available an appropriate amount of short term financing to meet its cash
requirements during the period prior to completion of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Board shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the Board shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their


﻿8
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Board and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Board shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
the Board of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Board shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Board and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Board thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
termiinate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Board of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿9
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Board:
Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
Post Office Box 1047
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
GENTEL
Addis Ababa
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Board may be taken or executed by the General Manager of the Board
or such other person or persons as the Board shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Board shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Board, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Board pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument,


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BOARD OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF ETHIOPIA
By /s / Ato Legesse Tickeher
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    With regard to contracts for extension equipment for existing telephone
exchanges and transmission systems and for special test equipment the Board may:
(i)         negotiate the purchase thereof in order to ensure standardization
of equipment; where this procedure is adopted quotations shall
be invited from the original supplier of the equipment;
(ii)        use of options for additional purchases under existing contracts;
and
(iii)       negotiated  purchase after solicitation  of quotations from
suppliers.
The award or letting of any contract in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods under Category I of Schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement as
well as under Category I of Schedule 1 of the Previous Credit Agreement, a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions may
be granted: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of
entry)   price   for   imported    goods,   or    the   ex-factory  price   for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Board of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.


﻿I
12
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Board
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ethiopia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more for goods other than those referred to in Paragraph 2 below:


﻿13
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Board shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Board shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Board and the Borrower, and state the reasons
for such determination and advise the Borrower of any cancellation pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two confirmed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to contracts subject to the Association's prior approval and
governed by the provisions of Part A.2 hereof, the Board shall furnish two
conformed copies of any such contract to the Association promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract (not referred to in Paragraph I or in
Paragraph 2 above), the Board shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two confonrmed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award !nd such other information as the Association shall


﻿I
14
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, promptly inform the Board and the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


