CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 554 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project - Second Tranche)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4,1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 554 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project - Second Tranche)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1975, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   On January 17, 1974 the Association extended a credit to the
Borrower (Credit No. 453 ET) to finance part of the said project;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by the Board of Telecommunications
of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Board) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Board the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Board, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said Ceneral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several 6erms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Board of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Board pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Previous Credit Agreement" means the development credit agreement
(Credit No. 453 ET) dated January 17, 1974 between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(d)   "The Board" means the Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia,
formerly the Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia, a corporation
created by a Proclamation for the Establishment of the Imperial Board of
Telecommunications of Ethiopia (Proclamation No. 131 of 1952 as amended) of
the Borrower and shall include any successor to the Board.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded pursuant to the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985, and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Board to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Board to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Board
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Board under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the part
of the Board under the Project Agreement, or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(b)   an event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.02 of the
Previous Credit Agreement shall have occurred.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.03 of the
Previous Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.0 1(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Board shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action; and
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Board, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿7
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Board, and is legally binding uponl
the Board in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Board,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Board in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement. whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿8
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By    /s /  Ato Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit;
Amendment of Schedule 1 of Previous Credit Agreement
1.    The table below   sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                 YO Of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category               US. Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Local exchange                 6,300,000               100% of foreign
equipment, sub-                                       expenditures or
scribers dis-                                         100% of ex-factory
tribution networks                                    cost of locally
and subscribers                                       manufactured
plant                                                 goods
(2)  Microwave, multi-              3,600,000               100% of foreign
plex equipment,                                       expenditures
open wire line
material, carrier
systems and trunk
switching equip-
ment
(3)  Earth satellite                  200,000               100% of foreign
station with SPADE                                    expenditures
terminal, inter-
national telephone
exchange, inter-
connecting micro-
wave system, HF
equipment and con-
sultants services
(4)  Teleprinters, tele-            1000,000                100% of foreign
graph and telex ex-                                   expenditures
tension equipment
(5)  Vehicles, tools, in-           1,000,000               100% of foreign
struments and train-                                  expenditures
ing, power and air-
conditioning equip-
meAnt
(6)  Unallocated                    3,900,000
TOTAL        16,,000,000


﻿10
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
5.   The description in the third column of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the
Previous Credit Agreement (referring to the "% of Expenditures to be Financed
under Category I") is amended to read as follows: "100% of foreign expenditures
or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods".


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the Board's development program for the years
1974-1978 and consists of:
(a)   installation of local automatic telephone exchange equipment for about
40,000 lines, and manual switchboards for about 4,500 local lines and
extension of local cable networks and subscribers' plant to provide
about 45,000 telephone connections;
(b)   installation  of  microwave   systems   for  the   Asmara-Tessenei;
Dessie-Assab; Shashamane-Moyale; and Addis-Ababa-Ghimbi routes;
installation of VHF/UHF radio links and coaxial cables; rehabilitation
of open-wire lines; provision of multiplex and carrier equipment for
above facilities; and installation of trunk switching equipment for
Shashamane, and extension of existing trunk exchanges;
(c)   installation of teleprinters, telegraph and telex extension equipment;
(d)   installation of an earth satellite station, with a SPADE terminal, an
international telephone exchange for semi-automatic operation and an
interconnecting micr6wave system;
(e)   acquisition of land and construction of buildings required for the
foregoing; and
(f)   provision of tools, instruments, power equipment, motor vehicles, and
training and air conditioning equipment.
*                 *                 *                 *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


