Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11440-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MAY 25, 1993
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =   Colones (C)
USS 1.00               =   C 136 (December, 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                       British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                 =           0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                      =           3.28 feet (ft)
1 milimeter (mm)                 =           0.039 inches (in)
1 gram (g)                       =           0.0022 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                  =           2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton (tn)                       =           2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =           264 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =           35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
1 liter (1)                      =           0.264 US gallon (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AyA                Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos
y Alcantarillado)
CAAR               Local Rural Committees (Comites de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Rurales)
CABEI              Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM               Central American Common Market
CARE               Care Intemational
FRAU               Revolving Fund for Urban Water Supply (Fondo Revolvente de Acueductos Urbanos)
GAM                Great Metropolitan Area of San Jose
GTZ                Technical Assistance Agency of the German Government
ICAITI             Central American Industrial Technological Research Institute
ICAFE              Costarrican Coffee Institute
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM               Municipal Development and Assistance Institute (Instituto de Fomento Municipal)
KfW                German Development Bank for Reconstruction
MSP                Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio de Salud Plblica)
OECF               Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PAC                Community Self Help Program (Programa de Apoyo Comunitario)
PAHO               Pan American Health Organization
PD                 Planning Department of AyA (Oficina de Planificaci6n de AyA)
PLAMAGAM           Water and Sewerage Master Plan of the GAM
SJMA               San Jose Metropolitan Area
SNE                National Electricity Service (Servicio Nacional de Electricidad)
SPI                Staff Productivity Index
TCUFW              Technical Committee for UFW
UFW                Unaccounted-for-Water



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pagze No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............                                       ............ i-iii
1.  THE SECTOR...........................                                                                I
Macroeconomic Linkages ....................................1... 
Population and Service Levels  .......................................   2
Water Resources, Environmental and Health Aspects ........           .................. 2
Sector Organization . ....................................... 3
Sector Investments and Financing  ......................................   4
Sector Performance ......................................... 5
Lessons from Past Experience  .......................................   6
Rationale for Bank Involvement .......................................  7
2.    THE BORROWER  ........................................  8
The Borrower and Executing Agency ....................................  8
Management and Organization  .......................................   8
Personnel and Training ........................................ 10
Operations and Maintenance  .......................................   10
Commercial and Information Systems ....................................   12
Water and Sewerage Tariffs .......................................    13
Financial Performance ........................................ 14
Financial Prospects ......................................... 15
Accounting and Auditing ........................................                            16
3.    THE PROJECT ........................................   17
Project Origin . ....................................... 17
Project Objectives ......................................... 18
Project Description ........................................ 18
Project Cost  .......................................   20
Project and Program Financing Plan  . ..................................  21
Project Implementation ...................................... ..   23
Monitoring and Supervision .......................................    24
Procurement .         ....................................... 26
Disbursements ............                  ...........................   28
4.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ........................................   28
Project Justification and Benefits ......................................   28
Environmental Impact ........................................ 29
Risks and Safeguards ........................................ 30
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Pae No.
Annex 1:        Sector Investments, 1980 - 1990   ...................................  34
Annex 2:        Lessons Learned From Bank's Past Experience ............ ..............  35
Annex 3:        AyA's Organizational Chart ......................................  41
Annex 4:        AyA's Water and Sewerage Tariffs ..................................  42
Annex 5:        AyA's Unaccounted-for-Water Program ............................... 47
Annex 6:        AyA's Financial Analysis  ...................................  54
Annex 7:        Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in the GAM   ........... .............  65
Annex 8:        Project Description  .................                ..................   69
Annex 9:        Project Cost Estimates ................. ..................  71
Annex 10:       Project Implementation Schedule ..................................  72
Annex 11:       Institutional Strengthening Program  .................................  73
Annex 12:       Operational and Financial Targets ..................................  75
Annex 13:       Monitoring Indicators ................. ..................  77
Annex 14:       Allocation of Loan Proceeds  ...................................  79
Annex 15:       Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule ...............................  80
Annex 16:       Project Implementation and Supervision  ..............................  81
Annex 17:       Sector Policy Letter             .........................  86
Annex 18:       Outline Terms of AyA's Performance Plan ............................  90
Annex 19:       Outline Terms of Reference for Private Sector
Participation and Decentralization Study       ..92
Annex 20:       Outline Terms of Reference for the Institutional
Framework of the Sector .......                ........... 94
Annex 21:       Environmental Assessment ..................   97
Annex 22:       Program for Refinancing AyA's Outstanding Debt with the
Ministry of Finance ......................................  102
Annex 23:       List of Documents and Data Available in Project Files  .........      ............ 105
MAP IBRD No. 24304:            Costa Rica - Second Water Supply and Sewarage Project - SJMA
Rehabilitation Sewerage Works
MAP IBRD No. 24305:            Costa Rica - Second Water Supply and Sewarage Project - SJMA
Water Supply System
MAP IBRD No. 24381:            Costa Rica - Second Water Supply and Sewarage Project
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Costa Rica between
August 27 - September 9, 1992. The mission was comprised of Ms. Augusta Dianderas (LATIE) - Task
Manager; Messrs. Roberto Laver (LEGLA); Manuel Marihlo (LATIE); Abraham Kogan (LA2IE); Jairo Niho
(Consultant); and Luis Carlos Rangel Soares (Consultant, PAHO). The peer review team comprised
Messrs. G. Yepes (INUWS); L. Pereira (LATIE), and B. Gdmez (EClIV). Mmes. M. Quijada, L. Benzi
and M. Fernanda Cash assisted in the production of this report. Mr. Edilberto Segura is the Department
Director, Mr. Paul Knotter the Project Advisor and Mr. Ricardo A. Halperin the Division Chief responsible
for the project.



COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower and Executing      Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA)
Agency:
Guarant:                    'MThe Republic of Costa Rica
Benefiarie:                 AyA and users of AyA services accounting for 70% of the
population of Costa Rica
hn Amoun:                   US$26 million equivalent
I0ma:                       Repayment in seventeen years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Objective:                  The proposed project has four major objectives: (a) help the
Government and AyA strengthen the institutional framework for the
provision of water and sewerage services in the country, including
promotion of private sector participation and develop and implement
sound sector policies; (b) support AyA in carrying out an
institutional and financial restructunng strategy, to increase
efficiency in operations and achieve and consolidate financial
viability; (c) improve the quality of water supply operations in the
San Jose Metropolitan Area (SJMA); and (d) improve the sewerage
service in SJMA, mainly in poor areas.
DesciDtion:                 To achieve its objectives the project would include the following five
components:
(a) Th'M  instititnal   ngthening.prgram (9% of total project
cost) includes technical assistance, equipment and staff training for:
(i) developing and implementing improved sector policies and
institutional framework for the sector; (ii) improving AyA's financial
management and corporate planning; and (iii) decentralizing AyA's
activities taking into account private sector participation and
possibilities for operating costs reduction;
(b) The Unaccounted-for-Water rogram (UFW) (42%) includes
technical assistance, equipment and staff training mainly for: (i)
metering; (ii) commercial system improvement; (iii) updating of
consumer and pipes cadastres; and (iv) operational control of the
SJMA water system;
(c) The SJMA water supply and distribution comDonent (33%)
includes civil works, equipment and consultancy services for the



- ii -
construction of four wells, pipe distribution facilities, storage tanks
and pumping stations;
(d) The SJMA sewerage rehabilitation component (10%) includes
civil works, equipment and consultancy services for: (i) the
rehabilitation of sewage collectors and pumping stations; and
(ii) construction of sewage collectors in a poor neighborhood of the
SJMA to improve its environmental conditions; and
(e) The operations and maintenance com=onent (6%) includes civil
works, equipment and technical assistance for: (i) operation and
maintenance of sewerage systems; and (ii) rehabilitation of the Orosi
pipeline (financed under Loan 1935-CR).
Benefits:                    The project would seek to achieve a framework of clearly defined
and sound sector policies and institutional arrangements to enhance
its sustainability. It would yield important economic, financial,
environmental and health benefits. Economic benefits include: (i)
decreased operational costs resulting from the increase of staff
productivity, the optimization of the production capacity and the
reduction of water losses (physical and commercial); (ii) reducing the
risks to which the Orosi pipeline is exposed; and (iii) increased
revenues from water and sewerage sales, resulting mostly from
additional connections as well as from increased rates.  Financial
benefits would arise from an improved tariff structure and better
collection that will reduce AyA's dependence on Government
subsidies at a time when Government is strapped for funds.
Environmental and health benefits will be achieved by alleviating the
pollution of rivers and streams that run through the SJMA and by
improving the environmental conditions of low-income areas.
Rsl¶a:                       The main risks lie outside the project itself and are linked to possible
slippage in the government's commitment to reform the public sector
and to implement a sounder regulatory framework for public
utilities, particularly after a new Administration takes office in May
1994. To reduce this risk, significant actions were sought before
appraisal and Board presentation in coordination with the proposed
SAL III operation. To reduce the risk of future slippage, annual and
mid-term reviews of project implementation would be undertaken
together with the authorities responsible for public sector reform.
Specific project-related risks arise from AyA's institutional
weaknesses that constrain its ability to improve rapidly its overall
operational performance. To reduce this risk, specific operational
and financial targets to measure AyA's performance will be closely
monitored. A potential additional risk could occur as a result of
possible access to external financing without adequate conditions to
improve sector performance. To address this issue, the Bank is



- iii -
maintaining a close dialogue with the Inter-American Development
Bank (1DB), the other major multilateral donor in the sector, to
coordinate positions on sector policies and priority issues.
Estimated Project Costs (in US$ million):
Estimated Project Cost (in USS million)
COMPONENTS                               Local      Fo''' .- Total
A. Institutional Strengthening            0.7          2.1        2.8
B. UFW Program                            1.5         10.8        12.3
C. SIMA Water Supply                      5.2          4.7         9.9
D. SJMA Sewerage Rehabilitation           2.4          0.6         3.0
E. Operation and Maintenance              0.4          1.3         1.7
Base Cost (December 1992)                 10.2         1:5        29.7
Physical Contingencies                    1.5          2.8         4.3
Price Contingencies                       2.3          3.7         6.0
Total ProjectCost                        14.0-  :       0         40.0:
Yinancing Plan (in US$ million)
World Bank                               -             26.0       26.0
AyA                                      14.0          -          14.0
lTotal                                     14.40        26.;       4.
Estimated Bank Disbursanents (in US$ milion):
Ban _   1                   19_   1997 .19%I9.
|I Anxinual        1.41"     3.5        4.0       5.0        6.7        3.6        1.8
ILe~ ulat1ve   X   1.4       4.9        8.9      13.9       20.6        24.2       26.0
Estimated Rate of Return: Not applicable.
1/ Represents the initial deposit in the special account plus reroative frnning of up to USSU3 miliom
which would be provided for eligible expendiht   inurred after September 30, 1992, but not bore
12 months prior to loan signature.






COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. THE SECTOR
Macroeconomic Linkages
1.1   Since 1982, Costa Rica has reoriented its growth strategy from import substitution to an
outward oriented strategy, with particular emphasis on expanding non-traditional exports to markets
outside the Central American Common Market (CACM). The basic policy franework which
accompanied this structural transformation has been: improving macroeconomic management, gradual
trade liberalization, real exchange rate devaluation, export incentives, and partial financial sector
liberalization.
1.2   The present Government which assumed office in May 1990 is aware that while important
progress has been achieved, the reform process must be deepened and consolidated if it is to provide
a solid base for sustained and equitable development into the next century. In pursuit of this goal, the
Government's development strategy focuses on: (i) accelerating integration into the world economy;
(ii) streamlining and restructuring the public sector to improve its efficiency, strengthen its financial
base, and reorient it away from activities that can be carried out more efficiently by the private
sector; (iii) improving efficiency and competition in labor, financial and capital markets; (iv)
improving infrastructure and encouraging private sector investment to accelerate growth and diversify
the economy's export base; (v) channeling social spending and programs to those in greatest need,
while improving coverage and efficiency; and (vi) protecting natural resources.
1.3   In the water and sewerage sector, the Government is committed to improve its efficiency,
strengthen its financial base and seek major private sector participation. To achieve this, Government
efforts seek to increase the role of the private sector in the provision of water and sewerage services;
for this to happen it is necessary to define an appropriate regulatory framework for public services.
The Government's aims, which the proposed project would support, are to improve the organizational
and operational arrangements for the provision of water and sewerage services in the country;
improve productivity, particularly in the areas of personnel and water losses; define sound investment
and cost recovery policies to strengthen sector finances, reducing its dependence on Government
subsidies; and improve the operation of the existing water and sewerage systems. Measures the
Government is taking or will be taking to address environmental aspects related to the water and
sewerage sector are discussed in subsequent sections of this report. The National Water Supply and
Sanitation Policy Statement (Annex 17) outlines sectoral goals and policy objectives which will be
supported under the project (para. 1.18).



-2-
Population and Service Levels
1.4    Costa Rica's population in 1990 was estimated at 3.0 million inhabitants of whom 51 percent
were urban' and 49 percent rural. Total population is projected to reach 3.7 million by the turn of
the century when the urban population is expected to account for 57 percent of the total. About 1.4
million (45%) of the country's population lives in the Great Metropolitan Area of San Jose (GAM).2
Some 72 percent of the urban population is concentrated in 18 municipalities with more than 20,000
inhabitants, but only three of these municipalities are located outside the GAM.
1.5   In 1990, 92 percent of the total population had access to public water supply through a house
connection and about 96 percent of the population had also access to sanitation services through a
house discharge, septic tank or latrine, although effective sewerage coverage is less because of
substandard conditions of the latter. Water and sewerage services in the GAM are the best in the
country, as 95 and 44 percent of the population respectively has access to water and sewerage through
a house connection. Although coverage of water service is high nationwide, most water systems are
operating with very high water losses (para. 2.7) which in turn compromise continuity of service and
make necessa.y the construction of additional production capacity to compensate for them.
Water Resources. Environmental and Health AsDects
1.6    Costa Rica has abundant water resources. Surface water is used extensively for domestic
water supplies, but degradation of many of these water resources is a growing problem. Important
rivers are being contaminated, especially in the GAM, by discharges of untreated domestic sewage,
liquid industrial wastes (of which coffee processing is one of the most important organic pollution
loads), and solid wastes from municipal services and industry. Liquid industrial wastes produce 85%
of the actual total organic waste, with the coffee mills accounting for 70% of the total. During dry
flow conditions, the ecological problems increase because of the lack of dissolved oxygen in the water
and the deleterious effects on fish life.
1.7    Regarding the problem of domestic liquid wastes, the Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillado (AyA) has initiated a process of improving the sewerage collection, treatment and
disposal facilities of the GAM with the preparation of a Water and Sewerage Master Plan
(PLAMAGAM). Following this, AyA with the assistance of Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECD) is contracting the feasibility study and
engineering designs of a first phase of development until the year 2000. These studies are expected to
be completed by early 1996. The proposed project will finance high priority sewerage actions and
works mainly to address the environmental conditions of poor urban areas in the San Jose
Metropolitan Area (SJMA). These will provide sewerage to up to 10,000 families in the low-income
areas of Los Guido and La Pax, and up to 6,500 in other areas of the city. It has been estimated that
the works to be undertaken in Los Guido and La Pax would represent an additional volume of
sewerage equivalent to only 6% in the organic load dumped into the sewerage system as organic
I Commwsfesa with more dhan 60 howeholds are defined as urban areas.
2   The GAM comprses Ae cap)hal cd of San Jos SMA) and 30 adjacen mwuicipalides of the Provinces of
Heredia, Cutago and AijueLa.



-3-
charge (BOD) and that the overall reduction of the pollution load from domestic sources in the SJMA
streams will be 62%. The negative environmental effects of these works are negligible, while the
positive benefits are evident, as they will improve the sanitary and aesthetic conditions of large areas
of the city, where mainly poor population live. In addition, with project execution an improvement in
the quality of water service is expected.
1.8    To address the problem of industrial and coffee mill waste dumping, AyA, the Costarrican
Coffee Institute (ICAFE), the Central American Industrial Technological Research Institute (ICA1TI)
and the Technical Assistance Agency of the German Government (GTZ) are discussing support for:
(i) programs to improve industrial processes, so as to optimize their water consumption, and (ii)
technical and economical treatment programs for the coffee mills wastes. A pilot treatment plant has
been constructed and is being operated and monitored by ICAFE.
1.9    Although laws and regulations already exist to protect the water resources, their enforcement
is far from adequate mainly due to a complex institutional framework, which has produced overlaps
of responsibilities of public entities and a dilution of accountability for enforcement. Through project
execution, a streamlined institutional framework for the sector would be defined and implemented
(para. 1.18).
1.10   Costa Rica has made steady progress in the improvement of health conditions. Health
statistics indicate that the morbidity and mortality rates of water-borne and sanitation related diseases
have been declining through the years, mainly due to improvements in the water and sanitation
services, particularly in the GAM. Life expectancy in 1988 was as high as 75 years and infant
mortality in the same year was 15 per 1,000 live births, which is one of the world's lowest rates.
Sector Organization
1.11   Responsibilities for water supply and sanitation services are assigned primarily to AyA and to
the Ministry of Public Health (MSP). Municipalities also play an important role by providing service
in many areas. AyA is responsible for services in urban and concentrated rural areas, while the MSP
is responsible for services in dispersed rural areas. The Instituto de Fomento Municipal (IFAM)
assists local governments with concessionary loans and technical assistance. The Servicio Nacional de
Electricidad (SNE), a regulatory body, is responsible for reviewing and approving utility tariffs
including those for water and sewerage services. In addition, the Procuraduria (Attorney General's
Office) and the Contraloria General de la Republica (an independent Government audit/control
agency) oversee all activities of public entities for compliance with national legislation.
1.12   AyA serves about 45% of the population and provides technical support to rural concentrated
communities (about 24% of the population) that have local committees (CAAR) for the management
of their water services. Local governments serve about 26 percent of the population, but only one
municipality (Heredia) has its own autonomous agency, created in 1976, in charge of water, sewerage
and electricity services.' The MSP is responsible for the design and construction of water systems
3  lhc cdr of Canago is also consuldHng upgrading ts Watcr and Santataon Depasmen so an fndependent
agency.



-4-
and latrines in scattered human settlements that house 5% of the total population. Both the MSP and
AyA have legal responsibility for water quality control, but only AyA is currently carrying out this
function in an effective manner.
1.13   IFAM also plays a role in the water and sewerage sector by strengthening municipal systems
and encouraging efficient operation of the services that the municipalities provide. However, most
municipalities are still small, short of financial and human resources and in the initial stages of
development. IFAM's support is not achieving the expected results in strengthening local
governments, mainly because it is mostly financial, responding to immediate needs and without
providing meaningful institutional development assistance. IFAM also serves as a financial window
to the municipalities, channeling government and external funds to finance all types of works covering
the complete range of municipal services, including water and sewerage. These issues would be
addressed under the institutional framework improvement included under the proposed project (para.
1.18).
1.14   SNE is responsible for the approval of utility tariffs throughout the country and for the
administration of water resources, although in practice it does not fulfill this function. The
Government as part of its efforts to increase the efficiency of public services and as a Board condition
of SAL III (which has been negotiated) has submitted for approval of the Assembly the Law for the
Regulation of Public Services, which seeks to transform SNE into a Regulatory Agency for Public
Services. A second tranche release condition of SAL Im would be that the necessary regulations to
implement the proposed Law and an action plan to restructure SNE in line with its new functions and
responsibilities should have been prepared satisfactory to the Bank. If the Government had not
enacted legislation, adopting a comprehensive regulatory framework and the regulations related to
such legislation and an action plan to restructure SNE by December 31, 1994, this would be an event
of default under the project (para. 4.7). In addition, if by the following annual reviews (para. 3.14)
SNE's restructuring plan has failed to be implemented in accordance with its terms and timetable, it
would also be regarded as an event of default (para. 4.7).
Sector Investments and Financing
1.15 During the past decade (1981-1990) sector investments were on average US$ 13 million per
year (about 0.3% of GDP), in current dollars. These investments were financed by: (i) loans (55%),
mainly from the IDB and one World Bank loan; (ii) government loans on a highly concessionary
basis, or grants (24%); (iii) the Family Assistance Fund (13%) that finances a Revolving Fund for
Urban Water Supply (FRAU) and the Community Self Help Program (PAC) addressing needs of
concentrated rural areas;' and (iv) AyA's internal cash generation (8%). However, AyA's positive
cash generation is deceiving, as during this time AyA's debt service was being paid by the
Government. Past investments in the water supply and sanitation sector are shown in Annex 1. Since
investment requirements will more than double historical averages (para. 1.16) and the Government
participation in the grant financing of sector investments is likely to ebb (para. 1.3), a more
4 7he Family AaisUnce F.w d (FAF) was creased in 1978 wih Gowmernjfsi asd fanances e FRAU and PAC
programs a&Wlnt4red by AyA. The FRAU program wag esuab&hed to swnghwn and improve sector
coordJnauon wad to handk emergency waer sqply siaono at bg In IwICpaUy owned sysem. The PAC
progrm is aimed ast soMag Ae water need of covenca rwul area, (se5Xne   wih 200 so 2,000
wnhabitanu).



aggressive strategy to recover costs and improve efficiency of operations will be implemented under
the project (para. 2.14).
1.16  Investments during 1991 and 1992 were only US$ 10 million on average per year, in current
dollars. Investment needs for 1993-2001 are estimated at US$ 293 million, in 1992 dollars (para.
3.7), or about USS 33 million per year (0.6% of GDP) in order to reach by the year 2001 a 96
percent population coverage in water and 50 percent in sewerage (through a house connection).
Additional investments would be required to address sanitation and environmental issues in the SJMA,
and these are still being evaluated. The investments to be carried out during 1993-2001 would
compensate for many years of neglect in the maintenance of AyA's assets in order to bring them to
acceptable standards of quality and would improve operations and reduce costs.
Sector Performance
1.17   Costa Rica has made significant progress in the past two decades in expanding its water
supply and sanitation services and this is reflected in very high service coverage levels that rank
among the highest in Latin America. Nevertheless, there are still major problems to be addressed in
the water and sanitation sector, including the need to:
(a)    define sectoral goals and develop a consensus within the Government on these
goals and how they should be pursued, and develop and implement sound
investment and cost recovery policies;
(b)   improve organizational and operational arrangements for the provision of
water and sewerage services in the country so as to avoid unnecessary
duplications and overlap of responsibilities between sector agencies;
(c)    develop and put in place a sound regulatory framework for sector utilities to
eventually allow and encourage private sector participation;
(d)   improve productivity, particularly in the areas of personnel and in reducing
water losses; and
(e)    assign an increasing share of investment funds to implementing environmental
improvements.
1.18   As noted in para. 1.11, several Government agencies are now active in the sector but
coordination is poor and a common vision of sectoral goals is lacking. In the context of the proposed
project, the Government has provided the Bank with the National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy
Statement (Annex 17), outlining sector policies and goals, institutional reform goals, water quality
targets, financing policies, and the goals of improvement and expansion of water and sewerage
services. The Government attaches particular importance to decentralization, private sector
participation and efficiency improvements. The Government has prepared terms of reference to study
the improvement of the institutional framework of the sector (Annex 20) coherent with its goals of
public sector reform which would be supported under SAL m. During negotiations, agreements



-6-
were reached with the Government and AyA on: (i) the sectoral goals and policy objectives outlined
in the Policy Statement; (ii) the terms of reference of the study of investment and cost recovery
policies and that it would be carried out by December 31, 1994 and a satisfactory follow-up action
plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1995 and implemented thereafter; (iii) the terms of
reference of the study of the institutional framework for the GAM and that it would be completed by
June 30, 1994 and a satisfactory follow-up action plan wil be submitted to the Bank by September
30, 1994 and implemented thereafter; and (iv) the terms of reference of the study for the institutional
framework for the sector and that it would be completed by December 31, 1994 and a satisfactory
follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1995 and implemented thereafter
(paras. 5.1 (a), 5.1 (b), 5. 1(c) and 5.1 (d)). Compliance with these plans would be monitored closely
during supervision (para. 3.14). In addition, through project execution a performance plan that takes
into account productivity and efficiency improvements in AyA with specific operational and financial
targets will be executed and monitored (paras. 2.3, 2.10, 2.21 and 3.13). The regulatory framework
review is being addressed under SAL III (para. 1.14), but to ensure that the proposed project stands
on its own, AyA's performance will be monitored based on operational and financial targets agreed at
negotiations (paras. 2.21 and 4.7).
Lessons from Past Experience
1.19   Bank involvement in the sector has been limited so far to the San Jose Water Supply Project
(Loan 1935-CR approved in 1980). This US$26 million loan was cofinanced by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). The project included mainly the construction of the Orosi water
scheme, which brings water to the SJMA from the Rio Macho catchment, a distance of approximately
28 Km. This project solved the problem of water rationing that the SJMA was facing in the 70's and
part of the 80's, and it assisted in the rehabilitation of part of the water distribution system of the
SJMA and the strengthening of AyA's organization and management. The Project Completion
Report (No. 9166) shows that while the physical targets of the project were achieved with some
delays, the project did not achieve all its institutional objectives, mainly because of major managerial
problems. Nevertheless, some improvements occurred in AyA's commercial management. The
Project also helped to identify the causes of the high levels of UFW, thus facilitating the formulation
of the UFW program under this proposed project.
1.20  In November 1991, the Bank completed a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Overview
(Report No. 10070-CR) which made recommendations for addressing the major sectoral issues as well
as for improving AyA's operational and financial efficiency. This sector report was discussed
thoroughly with AyA and the Government and has been instrumental for project design.
1.21   The lessons learned from the Bank's past activities in the water and sewerage sector and in
other infrastructure sectors of relevance to the water and sewerage sector are presented in Annex 2.
In designing the proposed project, due consideration has been given to these findings and those
outlined in a June 1992 OED' water sector report. One of the main recommendations of the OED
report is the need to develop and implement sound sector policies (as attempted under the proposed
project) and to provide explicit guidance on how to reconcile the objectives of public sector
management and private sector development with poverty alleviation and environmental protection
s      'Wazer Supply and Swaiadon Project - che Bank's Expeience: 1967-1989- Jiaw 19. 1992.



-7-
concerns. The main issues identified in other infrastructure projects in Costa Rica (Annex 2) are
summarized below where we also outline how they are being addressed in he proposed project:
(a)    Physical and Institutional Objectives. Inadequate linkages between physical
and institutional objectives help explain some of the shortcomings in reaching
the main objectives, particularly on the institutional front in several of the
projects reviewed. Thus, a strong linkage between physical and institutional
objectives is the cornerstone of the proposed Project. The overall objective of
the project will be to ensure sustainability, for which it is necessary for AyA
to attain financial self-sufficiency. This objective would be achieved through
tariff actions, the implementation of an UFW program and an institutional
strengthening program (para. 3.3);
(b)    Demand/Production Forecasts. Failure to forecast demand and production
needs with reasonable accuracy is a recurrent problem of most water supply
and sewerage projects. The demand projections for the SJMA were reviewed
to ensure that the proposed investment program is well justified. For the
design of the water facilities to be included in the project all relevant
information on consumption patterns and production was analyzed thoroughly.
This information also was the basis for the formulation of the UFW program.
Since commercial losses account for 55% of total water losses, the program
assigns priority to respective reduction actions. The program defines the
actions to be carried out, targets to be achieved and costs and resources
required. The analysis of AyA's implementation capacity for this program
and necessary improvements received special attention, to ensure a realistic
implementation schedule of the project (paras. 2.8 and 3.3); and
(c)    Cost Recovery and Cash Generation. The setting of a sound cost recovery
policy is very important since Government participation in sector financing
should be eliminated to allow funding of other social programs in a context of
fiscal austerity. In most countries this has been an elusive target. Therefore,
special emphasis was placed on setting ambitious but realistic financial targets
and seeking upfront actions before submitting the proposed project to the
Board. With recent tariff increases, the financial situation of AyA will
improve to a satisfactory level, but future periodic adjustments will be
necessary to counter the effects of inflation (para. 2.14). The institutional
strengthening component of the proposed project also includes technical
assistance to strengthen AyA's financial management (paras. 2.22 and 3.3).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.22   The Bank assistance strategy in Costa Rica seeks to consolidate an ongoing process of
structural adjustment, which is now focusing on public sector reform to lay the basis for private
sector led growth, and to support the continued implementation of poverty alleviation and
environmental programs. Continuing Bank involvement in the water and sanitation sector would
assist the Government to define its goals and main policies for sector development, as well as to



-8-
implement the required policy and institutional reforms (para. 1.18). In addition, it will support the
improvement of efficiency and finances of sector institutions, in order to reduce their dependence on
Government subsidies, at a time when investment requirements are high and government resources
are limited. Since major investmnents in the sector would continue to be financed by IDB, Bank
involvement would be closely coordinated with the IDB and would concentrate on helping to define
sound sector policies and on financing investments and technical assistance for the overall
improvement of AyA's operational efficiency, institutional strengthening and improvement of the
water supply and sewerage services in the SJMA.
2. THE BORROWER
The Borrower and Executing Agency
2.1    The Borrower and executing agency for the proposed project will be AyA, which is an
autonomous Govermment agency responsible for the provision of water and sewerage services to the
SJMA and to other 33 towns throughout the country. AyA also provides technical support to rural
communities and is responsible for coordinating the development of the sector. AyA is under the
jurisdiction of the MSP and is headed by a Board of Directors and its Executive President appointed
by the Government Council (integrated by the President of Costa Rica and the full Cabinet). The
Executive President, also Chairman of the Board, is supported by three senior managers for
Engineering, Finances and Administration (See Annex 3). The internal organization, procurement
procedures, budgets, personnel policies and salary structure are tightly regulated by other public
entities such as the Ministry of Finance, which approves the budget, and the Contralorfa General de la
Repdblica, which oversees all activities of public entities for compliance with national legislation.
The structural adjustmnent program, proposed to be supported by SAL III would include budgetary and
institutional reforms which are expected to bring more accountability in public sector institutions and
reduce red tape, which is a major cause of inefficiency. The proposed project is in line with this
structural reform effort by supporting improvements in the institutional framework of the water and
sanitation sector (para. 1. 18).
Manaeement and Organization
2.2    Following Bank recommendations, on January 21, 1993, AyA's Board of Directors has
cancelled the position of general manager, which overlapped with that of the Executive President,
clarifying the channels of command and authority between the Executive President and the three
senior managers of the agency (para. 2.1). Historically, AyA's management has given priority to the
provision of service and hence has tended to focus on engineering matters. However, AyA's key
managerial personnel often lack adequate expertise in financial, commercial and other non engineering
matters. The Engineering Departrnent together with the six regional offices that have mainly
operational functions, account for about 80 percent of the total agency staff. In contrast, key
commercial and financial activities are understaffed and have generally less qualified personnel.
Consequently, an organizational imbalance exists and the results can be clearly seen. For a long time
AyA has been suffering serious and unresolved problems in the commercial and accounting
departments, a very weak financial department and lack of corporate planning. The proposed project
addresses the strengthening of these areas through technical assistance, including training for the
implementation of the respective reforms (paras. 2.4, 2.10 and 2.22). In addition, during



-9-
negotiations assurances were obtained from AyA that it would maintain at all times senior managers
(para. 2.1) whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2(a)).
2.3    Although AyA has six offices in the Metropolitan Area, Chorotega, Pacifico Central, Central,
Huetar Atlantica and Brunca regions (see map), which are in charge of operations in their respective
areas of jurisdiction, its organization is highly centralized. There is almost no delegation of authority
to the Regional Offices and their managers have to travel extensively to San Jose to obtain clearance
for operational decisions. This organization is not conducive to an agile and responsive management
of day to day operations outside San Jose and is impairing AyA's efficiency. In addition, all levels of
AyA's organization are burdened with cumbersome controls, most of them mandated by other
government agencies. These issues are being addressed under SAL III as part of public sector
efficiency improvement (para. 1.2). The institutional strengthening component of the proposed
project includes technical assistance for the analysis of all these issues and for the reinforcement of
AyA's organization and promotes decentralization as a way to improve productivity. Private sector
participation will also be sought with this same objective. The proposed technical assistance has been
included as part of the technical assistance to be provided by PAHO (para. 3.10). A decentralizatioti
model with its correspondent implementation plan will be developed, defining the role of the
communities and local governments, as well as the private sector participation. The correspondent
terms of reference are presented in Annex 19. During negotiations agreement was confirmed with
AyA that: (i) the decentralization model including areas or functions to be contracted with the private
sector would be completed by June 30, 1994 and that a satisfactory follow-up action plan would be
submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1994 and implemented thereafter; and (ii) 100%
subcontracting with the private sector in all areas identified in the decentralization model would be
implemented by June 30, 1996 (para. 5.2(b)). Compliance with this plan would be monitored closely
during supervision (para. 3.14).
2.4   Efforts are being made by AyA to define long term objectives and targets, so as to develop a
vision of its future which will provide a basis for proposed institutional and managerial reforms and
guide its investments. The corporate planning function is extremely important, particularly at present,
given the need to analyze the effects on AyA's organization and finances of incorporating new
municipal water and sewerage systems. A Planning Department (PD) to coordinate actions with the
different areas has been created in AyA but has not yet been totally organized and equipped. On
February 17, 1993, AyA's Executive President approved the organizational scheme, jobs description
and staffing plan of the PD, all of which are satisfactory to the Bank. Full staffing of the PD would
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.9). The PD would have primary responsibility for overall
coordination and supervision of project implementation, as well as for developing and overseeing the
implementation of short, medium and long-term strategies for the sector and for coordinating and
monitoring the activities of all units within AyA to ensure that the strategies are being implemented.
In addition, such a unit could be expected to coordinate actions on longer term issues, such as
environmental protection of water bodies, that presently receive inadequate attention as management's
priorities focus on short term issues. The institutional strengthening component of the proposed
project includes specific technical assistance in corporate planning for: (i) the design and
implementation of a budgetary process with programmatic content following Government's budgetary
reform proposals which would be completed by December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1996,
respectively; and (ii) the design and implementation of a medium term strategic plan for AyA which
would be completed by December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1997 respectively (Anmex I).
Compliance with these plans would be monitored closely during project implementation (para. 3.14).



- 10 -
The proposed technical assistance has been included as part of the technical assistance to be provided
by PAHO (para. 3.10).
Personnel and Training
2.5    As may be seen in the graph below,
staff productivity has been increasing in the last      STAFF PRODUCTIV1TY
few years. However, there is still room for          Staff per 1000 Water Connections
significant improvement. Some 2,660 persons       ..
work in AyA, resulting in an average staff
productivity index (SPI) of 9.5 workers/ 1,000    la
water connections, compared to less than 5 per     .
thousand water connections in efficient sector               . .
companies of similar size in the region. In                        .
1990, personnel costs represented 68 percent of
the operational costs (excluding depreciation),
compared to 30 to 40 percent in comparable -_,.
sector utilities. During negotiations agreement
was reached on AyA's Performance Plan, that
provides that AyA will reduce its costs by
improving its staff productivity through
decentralization of its operations and by seeking increased private sector participation, so as to
achieve an SPI of 7.2 workers/1,000 connections by 1996 and of 6.6 by 1999 (para. 2.21). Interim
targets have also been established and would be monitored annually (paras. 2.21, 3.13 and 3.14).
Future staff increases, if any, are expected to be marginal. In addition, under the Performance Plan,
agreement was reached on a financial target that calls for a relation of personnel costs to operational
costs not higher than 56 percent by 1999 (para. 2.21). Technical assistance would be provided under
the project for the analysis of the decentralization process, promotion of private sector participation
and achievement of cost reductions (para. 2.3).
2.6    Training is done on an ad-hoc basis and not in response to AyA's main development and
operational needs. These problems are compounded by the constraints put on AyA by the Central
Government through the procedures chosen to keep public expenditures within set ceilings, which
mandate across the board cuts for all autonomous institutions without regards to efficiency or
operational considerations. Training programs would be designed and implemented under the project,
as part of technical assistance to the planning, financial, commercial and operational areas (paras. 2.4,
2.10 and 2.22). About 8 percent of the technical assistance loan component for these areas will be
used for training.
Operations and Maintenance
2.7    The main operational problem is the high level of UFW (49% in 1990 compared to less than
20% in well run sector utilities). Failure to meter consumption, repair meters and leaks, replace old
pipes, and maintain the commercial system and users' census up to date are among the most important
factors that help explain these high losses. Physical losses account for 34 percent of all losses.



- 11 -
Overflows in treaF
water reservoirs are one     UNACCOUNTED FOR WATER
of the main causes of                               UFW
physical losses, and are
due to lack of adequate
level control valves in
these reservoirs.
Approximately II                                Phil   Billing Errors        Free Water
percent of the UFW is     MocromterIng           34_        17%       \         27%C
due to deficiencies in the   11%                -
estimates of water                                     Motoring
produced. Commercial                                    15% -                   n
losses represent 55       CommerciOl                                             41 N
percent of total losses,     55%  
and they are related to
consumers' register                 Coposition                  Commercial
deficiencies and to                of UFW (I 990)                  Losses
inadequate meter reading
and handling of complaints. Only 80 percent of AyA's users are metered and it is estimated that the
20 percent of non-metered users account for 45 nercent of the commercial losses. In addition, due
mainly to the lack of spare parts there are some l1,000 meters (5% of total) that are not functioning.
Financing to purchase meters would be available from the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI), IDB and from the proposed project (para. 3.7). In addition the information
routinely provided by the meter readers on the condition of the meters is not being used to guide
maintenance programs. Also, because of inadequate controls, meters are often not read and the user
is billed according to historical consumption averages. As a result of this neglect, water waste by the
consumer is increasing as users are charged on a flat rate basis and the price signals to conserve water
are removed. Moreover, this water waste is depriving AyA of important revenues and increasing its
operational costs unnecessarily. The lack of adequate data on consumption deprives AyA of valuable
information to guide day to day operations of the distribution system and to properly plan the
expansion of the different systems. All these issues would be addressed under the project when
designing and implementing the commercial system (para. 2.10).
2.8   In 1990, AyA began the implementation of corrective actions to reduce UFW by carrying out
a new census of the SJMA users and by adjusting its billing process. As a result UFW has been
reduced in the SJMA by some 9 percentage points thus far and monthly billings have increased by 20
percent. Since the main causes of the UFW have been identified, an ambitious focussed program for
the reduction of these losses has been designed with Bank assistance and will be implemented under
the proposed project. The UFW program assigns priority to actions in the following areas: metering;
commercial system; consumer and pipes cadastres; and operational control of the SJMA water system.
The proposed goal is to reduce the level of UFW from 49% in 1990 to 289% in 1999. Details of the
program are shown in Annex S.
2.9   In general, maintenance is done when a problem arises, instead of being programmed to
preserve AyA's operating assets. Maintenance problems are noticeable in the Bank-financed Orosi
pipeline (para. 1. 19), that provides half of the water to SJMA. Although unstable soil conditions that
threaten the stability of this pipeline were identified almost two years ago (when a major earthquake
hit Costa Rica on April 22, 1991), corrective actions were not taken immediately, in part due to the



- 12 -
precarious financial situation of AyA. The project includes a vulnerability study of the Orosi pipeline
to natural hazards, as well as financing of the equipment and works required for its protection. The
proposed study has been included as part of the technical assistance to be provided by PAHO (para.
3.10). During negotiations, agreement was reached that this study will be completed by December
31, 1994, and that a satisfactory follow-up action plan detailing the organizational and engineering
measures to protect the pipeline would be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1995 and would be
implemented thereafter (para. 5.2(c)). Compliance with this plan would be monitored closely during
supervision (para. 3.14).
Commercial and Information Systems
2.10   In early 1989 AyA implemented a new billing system for the SJMA, which has several
serious limitations. Among them are lack of integration with the financial system and inability to
produce managerial monthly reports needed for follow up and decision-making. In addition, bills are
issued without previous pre-billing or review process to detect errors, and require billing adjustments
of around 18 percent of total monthly billings. These problems are magnified at the regional offices,
as they are operating with an outdated billing system and lack operational autonomy (para. 2.3). All
these issues would be addressed under the proposed project under the UFW program, which assigns
priority to the commercial area (para. 2.8). The proposed technical assistance has been included as
part of the technical assistance to be provided by PAHO (para. 3.10). [uring negotiations,
agreement was reached that upon completion of the design of the commercial system, no later than
June 30, 1994, AyA would furnish to the Bank a satisfactory follow-up action plan by September 30,
1994 and would implement this plan thereafter (para. 5.2(d)). Compliance with this plan would be
monitored closely during supervision (para. 3.14).
2.11   Another aspect of the commercial operations that needs to be addressed is collection
efficiency. To improve this, AyA is taking corrective actions to clean up its accounts receivable and
to implement an active disconnection policy for lack of prompt payment. In 1991, AyA's accounts
receivable were equivalent to 3.9 months of billing. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with AyA that by December 1993 its accounts receivable will not exceed 2.5 months of billing and
that it will not exceed this level every year thereafter (para. 2.21). Through periodic reports and
regular supervision the Bank intends to monitor this target closely (paras. 3.14 and 3.15).
2.12   AyA does not have adequate management information and cost accounting systems that
provide relevant, timely and accurate information to all levels of management. Basic information on
billings, unit costs per cost center, cash flow and maintenance needs, for instance, are not routinely
produced, and monitoring indicators to assess performance of different units or departments do not
exist. In other areas, the reports are not managerial and result oriented, and therefore, of little or no
relevance for decision making. The only regular reports come from the Commercial area, although
they are hardly used in the decision-making process, perhaps because they are numerous and not
always relevant. These management information system (MIS) issues would also be addressed as part
of the commercial and accounting systems to be implemented under the proposed project (paras. 2.10
and 2.22).



- 13 -
2.13   There is no compatibility and uniformity in the basic data processing equipment used by AyA.
The two mainframe computers, one located in the financial department and the other in the
commercial department, use different processors and incompatible software that do not allow the
electronic exchange of information among them. As a result the accounting department has to input
information from the commercial department manually, increasing the risk of errors and slowing
down the process. The proposed project would provide technical assistance under the UFW and the
institutional strengthening components to support AyA in establishing coordinated and compatible
commercial and financial systems (paras. 2.10 and 2.22).
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
2.14   The lack of sound cost recovery policies partly accounts for the poor financial situation of the
water and sanitation sector in Costa Rica. This issue is more evident at the local government level
where municipalities apply tariff policies which vary widely and in general fail to structure charges to
recover costs and discourage the wasteful use of water. Until 1991, tariffs were insufficient to cover
AyA's operating and maintenance expenses and debt service obligations. In December 1991, AyA
with Bank assistance, prepared a proposal for tariff increases which was approved by SNE in March
1992. The new rates became effective in April 1992 and provided for an average increase in the
water tariffs of 18% in April and a series of monthly increases of 3.5% until April 1993, which has
now been extended until July 1993 (See Annex . Sewerage levies on those houses that have
sewerage connections are 18 percent of the water charges and thus are being increased in parallel.
Satisfactory implementation of this program of monthly increases would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 5.3 (a)). The average water rate for AyA's operated systems expected for July
1993 would be equivalent to about USS 0.35/m3, and the average water tariff for the SJMA to about
USS 0.45/m3 which is in line with the estimated average incremental cost (AIC) of water. These
rates, adjusted annually to compensate inflation, would permit AyA to cover its operational costs and
debt service, as well as to generate sufficient cash to contribute about 22% to its 1993-2001
investment program, provided the envisaged performance and cost control measures are also
implemented (paras. 2.21 and 3.13). During negotiations, agreement was reached with AyA on the
operational and financial targets that have been incorporated in its Performance Plan (para. 2.21 and
3.13) and that the achievement of these would be reviewed annually (para. 3.14). As a consequence
of these reviews, and if the Bank shall so recommend, AyA will formulate a satisfactory proposal for
tariff adjustments to the regulatory authority, SNE, within a framework of time acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.2()). The approval of such tariff increases, as may be required, will be one of the
factors to enable AyA to comply with the financial targets proposed under the project (para. 2.21). If
SNE or any other authority having jurisdiction does not review and grant approval to any of the tariff
adjustments requested by AyA that are required to achieve its financial targets within 75 days of their
respective publication in the official gazzette, it would be regarded as an event of default (para.
5.4(a)).
2.15   AyA's tariff structure provides for four consumer categories (residential, commercial,
industrial and concessional) and five narrow consumption block rates for the first 60 m3 of water
consumed monthly. Separate tariff schedules are maintained for the SJMA, other urban centers and
rural areas. Outside San Jose, urban and rural rates are 90 and 70 percent of the SJMA rates.  The
tariff structure and its analysis are presented in Annex. AyA's tariff structure has the following
main drawbacks:



- 14 -
(a)    consumers with the basic fixed charge are subsidizing consumers with higher
levels of consumption;
(b)    commercial, industrial and concessional tariffs fail to discourage the wasteful
use of water;
(c)   the rationale and criteria for classifying commercial and industrial businesses
are not clear; and
(d)   flat rates assigned to unmetered users, particularly in the industrial and
concessional categories, do not take into account the higher consumption of
unmetered connections.
Under the institutional strengthening component, technical assistance has been
included to study AyA's tariff structure and propose the necessary adjustments to eliminate the
mentioned drawbacks. In addition, a study and corresponding implementation plan to adjust the
sewerage charges in the SJMA and to determine the charges to be established in other urban areas
(including sewerage treatment) will also be carried out as part of the technical assistance program to
be provided by PAHO (para. 3.10 and Annex II).
Financial Performanc
2.16   AyA's financial results for the years 1986-92 are shown in Annex 6. During this period,
AyA's cash generation was insufficient to contribute to its investment program approximately
USS 17 million. The situation deteriorated since 1988, as operating losses tended to increase (USS
1.0 million, USS 6.5 million and USS 3.3 million in 1988, 1989 and 1990, respectively) but AyA's
financial situation has begun to improve since 1991 (para. 2.14). Until 1992, AyA's net contribution
to investments was not internally generated as the result of an increase in current liabilities. In 1989
and 1990 AyA could not cover its debt service payments from its internal cash generation.
2.17   A substantial increase in operating costs coupled with lower than expected increases in
revenues contributed to the deteriorated financial situation. While on average current operational
revenues increased during the period 1986-1990 by 17% per year (i.e. only roughly at the rate of
inflation, despite significant increases in the volume of water billed), operating costs increased by an
average of 25% per year, reflecting real production volume increases and loss of efficiency as well as
inflation. Inadequate tariff adjustmnents during periods of relatively high inflation and currency
devaluation (no tariff adjustments were made during 1988 and 1989), coupled with lack of control of
operational expenses and lax commercial practices in billing and collection have been the main
reasons for this unsatisfactory financial performance.
2.18   Unsound investment and bulk water pricing decisions have aggravated AyA's financial
situation. With external financing, AyA constructed water systems in municipalities which were not
part of the AyA system, for which AyA assumed the corresponding debt service without due
consideration to the sub-borrowers' capacity to pay. In most cases these municipalities were not in a
sound financial situation and the prospects of repayment were from the outset very slim. AyA also
entered into long term contracts with local governments to supply bulk water at a set price which is



- 15 -
much lower than the real cost of producing this water. These problems have been taking into account
in the financial projections, as part of the refinancing agreement with the Ministry of Finance (para.
2.20) and will be totally eliminated once the revised institutional framework of the sector has been
implemented (para. 1.18).
2.19 During 1986 to 1990 AyA obtained the cash needed to finance its current operation and
capital investments through: (i) government equity contributions; (ii) government grants in an amount
equivalent to about US$ 20.0 million to service AyA's debt service ; and ( iii) increases in current
liabilities. Performance improved during 1991 and 1992, when AyA generated sufficient cash to
cover its operational costs, debt service, and on average about 30 percent of its investment program.
Financial Prosets
2.20   AyA's financial projections (Annex 6 are based on a strategy to achieve and maintain
financial self-sufficiency, so as to permit AyA to operate and maintain adequately its water and
sewerage systems and pay debt service and make a reasonable contribution to its investment program.
The basic assumptions of the financial projections are:
(a)   implementation of a tariff increase of about 41 percent in real terms between
1992-1993 and additional annual increases to compensate for inflation in 1994
and thereafter;
(b)   reduction of the UFW levels to 44% by 1993, 29% by 1996, and 28% by
1999;
(c)   staff increases, if any, beyond the present level of 2,660 will be marginal until
1999;
(d)   outstanding debt with the Ministry of Finance will be refinanced based on the
agreed amortization plan (See An=e 22);
(e)    AyA's 1993-2001 investment program will amount approximately to USS 293
million (in 1992 USS);
(f)    AyA's investment program will be financed through external loans (59%),
external grants (5%), Government contributions (11%), communities and
municipalities contributions (3%) and AyA's internal cash generation (22%)
(para. 3.7).
2.21  In support of the timely implementation of the investment program and the achievement of the
operational improvements supported by the proposed project, during the appraisal mission in
September 1992, AyA agreed to the following operational and financial targets (An    12) that have
been incorporated in its Performance Plan (para. 3.13):
(a)   achieve a micrometering level of 79% in 1993, 91% in 1994, 96% in 1995
and 99% in 1996 and thereafter (micrometering levels in 1991 and 1992 were
77% and 74% respectively);



- 16 -
(b)   attain a macrometering level in the SJMA of 50% in 1994, 60% in 1995, 80%
in 1996 and 100% in 1997 and thereafter (macrometering levels in the SJMA
in 1991 and 1992 were almost zero);
(c)   reduce the UFW levels to 44% in 1993, 39% in 1994, 34% in 1995, 29% in
1996 and 28% in 1997 and thereafter (UFW levels in 1991 and 1992 were
46%);
(d)   achieve a SPI of 8.2 in 1993, 7.8 in 1994, 7.5 in 1995, 7.2 in 1996, 7.0 in
1997, 6.8 in 1998 and 6.6 in 1999 (SPI in 1991 and 1992 were 9.1 and 8.6
respectively);
(e)   attain a working ratio of 0.55 in 1993 and 1994, and 0.5 in 1995 and
thereafter (the working ratio for 1991 and 1992 was 0.7);
(f)   achieve a debt service coverage ratio of 2.4 in 1993 and thereafter (the debt
service coverage ratios for 1991 and 1992 were 1.3 and 1.7, respectively);
(g)   attain a relation of personnel costs to operational costs not higher than 58
percent in 1993-1996, 57 percent in 1997 and 56 percent in 1998-1999 (this
relation was 64% in 1991 and 58% in 1992); and
(h)   achieve a contribution to investment of 14% in 1993 to 1995, 20% in 1996
and 30% in 1997 and thereafter (the contribution to investment was about
30% during 1991 and 1992, but investment requirements are expected to
increase significantly starting in 1993).
This agreement on the operational and financial targets in AyA's Performance Plan
has been confirmed during negotiations (para 5.2(e)). Actual performance, and possible revisions of
the agreed upon targets will be reviewed annually by SNE as part of the information to be considered
for the approval of tariffs (para. 2.14), as well as by the Bank to assess compliance with the Plan and
to agree with AyA on any corrective actions that may be necessary (paras. 3.14 and 4.7).
Accounting and Auditing
2.22 AyA's accounting system (financial, costs and budgetary systems) is mostly manual and is not
integrated with the commercial system (billing and collection). Therefore, there are problems with
the conciliation of revenues and the accounting information is not timely enough for management
decisions. In addition, no budgeting and cost accounting systems are in place to help management
with its decision making. To address these issues, AyA has been attempting to implement a
comprehensive computerized accounting system but without success since the system is not designed
to integrate the financial, budgeting and cost accounting systems nor the commercial system.
Therefore, technical assistance has been included under the Project, for an integrated management
accounting system that would integrate the financial, budgetary and costs systems. This would permit
AyA to have a budgeting system not just geared to the needs of the government, but with
management objectives in mind, together with a cost accounting system that would increase awareness
and responsibility for costs at the different management levels. This new system would also be



- 17 -
integrated with the commercial system to be developed under the project (para. 2.13). This integrated
accounting management system will also be the basis for the medium and long range corporate
planning (para. 2.4). The proposed technical assistance has been included as part of the technical
assistance to be provided by PAHO (para. 3.10). During negotiations, agreement was reached with
AyA that upon completion of the design of the accounting system, no later than June 30, 1994, AyA
would furnish to the Bank a satisfactory implementation plan by September 30, 1994 and would
implement this plan according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2(f)). Compliance with
this plan would be monitored closely during supervision (para. 3.14).
2.23   Financial statements up to and including 1991 have been audited by a private auditing firm,
with minor qualifications. Following the practice of the previous years, the financial statements of
1992 will be audited by June 1993. During negotiations, agreement was reached with AyA that it
would continue using qualified private independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, to review yearly
its financial statements, project expenditures, Special Account and Statements of Expenditures and that
the Auditor's Reports, including a management letter reviewing the adequacy of accounting
procedures, internal controls and management practices, would be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each financial year (para. 5.2(g)).
3. THE PROJECT
Project OQigin
3.1   The proposed project supports the Government's plans to improve the efficiency and finances
of sector institutions in order to reduce their dependence on Government subsidies and is being
coordinated with parallel efforts under the proposed SAL m, which would support public sector
reform. Further Bank assistance to the sector was envisaged under the first Bank loan to AyA (Loan
1935-CR) which was completed by mid 1989. Initially AyA requested the Bank only to finance
investments to improve water supply services in the GAM (mainly the development of well fields and
the expansion of water storage and distribution network), to improve its UFW levels and to
consolidate the institutional strengthening gains achieved with the first Bank operation. Subsequently,
it was also agreed that the institutional framework for the sector should be reviewed and improved.
In addition, the project includes improvements in the water and sewerage services of the SJMA, as
well as actions required to support AyA in carrying out an institutional and financial restructuring, to
increase efficiency in operations and consolidate AyA's financial viability.



- 18 -
Project Objectives
3.2    The proposed project has four major objectives:
(a)    Help the Government and AyA to improve the institutional framework for the
provision of water and sewerage services in the country, including promotion
of private sector participation, and to develop and implement sound sectoral
policies;
(b)    Support AyA in carrying out an institutional and financial restructuring, to
increase efficiency in operations and achieve and consolidate financial
viability. Key elements of the restructuring program include reduction of
operating costs (especially of personnel), increased tariffs and improved tariff
structures, measures to increase private sector participation through the use of
service contracts and decentralization of AyA's actual organization;
(c)   Improve the operation of the existing water supply system in the SJMA (see
Annex 7), by reducing water losses, defining pressure zones better and
increasing storage and regulation capacity in the distribution system. These
actions would also help reduce operating costs and postpone large capital
investments that would otherwise be required; and
(d)   Improve the SJMA sewerage service, (see Annex 7) mainly to address the
environmental conditions of poor urban areas.
Project Description
3.3    The proposed project, which would be carried out during a six year period, between 1994 and
1999, includes five main components as described in detail in Annex  and summarized below:
A.    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM - (9% of total project cost).
The program comprises equipment, technical assistance and staff training for:
1.    Development and implementation of sound sector policies, especially
investment and cost recovery policies, and development and implementation of
the institutional framework reform;
2.    Improvement of AyA's corporate planning, including: (i) the development and
implementation of a budgetary process with programatic content following
Government's budgetary reform; and (ii) the development and implementation
of a long term corporate plan;



- 19 -
3.    Improvement of AyA's financial management, including: (i) the development
and implementation of an integrated accounting system; (ii) the reform of the
water tariff structure; and (iii) the development and implementation of
sewerage rates to be applied in the SJMA and other urban areas; and
4.    Operating costs reduction, private sector participation and decentralization,
including the development and implementation of a decentralization model
promoting major private sector participation.
B.    UNACCOUNTED-FOR-WATER REDUCTION PROGRAM (UFW  - (42% of total
project cost).
The program comprises equipment, technical assistance and staff
training needed for the implementation of the following priority projects:
1.    Metering, including: (i) procurement and installation of approximately 86,300
new meters; (ii) replacement of approximately 25,000 old meters; (iii) repair
of approximately 13,000 meters; and (iv) procurement and installation of
macrometers to control water production in the SJMA;
2.    Commercial System, including: (i) the definition, development and
implementation of an integral commercial system linked to the accounting
system; (ii) development of a commercial management information system;
and (iii) development and implementation of special procedures for the control
of consumers with high levels of water consumption;
3.    Updating of consumer and pipes cadastres, including: (i) the incorporation of
illegal water connections to AyA's consumers cadastre; and (ii) the
development and implementation of the pipes cadastre.
4.    Operational Control of the SJMA water supply system, including the
development and implementation of an operational control system to improve
its efficiency; and
5.    Replacement of approximately 8,000 water connections in the SJMA (about
12% of total connections).
C.    SJMA WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM - (33% of total project
cost), including:
1.    Installation of 19 km. of primary distribution pipes (arger than 300 mm) and
57 km. of small diameter pipes (50 to 300 mm) in the distribution system;
2.    Construction of 10 storage tanks (one each in Curridabat, San Isidro, Belo
Horizonte, San Juan de Dios, Pizote, Mata de Platano, and two each in San
Pablo and Coronado) with a combined capacity of 21,500 m3;



- 20 -
3.    Construction of production facilities consisting of 4 wells, 2 in Potrerillos and
2 in Zona Norte, with expected increase in water production of 0.3 m3/sec;
4.    Construction of four water pumping stations; and
5.    Consultancy services for the final designs of some of the above mentioned
works and supervision during construction.
D.    SJMA REHABILITATION SEWERAGE WORKS - (10% of total project cost),
including:
1.    Rehabilitation and/or interconnection of sewage collectors that will incorporate
into the system 6,500 sewerage connections (households) benefitting some
32,000 inhabitants;
2.    Installation of 27 km of secondary sewage collectors (smaller than 400 mm) to
improve the environmental conditions of two poor neighborhoods, Los Guido
and La Pax, benefitting about 27,000 inhabitants;
3.    Rehabilitation of seven sewage pumping stations; and
4.    Consultancy services for the final designs of some of the above mentioned
works and supervision during construction.
E.    OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE - (6% of total project cost), including:
1.    Purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance of sewerage systems;
and
2.    Consulting services, equipment and civil works required for the vulnerability
study and maintenance of the Orosi pipeline.
Project Cost
3.4    The total project cost is estimated at USS 40.0 million equivalent, including physical and price
contingencies, net of duties and taxes. A summary of estimated project costs is presented in Table 1,
and a detailed cost estimate is given in Annex 9.
3.5    The project is in an advanced stage of preparation, and cost estimates for all construction and
equipment purchase components are based on preliminary designs or on the costs of recently awarded
contracts for similar works or equipment. Base prices are based on current prices as of December
1992. Physical contingencies were calculated assuming 15% for components B, C, D and E and 10%
for component A. Price contingencies were calculated assuming project start-up in 1994 so as to take
into account the historic lengthy Congressional approval process in Costa Rica and a project execution
period of six years, at an estimated international inflation of about 3.7% per annum between 1993-
1999. It is assumed that any future exchange rate adjustments will reflect the difference between
domestic and international inflation.



- 21 -
Table 1 ESIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(In USS million)
NENTJ             ISIBASI
COMPONT           LOCAL   V`OREIGN,  TOTAL        COST.
A.
Institutional         0.7        2.1       2.S        9
Strengthening
B.
UFW Progrm            1.5       10.8       12.3      41
C.
SJMA Water Supply     5.2        4.7       9.9       33
D.
SWMA Sewerage
Rehabilitation        2.4        0.6       3.0       10
E.
Operation and
Maitenance            0.4        13        17         6
BASE COST
(Dec. 1992)           10.2      19.5      29.7      100
Pbysical
Coninncies            1.5        2.8       4.3       14
Price
Contingencies         2.3        3.7       60       20
TOTAL
PROJECT COST          14.0      26.0       40.0     135
Project and Program Financing Plan
3.6    The project financing plan is presented in Table 2. The proposed Bank loan of US $26.0
million, which corresponds to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, represents 65% of
total project cost, net of taxes. AyA's internal cash generation will be sufficient to finance the
balance, provided: (i) its water rates continue to be increased monthly by 3.5% until July 1993 and
from then on as required to enable AyA to comply with the financial targets to be agreed upon under
the project (paras. 2.14 and 2.21); and (ii) the agreed operational targets are achieved (para. 2.21).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AyA would submit to the Bank, not later than
September 30 of each year: (i) its financial projections for the following six year period; (ii) its six-
year investment plan with specific details for the upcoming year; and (iii) the project's investment
plan with specific details for the upcoming year (para. 5.2(h)), all satisfactory to the Bank. It was
also agreed during negotiations that AyA, prior to approving or making any commitment in respect to
a major investment (in excess of US$500,000), would provide evidence to the Bank that the
investment in question would have no adverse effect on AyA's agreed operational and financial
performance. It was agreed that grant-financed investment and also those investments already
included in AyA's overall investment plans would be excluded from the above requirement (para. 5.2
(i)).



- 22 -
Table 2. PROJC FINANCING PLAN
(USS bLko)
..... . . . . . . . . . . . ..   . .,- ' t-;-;-t 
_    _     _.::\-i-,,:   - i,7
Wodd Bank         26.0    65
AyA'a ltnurr
Cab G.m.ation    14.0    35
TOTAL          40.0    100
3.7    AyA's overall investment program for the period 1993-2001 is estimated at USS 293 million
and includes almost exclusively investments in water supply (74% of the total) and sewerage (23% of
the total). Investments in water supply are to be executed in the SJMA (33% of the total), other
urban areas (49% of the total) and rural areas (18% of the total). Investments in sewerage are to be
executed in the SJMA (65% of the total) and other urban areas (35% of the total). To finance its
program of sector investments, AyA has already signed three loans with IDB/OECF, KfW and
CABEI respectively, in amounts that represent in total about USS93 million which is equivalent to
32% of the total investment program. In addition the proposed project, together with new projects to
be financed by international agencies after 1998, would increase the external financing by US$79
million, equivalent to an additional 27%. Grants from CARE International and OECF are also
expected for the financing of a watershed protection study and sewerage studies in the SJMA and
other urban areas, in an amount equivalent to 5%. Local contributions in an amount equivalent to -
i1 % would come from Goverment through FAF (para. 1.15) and are earmarked to finance
investments in rural areas. Communities and municipalities contributions are also considered in an
amount equivalent to 3%. AyA's contribution to its investment program is expected to be about
22%. Table 3 summarizes AyA's investment and financing plan for 1993-2001 and details are
presented in Annex 6, Table 6.1.
Table 3. AvA's DrVESTMENT FINANCING PLAN (1993-2001)
(US sMalOi)
Wodd Bank  pod Project)  26.0        9
MB                          51.0       17
OBCF (oa)                   12.0        4
RFW (Gamiay)                7.3         2
CABEI (CeInmi Am.tcka Buak)  23.0       a
Now Foi"p L<n               53.0       19
Cozntbdom from:
Governw-                   31.8       1 1
ComNanilisa &  Municipalities  10.0    3
CARE and OECP              13.9        5
AyA Internal Cub GOsentaon  65.5       22
1TTAL                      293.5      100



- 23 -
Proiect Implementation
3.8   The project implementation schedule for each component is shown in Annex I0. Project
preparation is well advanced. Special attention has been given in project design to the implementation
capacity of AyA and a project launch workshop, as well as the annual and mid-term reviews are
expected to facilitate the project implementation. Land acquisition needs are minor (0.6 ha.),
basically to accommodate the construction of some of the water storage tanks. Detailed designs are
available for most of the items included in the SJMA water supply and sewerage components. In
addition, technical specifications for the procurement of most of the goods included under the project
are in an advanced stage of preparation and proceeding satisfactorily.
3.9   The overall coordination and supervision of project implementation would be carried out by
the Planning Department (PD) of AyA (para. 2.4). Its responsibilities would include:
(a)    preparation of an annual detailed implementation plan and of cost schedules
for project execution;
(b)    confirmation of the availability of counterpart funding for the proposed project
and for AyA's overall investment program;
(c)    preparation of the project progress reports to be submitted to the Bank every
six months, that would be the basis for the annual reviews (para. 3.15);
(d)   identification of possible implementation gaps and ensuring that appropriate
action is taken to resolve those gaps;
(e)    coordination of the engineering, bidding, procurement and construction
activities of components C, D and E of the project with the Engineering
Department of AyA;
(f)    coordination of the implementation of the UFW program (component B) with
the Technical Committee of UFW responsible for the coordination and
monitoring of this program;
(g)    coordination of the execution of the institutional strenhening program with
the different organizational Units of AyA; and
(h)    monitoring key targets and indicators and evaluation of overal performance of
the proposed project and of AyA's performance plan (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).
On February 17, 1993, AyA's Executive President approved the organizatonal
scheme, jobs description and staffing of the PD to carry out the above mendoned responsibilities,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.4). During negotiatoi assurances were obtained that AyA would:
(i) maintain the PD with functions, structure and staffing satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) allocate
funds and other resources as required for its satisfactory operation during the project execution perid
(para. 5.2a)). As a condition of loan effectiveness AyA would appoint in its PD, a project



- 24 -
coordinator and three planners in charge of the physical planning, short-term planning and long-term
planning all with functions, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.3(b)).
3.10   The implementation of the institutional strengthening program and of the UFW program will
be executed mainly by AyA staff assisted by foreign and local consultants. The specific objectives,
actions, targets and monitoring indicators of these two programs are presented in Annexes 11 and S
respectively. For the provision of the technical assistance required by these two programs, AyA has
approached the Panamerican Health Organization (PAHO), a UN specialized agency. PAHO has
satisfactorily provided similar technical assistance to AyA in the past and there is a good working
relationship. PAHO has the advantage of having experienced professionals in water supply
management with regional experience and is able to recruit short term specialists from water utilities
that are not easily available otherwise. The proposed PAHO technical assistance program would be
similar to programs successfully provided to other water utilities and sector water agencies financed
through Bank loans in Brazil, Honduras, Ecuador and other countries. In January 1993, AyA
submitted to the Bank a final agreement with PAHO for the provision of technical assistance together
with the correspondent terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, in line with the information
provided in Annexes 5 and 11. The signature of this agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 5.3(c)). Terms of reference to analyze the private sector participation and
decentralization of AyA and to study the improvement of the institutional framework of the sector to
be developed under the mentioned agreement are presented in Annexes 19 and 20 respectively.
3.11 For the coordination and monitoring of the UFW program, AyA's Executive President has
appointed a Technical Committee of UFW (TCUFW) integrated by high level officials of the
engineering, financial, planning and commercial departments. This committee has an executive
secretariat, which will be responsible for coordinating the execution of the program with the different
organizational Units of AyA and through a management information system assess the progress in
program execution and in the reduction of the levels of the UFW. The TCUFW will meet monthly to
supervise and assess progress in program execution, and whenever required by the Secretariat to take
corrective actions. The TCUFW and its secretariat will be a permanent arrangement in AyA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that AyA would maintain such committee and its secretariat
permanently with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2(k)).
3.12   The construction of the storage and distribution water works, as well as the sewerage works
in general are expected to be executed and supervised by local contractors and consultants
respectively, since from the technological point of view Costa Rica has sufficient experience with this
type of works. However, the production works are respectively expected to be contracted with and
supervised by foreign contractors and consultants.
Monitoring and Sugervision
3.13 In February 1993, AyA submitted to the Bank its Performance Plan (1993-2001) in
accordance with the outline presented in Annex 18. This plan incorporates the agreed operational and
financial targets shown in Annex 12 and would pursue the timely implementation of the mentioned
institutional strengthening program and UFW program. Close process project monitoring and review
by the Bank would be essential given the range of institutional and policy changes planned with
project execution. During the first three years of project implementation, an allocation of 25 to 30



- 25 -
staff weeks per year are planned. Supervision would involve a sanitary engineer, a financial analyst,
an institutional development specialist and specialized consultants.
3.14   On or about September 30 of each year, starting in 1994, the Bank together with the
Borrower and public sector reform authorities would conduct formal reviews of progress made in
implementing the proposed project. Should these reviews indicate that progress toward meeting the
project objectives is unsatisfactory, the Borrower would prepare, not later than one month after said
review, and execute to the Bank's satisfaction, remedial action plans. The annual and mid-term (see
below) reviews would provide an opportunity to assess project and Borrower's performance (and
identify remedial actions) which would be measured against the progress made in achieving those
targets which constitute legally binding commitments: the agreed operational and financial targets
(Annex 12); the agreed key implementation target dates of the institutional strengthening program and
the UFW program (Annex 11 and 5); and the agreed implementation target date for the protection of
the Orosi pipeline (para. 2.9). In addition, the annual review will also assess project performance by
taking into account other targets and indicators which, though not as important as the above ones, will
provide a basis for assessing overall project and Borrower's performance (Annexes 5, 10, 11 and 13).
The annual reviews will also assess progress made in the implementation of AyA's 1993-2001 overall
investment program and funding and will evaluate project management and coordination, in
particular: (i) the performance of the PD to adequately manage technical and administrative issues to
achieve the project objectives, and (ii) technical ability and soundness of judgement in the areas of
procurement and disbursements. Special attention would be given in the annual reviews to the review
of the adequacy of AyA's water supply and sewerage charges and to the proposal and approval of
tariff adjustments (para. 2.14). After three years of project implementation (by September 30, 1996),
the Bank together with the Borrower and public sector reform authorities would conduct a mid-term
review of project execution in lieu of an annual review. In addition to covering all areas included in
the annual reviews, the mid-term review would pay particular attention to: (a) the overall progress
being made in achieving the aims of the project and of the Government's Water Supply and Sanitation
Policy Statement; (b) the progress made in implementing key actiuns related to the institutional
strengthening program and UFW program; (c) the progress made in implementing SNE's
restructuring plan; and (d) the actions concerning and time taken by SNE for approval of tariff
requests. Annex 16 presents further details on the supervision plan and the proposed agenda for the
annual and mid-term reviews. During negotiations, agreement was reached with AyA on the scope
and timing of such reviews and its commitment to the implementation, if necessary, of satisfactory
remedial actions (para. 5.20)).
3.15   During negotiations, agreement was reached that AyA would submit semi-annual progress
reports to the Bank, by February 28 and August 31 of each year for the previous semester, starting in
1994 (para. 5.2(m)). As important objectives of the project are to support Government plans to
develop and implement sound sector policies, as well as to implement the required institutional
reforms, and to improve overall efficiency and finances of AyA, the semi-annual progress reports
should review progress in these areas as well as in the implementation of all physical project
components. The PD, with the assistance of the different organizational units of AyA, would be
responsible for physical and financial monitoring of project activities; and would coordinate
preparation of all reports and consolidate the same for submission to the Bank. AyA would also be
required to present to the Bank a project completion report not later than six months after the closing
date of the loan (para. 5.2(m)).



- 26 -
Procurement
3.16   Procurement under the proposed project will be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods and Works (May 1992) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981). AyA's management has the capabilities to handle adequately the procurement
processes required for this project. During negotiations agreement was reached with AyA that all
procurement of goods and civil works, whether subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) or
to locally advertised competitive bidding (LCB), shall be done using standardized bidding documents
agreed upon with the Bank (para. 5.2(n)). As a condidon of loan effecdlv      , these standardized
bidding documents would have been completed, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.3(d)). To the extent
practicable, the procurement of goods and works would be done by grouping the various
equipment/materials items in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 and
US$1,000,000 or more per package, respectively, so as to encourage greater supplier interest.
3.17   A breakdown of project costs and loan amounts by procurement method is shown in Table 4.
Table 4. PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT MEM=O1
(in US S Million)
i  -,  -  : <> ;.:i.: . . t -' ' :. ' ~ w     -
1. Ciy Wor
UFW Progmm                    -         1.4         -          1.4
(0.5)                 (0.5)
Water                        1.1        3.7         -          4.8
(0.3)      (1.1)                  (1-4)
Seweage                                 1.2         -           1.2
(0-4)                  (0.4)
Sub-Total                    1.1        6.3         -7.4
________________________  (0.3)      (2.0)     _            (2.3)
2.  1 3                                                        _
Insiutional
Strengthening Progam          1.5                               1.5
(1.1)                            (1.1)
UFW Program                   9.5        -         3.5         13.0
(6.2)                (2.3)       (8.5)
Waer                          1.8       6.7                     8.5
(1.2)     (4.3)                  (5.5)
Scweae                        0.5       2.4         -           2.9
(0.4)    (1.5)         _         (1.9)
Sub-Total                    13.3       9.1        3.5         25.9
(8.9)     (5.8)      (2.3)      (17.0)
3. Con ul h.
and..Iuiaing                            1.4        5.3         6.7
(1.4)      (5.3)      (6.7)
TOTAL                        14.4       16.8       8.8         40.0
_______ _  (9.2)     (9.2)       (7.6)      (26.0)
NOTEI: In paunthesis, amounts to be finnced by the Bank.



- 27 -
3.18   Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a)   bid packages or contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost more than
US$250,000 equivalent each, and contracts for civil works estimated to cost
more than US$1,000,000 equivalent each, would be procured following ICB
procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In procurement of
goods through ICB, domestic and regional manufacturers members of the
Central American Common Market (CACM) would be granted a margin of
preference of up to 15% or the amount of custom duties and import taxes,
whichever is smaller, in accordance with Bank's procedures;
(b)   although it is not foreseen at present, the procurement of equipment/materials
below US$250,000 may eventually be procured through LCB procedures
subject to Bank's prior approval, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,000,000
equivalent; and
(c)   civil works of US$1,000,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of
US$2,000,000 equivalent would be awarded through local competitive bidding
procedures and foreign bidders would be given an equal opportunity to
compete.
Special procurement provisions are being included according with the findings of the recent
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) of Costa Rica. During negotatlons, agreement
was reached on the following special provisions regarding international competitive bidding and local
competitive bidding procedures (para. 5.2(o)):
For ICB:
(a)   in respect of the procurement of works, bids shall not be rejected on the
grounds that they fall outside a pre-determined bracket; and
(b)   in respect of the procurement of works and goods, foreign bidders will be
permitted to submit bid securities from foreign sureties without the
requirement of endorsement by local banks or by the Instituto Nacional de
For ICB and LCB:
(a)   for contracts of civil works or for the procurement of goods, suitable
mechanisms, acceptable to the Bank, shall be allowed providing for price
adjustment formulae to reflect increased costs.
3.19   All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more, and all
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more, which overall
represent about 65% of all Bank-financed goods and civil works, would be subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Procurement information will be collected and recorded in the progress reports to be presented to the
Bank every semester (para. 3.15).



- 28 -
Disbursements
3.20   The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the
allocation by categories shown in Annex 1 over a period of 6 years which is somewhat faster than
the disbursement profile for water sector projects in Latin America (7 years), but is considered
reasonable since there are no major works considered in the project. The disbursement period was
determined after taking into account the status of project designs, AyA's execution capacity and the
limitations placed on project finances by AyA's cash generation capacity. The proposed loan will be
disbursed against various expenditures categories in the following percentages:
(a)    Expenditures for civil works: 30%;
(b)    Expenditures for equipment and materials: 65%; and
(c)    Expenditures for consultant services (including supervision of works),
technical assistance and training: 100%.
3.21   Out of the proposed loan up to USS 0.3 million (1% of the total loan) is recommended for
retroactive financing of technical assistance expenditures under components A and B of the project.
All retroactive financing would be in accordance with Bank guidelines and for expenditures incurred
after September 30. 1992 and within a period of 12 months prior to the expected date of loan signing.
3.22   For civil works contracts valued at less than US$ 1,000,000 equivalent and for goods and
services valued at less than USS 250,000 equivalent, disbursements would be made against statement
of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank,
but would be retained by AyA for periodic inspection by Bank staff and for audit purposes. All other
disbursements would be made against full documentation. To expedite disbursements, a Special
Account will be opened in a banking institution acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of up
to US$1.4 million to cover four months of average disbursements. The closing date for
disbursements will be June 30, 2000, i.e. six months after the estimated completion of project
execution (December 31, 1999). The detailed disbursement schedule is shown in Annex I.
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Project Justification and Benefits
4.1    The economic justification for this project is based, primarily, on its contribution to achieve a
framework of sound sector policies and institutional arrangements to enhance its sustainability. In
addition, the project will help in building up an institutionally sound and financially sustainable water
supply and sewerage organization capable of operating efficiently and meeting growing service
demands. Costs per unit of production would be reduced by: (i) increasing staff productivity and
other personnel actions; (ii) optimizing the use of production capacity through improved control of
flow and better use of storage capacity; and (iii) reducing water losses (reduction of physical losses



- 29 -
will reduce production costs and postpone the need for new investments in water production, and
reduction of commercial losses will encourage demand pattern changes to better reflect the economic
costs of supply). In addition to these economic benefits, the project will result in a tariff structure
more in line with incremental costs than the current tariffs and in a large number of additional
connections (mostly from existing capacity and the modest additional capacity provided by the
project). Furthermore, the project will help prevent future disruption of supply by reducing the risks
of damage to the Orosi pipeline, and, thereby, the need for costly standby and other emergency
arrangements. The sewerage investments under the project will result in environmental and health
benefits and will have a positive impact on low-income segments of the San Jose population, largely
by improving environmental conditions in these areas (para. 4.6). Finally, in addition to direct
economic benefits, the financial improvements arising from sounder tariffs and better collection will
reduce the need for Government funding at a time when the Government is strapped for funds.
4.2    Although it is customary in water and sewerage projects to calculate an internal rate of return
based on increased revenues, no such calculation has been made since the project's expected
regulatory and institutional achievements cannot be valued precisely. If successful, this project will
provide the basis for rationalizing not only the future operation of AyA; but the scale and timing of
future investments in water and sanitation service in the service area and beyond. The magnitude of
the benefits which will be realized depends, in considerable part, on non-physical aspects of the
project-adherence to the program for reduction of unaccounted for water and increased staff
productivity. As has been widely recognized, the key incentives for such improvement depend, in
turn, of the government's continuing commitment to reform the public sector and create an
appropriate regulatory framework for public utilities. This project provides a needed stimulus for
achieving these outcomes.
Environmental Impact
4.3    The Engineering Department in AyA has prepared an environmental impact assessment for the
proposed project (Category B), where its main negative and positive consequences are analyzed and
remedial measures are established to mitigate the possible negative ones. AyA has the capability to
carry out environmental assessments as the one developed for this project and relies on extenal
consultants when major environmental assessments should be carried out. Such is the case of the
study to be initiated with IDB/OECD funds for the improvement and expansion of the sewerage
facilities of the SJMA. A summary of the environmental assessment is presented in Annex 21.
4.4    All the projected works are situated in areas of urban or pasture uses. Construction of the
water and sewerage works proposed under the project do not entail the displacement of occupants of
land nor will they affect any known archeological deposit or valuable natural resource. Mitigation
measures have been established for the control of the possible minor disturbances caused during
construction. The actions required both at the design and construction phases, to ease any
environmental impacts during the construction of the works are simple to put in effect and can be
easily added to plans, specifications and construction procedures. Each work will have its own
construction plan which will minimize the possible negative impacts.
4.5    A detailed operation and maintenance plan for the sewerage system in the SJMA has been
prepared to be implemented as part of the project. It will allow for the organization and furnishing of
AyA's Sewerage Division with the necessary equipment to improve its efficiency and effectiveness to



- 30 -
solve problems. The definition and execution of the preventive, corrective and restoring maintenance
programs will permit the extension of the life span of pipelines, structures, installations and
equipment and the reduction of the magnitude and frequency of the negative impacts, caused by
system failures, on the water receiving bodies.
4.6    Environmental and social benefits will be achieved with the project by improving the quality
of the water service in the SJMA, which will benefit the urban poor who suffer most from the present
deficiencies, without increasing significantly the production of water. In addition, the sewerage
works proposed under the project will alleviate the pollution of rivers and streams that run through
the SJMA and will improve the enviromnental conditions of low-income areas. The projected works
in the water and sewerage systems are integrated within the PLAMAGAM and future works to
improve sewerage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are expected to be defined and
implemented once the feasibility studies and engineering designs are completed (para. 1.7).
Risks and Safeguards
4.7    The main risks lie outside the project itself and are linked to possible slippage in the
government's commitment to reform the public sector and to implement a sounder regulatory
framework for public utilities, allowing and promoting expanded private sector participation,
particularly when a change in Administration takes place. To reduce this risk, significant actions
(relating to sector organization and tariffs) were sought before appraisal and Board presentation. To
address the risk of future slippage in sector reforms, annual and mid-term reviews of project
implementation would be undertaken together with the responsible authorities (para. 3.14) and in case
the Govermnent is delayed in the implementation of the revised regulatory framework (para. 1.14),
the Bank together with Government, during the annual and mid-term project reviews, would be able
to assess AyA's performance as measured by the operational and financial targets shown in Annex 2
and press for corrective actions if necessary. It would be an event of default if by December 31,
1994, the Government has not enacted legislation, adopting a comprehensive regulatory framework
for public services in Costa Rica and the regulations related to such legislation and an action plan to
restructure SNE in accordance with its new functions (para. 5.4(b)). In addition, if by the time of
any of the following annual reviews (para. 3.14) SNE's restructuring plan has failed to be
implemented in accordance with its terms and timetable, it would be regarded as an event of default
(para. 5.4 (c)). Specific project-related risks arise from AyA's institutional weaknesses, which this
project tries to address. To minimize this risk, AyA has agreed on the operational and financial
targets to be achieved under its performance plan (para. 3.13). Lastly, there is also a risk that
financial pressure to carry out significant reforms may be undermined by the availability of credit
from bilateral or international agencies that may not focus on the need to resolve sector issues. To
address this and since MIB is one of the major financial actors in the sector (para. 1.22), the Bank is
maintaining a close dialogue with the IDB to coordinate positions on sectoral policies and issues.



- 31 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations, the following were confirmed or agreed upon with Government and
AyA:
(a)    Sectoral goals and policy objectives as outlined in the Policy Statement (para. 1.18);
(b)   The terms of reference of the study of investment and cost recovery policies and the
Government's commitment to complete it by December 31, 1994 and a satisfactory
follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1995 and
implemented thereafter (para. 1.18);
(c)    The terms of reference of the study of the institutional framework for the GAM and
the Government's commitment to complete it by June 30, 1994 and that a satisfactory
follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1994 and
implemented thereafter (para. 1.18); and
(d)    The terms of reference of the study for the institutional framework for the sector and
the Govermnent's commitment to complete it by December 31, 1994 and that a
satisfactory follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1995
and implemented thereafter (para. 1.18).
5.2    During negotiations the following were confirmed or agreed upon with AyA:
(a)    AyA would maintain at all times, senior managers whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.2);
(b)    The decentralization model including areas or functions to be contracted with the
private sector would: (i) be completed by June 30, 1994 and a satisfactory follow-up
action plan will be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1994 and implemented
thereafter; and (ii) 100% subcontracting with the private sector in all areas identified
in the decentralization model would be implemented by June 30, 1996 (para. 2.3);
(c)    A vulnerability study of the Orosi pipeline to natural hazards will be completed by
December 31, 1994, and a satisfactory follow-up action plan detailing the
organizational and engineering measures to protect the pipeline would be submitted to
the Bank by June 30, 1995 and would be implemented thereafter (para. 2.9);
(d)    The design of the commercial system would be completed no later than June 30,
1994, and a satisfactory follow-up action plan would be submitted to the Bank by
September 30, 1994 and would be implemented thereafter (para. 2.10);
(e)    The operational and financial targets that have been incorporated in AyA's
Performance Plan and are presented in Annex 12 would be achieved (paras. 2.21 and
3.13);



- 32 -
(f)    The design of the accounting system would be completed no later than June 30, 1994,
and a satisfactory implementation action plan would be submitted to the Bank by
September 30, 1994 and would be implemented thereafter (para. 2.22);
(g)    AyA would use qualified private independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
make the audit reports (financial statements, project accounts, SOEs, Special Account
and Management Letter) available to the Bank by June 30 of each year (para. 2.23);
(h)    The following would be submitted, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than September
30 of each year: (i) AyA's financial projections for the following six year period;
(ii) AyA's six-year investment plan with specific details for the upcoming year; and
(iii) the project's investment plan with specific details for the upcoming year (para.
3.6);
(i)    No new major investment in excess of USS 500,000 equivalent would be approved or
committed without providing evidence to the Bank that the investment in question
would have no adverse effect on AyA's agreed operational and financial performance
(para. 3.6);
(j)    The Planning Department would be maintained with functions, structure and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank and AyA will allocate funds and other resources as required
for its adequate operation during the project execution period (para. 3.9);
(k)    The TCUFW and its secretariat would be maintained permanently with functions and
staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(1)    The Bank together with AyA and public sector reform authorities would: (i) carry out
an annual review, on or about September 30 of each year, beginning in 1994, to be
expanded to a mid-term review, held by September 30, 1996, of the progress made in
achieving the project objectives and, if necessary, prepare and execute to the
satisfaction of the Bank, remedial actions agreed during the annual and mid-term
reviews (para. 3.14); and (ii) as a consequence of these reviews and if the Bank shall
so recommend, AyA would prepare, within a framework of time acceptable to the
Bank, a proposal for tariff adjustments to be submitted to SNE (para. 2.14);
(m)   AyA would submit to the Bank: (i) semi-annual progress reports by February 28 and
August 31 of each year for the previous semester, starting in 1994; and (ii) a project
completion report not later than six months after the closing date of the loan (para.
3.15);
(n)    All procurement of goods and civil works, whether subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) or to locally advertised competitive bidding (LCB), shall be
done using standardized bidding documents agreed upon with the Bank (para. 3.16);
and
(o)    Special provisions regarding ICB and LCB procedures (para. 3.18).



- 33 -
5.3    Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    Satisfactory implementation of AyA's water tariff program of monthly increases (para.
2.14);
(b)    A project coordinator and three planners in charge of the physical planning, short-
term planning and long-term planning, all with functions, qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank should have been appointed in the Planning
Department (para. 3.9);
(c)    The agreement with PAHO for the provision of technical assistance should have been
signed (para. 3.10); and
(d)    AyA's standardized bidding documents would have been completed, satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.16).
5.4   Events of Default:
(a)    SNE or any other authority having jurisdiction has not reviewed and granted approval,
within 75 days of their respective publication in the official gazzette, to the tariff
requests made by AyA to comply with its financial targets (para. 2.14);
(b)    The Bank has not received by December 31, 1994: (i) evidence showing that the
Government has enacted legislation, adopting a comprehensive regulatory framework
for public services in Costa Rica and the regulations related to such legislation; and
(ii) an action plan to restructure SNE in accordance with its new functions (para. 4.7);
and
(c)    SNE's restructuring plan has not been implemented in accordance with its terms and
timetable (para. 4.7).
5.5    With the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$26 million
equivalent to AyA. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at
the standard variable interest rate. The loan would be guaranteed by the Republic of Costa Rica.



I



-34 -                                 ANNEX I
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SllPL  AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SECTOR INVESTMENTS 1981-1990
(Current USS millions)
Investments during the last decade (1981-1990) were on average US$ 13 million per year, in current
dollars.
lIvestments 1981-1990:
___________            ~~~(Current: US$ mIllons):
Total   TAverage                                    I on
U- T% Toal  Per oYer T SCapnip  (1) j             (Percent)
Metropolitan Area   60.4       45          6.0           8.1      91            9
Other Urban Areas    53.0      40          5.3          10.9      89           11
Rural Areas          19.6      15          2.0           1.4      100           0
Totals      [133.0  J  100          13.3           5.1       94           6
-     . =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(1) Based on total population.
SECTOR INVESTMENTS DISTRIBUTION BY AREAS
METROPOLITAN AREA
(45%)
RURAL AREAS
(1 5%)
OTHER URBAN AREAS
(40%)



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LESSONS LEARNED. FROM THE PAST PROJECTS AND PROJECT DESIGN
INTRODUCTION
1.    This Annex reviews the main lessons learned from a total of 21 operations, 12 of them
selected from 87 Bank-wide water and sewerage PCRs and 9 from other infrastructure sector
operations that could have lessons applicable to the water and sanitation sector. In addition, 3 water
sector reports from OED, INUWS and LATIE were reviewed. The relevant projects are summarized
in Table 1.
LESSONS FROM THE PROJECTS
2.    Most of the lessons derived from the analyzed reports can be summarized under the following
subjects:
Country Conditions
3.    Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions or changes in the political environment have a
significant impact on project costs, implementation and in the achievement of objectives. Project
objectives can also be adversely affected by changes in government, foreseeable in the political
calendar. Major changes in country conditions are, of course, difficult to predict at the time of
project preparation but nevertheless they can occur and often lead to a revision of institutional
priorities which in turn affect project objectives.
4.    The worsening of the economic situation in Brazil, Bolivia and Costa Rica were factors that
adversely affected, at least temporarily, Loans 1850-BR, 1939-BR, 948-BO and 1935-CR. The
Central Governments periodic economic and political priorities were the sole determinants of
permissible tariff increases, irrespective of the financial situation and investment program of the
utility, such was the case in loans 1939-BR, 1850-BR, 948-BO, 1935-CR, 741/1997-CO and
1351-CH. Counterpart funds were often delayed, such as in the case of Loans 1187-CR and
1845-CR.
Management Changes/Implementation Schedules
5.    Frequent management changes was a recurrent and undesirable feature of loans 1845-CR,
1935-CR, 1776-EC and 1939-BR. In the case of the latter, lack of managerial continuity due to
political changes generated discontinuity and affected the project planning. In the case of Loan
1935-CR, some doubt was expressed in the PCR, that the project as implemented was fully
sustainable. This as the result of the inability to implement the desired institutional changes that were
explicit in the project, and it is attributed, to a large extent, to frequent changes in top management
positions. The financial situation of the water agency is still of concern as objectives related to cost
recovery, efficiency gains and staff productivity have not been achieved.
_~~                             ~  ~~ ~ - - - -   -_-- - -- - - - - - - - - -



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
6.    Project 1615-PH, on the other hand, is a positive experience of a utility that is more
competent, due to its competent higher and middle management and professional staff that have been
retained even though changes have occurred at top positions.
7.    Delays for obtaining congressional approval have been a recurrent factor for almost all the
loans to Costa Rica, thus affecting loan effectiveness and project start-up. Such was the case of loans
2019-CR (15 months), 1410-CR (9 months) and 1935-CR (over a year). In the case of the latter, the
delay for effectiveness was due to the non fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness of the cofinancing
agency (CDC) and the non-compliance of the water agency of covenanted financial provisions.
8.    In most of the projects there have been delays in project execution due to different type of
problems in procurement (Loans 1187-CR, 1724-MOR, 1041-CE, 741/1997-CO and 1935-CR).
Project execution of loan 1935-CR was estimated to be 3 years and the actual execution period was
almost 7 years. The initial timing was too optimistic, taking into account the complexity of the
project, the financial weakness of the water agency and the lack of experience of the borrower with a
relatively large project and with Bank operations.
Physical and Institutional Objectives
9.    Inadequate linkages between physical and institutional objectives help explain some of the
shortcomings in reaching the main objectives, particularly in the institutional front. A sound
connection between physical and institutional objectives can also prevent a meaningful reformulation
of project components in response to a change in priorities.
10.   In Loan 1935-CR, institutional goals were too ambitious and lacked a sense of priority for an
agency with a poor operational and financial performance record. Efforts to improve efficiency
(reduce unaccounted-for-water, UFW) were not well defined and not linked to the physical objectives
of the project, and not surprisingly, UFW was not reduced. Even though in most water and
sanitation PCRs reviewed, there is a widespread acceptance to reduce the UFW, results achieved
demonstrate that proper design and implementation efforts are needed to be effective in the reduction
of the UFW levels.
Simplicity of Design
11.   Project complexity is closely related to implementation capacity and to the number of
components and participating agencies. New agencies, unfamiliar with Bank bidding and
disbursement procedures or with relatively large investment program experience initial and significant
delays in starting the project; such was the case of project 1935-CR. The analysis of the
implementation capacity of executing agencies did not seem to have received adequate attention at
appraisal in projects 1845-CR, 1935-CR, 1776-EC and 1495/1496/1983-NI. Cumbersome internal
controls and procedures affecting all phases of project implementation and bidding decisions proved to
be a formidable obstacle in the case of project 1935-CR. Provisions have been made in the design of
the proposed project to minimize the effects of the previous mentioned issues.
12.   In project 741/1997-CO project complexity is also cited as a key factor in the delay of project
execution. Project complexity can easily overburden not only the implementation capacity of local



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
agencies but project preparation and supervision capacity of the Bank as has been pointed out by
INUWS.
Cost Recovery and Cash Generation
13.   Most projects reported problems with cost recovery and with timely provision of counterpart
funds. These problems directly affect the cash flow situation of implementing agencies and therefore
project execution and costs. Inadequate or untimely tariff increases affect both cost recovery and cash
generation (1351-CH, 1939-BR, 948-BO, 741/1997-CO, 2222-PA and 1935-CR).
14.   'Pricing of services tends to be viewed primarily as a mechanism to achieve reasonable
financial projections, while insufficiently emphasizing its relationship to demand estimation, to the
size and timing of supply expansions, to the willingness to pay of beneficiaries, and its instrumental
role in providing incentives for improved operational performance", as has been pointed out by
INUWS.
15.   Special attention should be placed in the selection of the financial covenants. When a utility
has been incurring operating losses for a period of time and when there is not a formal methodology
in the country or agency for fixed assets revaluation, the selection of the financial rate of return on
revalued assets as the financial covenant does not seem to be appropriate. (Loan 1935-CR).
16.   On the positive side the Bank is credited by the implementing agency (Loan 1935-CR) of
using very effectively the threat of suspension and of not extension of the closing date to obtain
needed tariff increases from a reluctant central government and agency.
Demand/Production Forecasts
17.   Failure to forecast demand, within reasonable limits, is a recurrent problem of most water
supply and sewerage projects as documented by almost all the PCRs, LATIE, OED and INUWS. A
too optimistic view on the forecasted increase of water demand has even produced modifications of
the proposed project facilities generating delays in project execution, as in the case of Loan
1724-MOR. The increase in the number of connections and the unit consumption per connection
(cubic meters per connection per month) were over estimated in projects 1577-IVC, 741/1997-CO and
1935-CR. Failure to recognize the elasticity of demand, as well as the full impact on aggregate
demand of lower than average demand of low income groups, when service coverage is being
increased, seem to have been the main factors in the mentioned projects.
18.   Almost all the PCRs reviewed had goals to reduce high levels of water losses (unaccounted
for water, UFW). In general, it is reported that little improvement has been made (Loans 1939-BR,
741/1997-CO, 1495/1496/1983-NI, 1615-PH, 2222-PA and 1935-CR). UFW reduction programs
focused, for the most reported, lie mostly with deficiencies in the commercial system, i.e. they are
institutional. Illegal connections and failure to meter all consumption and repair meters are among
the most important factors that contribute to high levels of commercial losses.
19.   The lack of reliable information on production and consumption patterns clouds the analysis
of the UFW problem and the formulation of effective plans to reduce it. Nevertheless, a more



- 38 -
ANNEX2
Page 4 of 6
focused attention is needed to evaluate the capacity and reliability of commercial systems to account
for all users and consumption and the effectiveness of maintenance programs, as stated by LATIE.
20.   Productivity gains in the work force as a mean to control operating costs was an important
objective in projects 2222-PA and 1935-CR. Progress was not achieved in these projects, although
measures have been taken to suspend the hiring of new personnel (Loan 1935-CR). A stable
management group, a competitive salary structure, and the judicious use of the private sector in
operations are the main factors that have contributed to make the productivity gain a reality and a
sustainable one since then.
21.   High demand projections translate into over-designed physical components, optimistic
assessment of revenues and economic benefits from new facilities and corresponding financial
problems which in turn adversely affect project implementation. High levels of UFW are
symptomatic of inadequate responses to maintain physical facilities and commercial systems with a
direct bearing on higher operating costs and lesser revenues. Project components to increase
production capacity without a meaningful attempt to reduce high levels of UFW lower the pressure to
find long lasting solutions to this problem.
SPECIFIC LESSONS INCORPORATED IN THE DESIGN OF THE II WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT
22.   In designing the proposed second water and sewerage project for Costa Rica, attempts have
been made to recognize the findings set out in this Annex. Clearly, some problems cannot be
completely safeguarded against, such as changes in the political environment. Nevertheless, the main
features that respond to the type of problems described in the previous paragraphs are as follows:
23.   Physical ad institutional Obiectives. A sound connection between physical and institutional
objectives is being proposed in the II Water and Sewerage Project for Costa Rica. The overall
objective of the proposed project will be to improve AyA's operational efficiency, in order for the
agency to achieve financial self-sufficiency and thus sustainability. This improvement in efficiency
would be achieved through the implementation of an unaccounted-for-water program and an
institutional strengthening program, together with the construction of works and equipment needed for
the rehabilitation or improvement of the water and sewerage facilities in the San Jose Metropolitan
Area (SJMA). The sector overview carried out by the Bank as part of project preparation has been
instrumental for project design.
24. Demand/Production Forecasts. Special attention was given to demand calculations for the
SJMA. Information available on consumption patterns and production have been carefully analyzed
for the design of the water facilities to be included in the proposed project. This information has also
been the basis for the formulation of the unaccounted-for-water program, and since the commercial
losses account for 55% of total losses, the program is assigning priority to the actions or projects in
the commercial system. The program clearly defines the projects or actions to be carried out, targets
to be achieved, costs and resources required per project or action. The analysis of AyA's
implementation capacity for this program received special attention, because of its effects in the
overall implementation schedule of the project. Productivity gain targets will also be established in
the project, and an institutional strengthening component has been prepared to help achieve them.
Considering that success in this type of component can only be achieved with high levels of



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
participation and commitment of local counterparts, a special effort was placed in the design of this
component.
25.    Cost Recovery and Cash Generation. Since the financial situation of AyA is poor and the
financial resources of the central government for the financing of sector investments tend to ebb,
special emphasis has been placed in the analysis of the financial targets to be considered in the
proposed project. Tariff increases, during 1992 and 1993, to cover the financial gap and price water
at its average incremental cost have been recently approved by SNE. The institutional strengthening
program also includes specific projects for the improvement of AyA's financial management.
Table 1. RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW
DOCUMENTS INCLUDED IN THE LITERATURE SEARCH
IActual Loan  IDate of PCR
!       i   X   tProject/Report ;    D;  fLoan Nuber    Closing Date  or Report
I. Infrastructure Bank's Projects - Costa Rica (7):
Fourth Highway                                  1187-CR        June 1984        April 1986
Fifth Highway                                  1845-CR       December 1986       May 1990
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance          2019-CR       December 1987      June 1990
Agricultural Credit and Development             1410-CR      December 1984   December 1985
San Jose Metropolitan Area Water Supply        1935-CR         June 1988        May 1990
Fourth Telecommunications                       1006-CR         June 1981       March 1983
Sixth Power                                    1713-CR         June 1985      December 1987
II. Infrastructure Bank Projects - Other Countries (3):
Chile. Sixth Power Sector                      1351-CH          June 1981       March 1985
Ecuador. Guayaquil Urban Development            1776-EC         June 1987      January 1990
El Salvador. Urban I and II                  1050/1465-ES    December 1984      March 1987
III. Water Supply and Sewerage Bank Projects (11):
Cote d'Ivoire. Second Abidjan Sewerage and     1577-IVC      December 1985      August 1986
Drainage
Sri Lanka. Second Water Supply and Sewerage     1041-CE        March 1987        May 1988
Philippines. Second Manila Water Supply         1615-PH      December 1978      March 1988
Philippines. Manila Sewerage and Sanitation     1814-PH      December 1988      June 1990



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
-  I  Actual Loan       Date of PCR
Project/Report               - Loan Number    Closing Date -         or Report
Morocco. Second Water Supply                     1724-MOR       December 1987    October 1989
Bolivia. Santa Cruz Water Supply and Sewerage     948-BO          June 1986         June 1990
Brazil. Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and      1309-BR       September 1982      April 1985
Sewerage
Brazil. Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and       1850-BR       December 1987    February 1990
Sewerage
Colombia. Second Bogota Water Supply              741-CO          June 1985         May 1988
Nicaragua. Managua Water Supply Engineering       1983-NI          June 1985      November 1988
and Water Supply III                              1496-NI       December 1983   November 1988
Panama. Second Water Supply and Sewerage          2222-PA          June 1989        June 1991
IV. Water Sector - Other Bank Reports (3)
Water Supply and Waste Disposal Sector                                             February 1990
Annual Review. Project Performance Results
1988. O.E.D.
Water Supply and Sanitation.                                                       December 190
FY90 Sector Review. INUWS.
Review of Urban/Water PCRs CY90, IATIE                                               May 1991



COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA)
Organizational Structure
I    OF I7ChOIi
I~~1a~~mmMi                     P£OFi~~~~~O Ia,PORA
m
x
CAW   -"   -C    CA AIM
CLM[ CM                                                       [k1[    aAaAr7
rOiM                  ,                            _      _               



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Analysis of AyA's Tariff Structure
1.   AyA's tariff structure provides for four consumer categories (residential, commercial, industrial
and concessional), five narrow consumption blocks rates for the first 60 m3 of water consumed
monthly and a basic flat rate for the first 15 m3 consumed. The rationale for classifying commercial
and industrial businesses is based on the perceived profits these can obtain from the use of water.
Government and charitable institutions (churches, asylums, etc.) are classified as concessional users.
2.   Separate tariff schedules are maintained for the SJMA, other urban centers and rural areas.
Outside San Jose, urban and rural rates are 90 and 70 percent of the SJMA rates. In March 1992,
SNE approved an increase in water tariffs for AyA's operated systems of an estimated 20 and 17% in
real terms for 1992 and 1993 respectively. The new rates include a one time average increase of 18%
(effective in April 1992), followed by 12 consecutive accumulative monthly average increases of
3.5%. The average water rate for AyA's operated systems expected for July 1993 would be
equivalent to about US$ 0.35/m3, and the average water tariff for the SJMA to about US$ 0.45/m3.
In the SJMA, the average rate for residential and concessional consumers is about 76% of the overall
average rate, while average commercial and industrial rates are 179% and 182% of the overall
average rate, respectively.
3.   The results of the application of the actual structure can only be analyzed for the SJMA, since
monthly billing statistics for AyA's operated water systems are not routinely produced. This analysis
is based on the information of water billing for the SJMA for November 1991. The average water
tariff versus consumption is shown in Figure 1.
4.   The residential rates are progressive in nature up to a consumption of 60 m3/month. The
lowest residential consumption block, represents 36% of SJMA' metered domestic users and accounts
for around 14 to 18% of all metered water and 19% of all revenues. The three lowest residential
categories (up to 40 m3/month) account for 90% of domestic customers, 68 to 72% of consumption
and 70% of revenues. Consumption blocks for commercial, industrial and concessional users are the
same as for residential users, but rates are flat for all levels of consumption. Given the high basic
charge the average cost per cubic meter decreases with consumption. It follows that consumers with
the basic fixed charge are subsidizing the higher consumers (Figures 1 and 2).
5.   Approximately 96% of the metered consumers have a rate lower than the average water rate.
These consumers are mainly residential and concessional. Residential or domestic consumers were
93% of total, used 73% of the water sold and paid 58% of SJMA's revenues. Commercial consumers
were 5% of total, used 6% of the water and provided 10% of the revenues. Industrial consumers are
very few representing about 1 % of the total, but use 15% of the water and provide 28 % of the
revenues. Concessional consumers are also very few (1%), use 6% of the water and provide 4% of
the revenues. This situation can be summarized as follows:



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Metered Consumption
(In %)
Categories       '-No. Users   J   Consumption          Billing:X
Residential                   91                71               55
Commercial                     6                 8               13
Industrial                     2                 15              27
Concessional                   1                 6                5
| Total          T100 ioIoo  L=lJ
6.   The total distribution of consumption and revenues is shown in Figure 3. It is shown that
consumption in SJMA follows similar patterns found elsewhere; almost 70% of the consumers use
approximately 30% of the water consumption; conversely, 45% of the water is used by only 10% of
the users. Because of the progressive tariff, 90% of the consumers account for 47% of the total
billing, while 10% of the consumers account for 53% of the billing.
7.   Metered connections representing 89% of SJMA connections, yielded an average rate in
November 1991 of US$ 0.32/m3 or US$ 9.10/connection/month, while non-metered consumers
generated an average revenue of US$ 7.3/connection/month, even though by experience non-metered
users consume at least 40% more than metered ones. The comparison between charges of metered and
unmetered connections per category is shown below:
Average Monthly Billing (m3/Connection)
R|d;al        I    OO. .Mted.                         Unmteredi
Categories      Colones                         olones         US$
Residential           739              5.6          833             6.3
Commercial           2477             18.6         2640            19.9
Industrial          16629            125.1         3276            24.6
Concessional         7162             53.9         1545            11.6
Average              1216              9.1          972    [        7.3
8.   As shown, flat rates established for non-metered users in all categories do not take into account
their higher consumption, especially in the industrial and concessional categories. Under the proposed



- 44 -
ANNEX4
Page 3 of 5
institutional strengthening component, technical assistance has been included to study AyA's tariff
structure and propose the necessary adjustments to eliminate the mentioned drawbacks.
9.    Sewerage charges, levied on those houses that have sewerage connections, are 18 percent of the
water charges, which are low even when compared to similar services in other countries in the
region. Under the proposed institutional strengthening component, technical assistance has also been
included to study the sewerage charges that should be implemented in the SIMA and in other urban
areas.
AVERAGE WATER RATES
(SJMA)
Coloneslm3
100
80             ;. .......................................................................................................................... ................................ .............
s \  ... .......*..........
80    -1                                   1                   1
0                  50                 100                  150                200
Consumption m3/month/connec
-     Actual Rate                            Average Rate
*   AIC Water + Sewerage                o   AIC Water
NMOVEKR 1991                                nM .
Figure 1



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
AVERAGE WATER RATE
Average Rant. Colon-e-ma
I 60
140.....
120._
1 00   
100
s o  ., .....                    .......................................
40
20 _ -=
0         L
0       20      40        o0     eo       100      120
Consumptlon m3S/month
- teldntlu *l  Induetriol  -- Averre. Rals
NOVEMBER t1l                                        PMo. a
Figure 2
CONSUMPTION AND REVENUES
(SJMA)
Peront of Total
ao -          -1         -.--
0    20   40 00    so   IN   120
Percent of Connectlons
-Conamptlon       Rtwnur
NOVEMBER t99¶                    FG. 3
Figure 3



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AvA's WATER TARIFFS AS OF APRIL 1. 1992 (2)
(In Colones)
Range/Category               DOM (3)                 COM (4)                  IND (5)               CONC. (6)
M_________________                    Metropolitan Area
0 - 15 (Basic)                 854.00                 3,051.00                3,455.00                1,977.00
16 - 25                        35.19                   76.79                   89.94                   37.54
26 - 40                        36.05                   76.79                   89.94                   37.54
41 - 60                        59.09                   76.79                   89.94                   37.54
>   60                         78.20                   76.79                   89.94                   37.54
Unmetered Users                955.75                  3,108.27                3,747.45                1,477.07
(CfMonth)
Urban Area
0  15 (Basic)                  768.60                 2,745.90                3,109.50                1,779.30
16 - 25                        31.67                   69.11                   80.95                   33.79
26 - 40                        32.45                   69.11                   80.95                   33.79
41 - 60                        53.18                   69.11                   80.95                   33.79
>   60                         70.38                   69.11                   80.95                   33.79
Unmetered Users               860.18                  2,797.44                3,372.71                1,329.36
(C/Month)                                         ____I
Rural Area
0 - 15 (Basic)                 597.80                 2,135.70                2,418.50                1,383.90
16 - 25                        24.63                   53.75                   62.96                   26.28
26 - 40                        25.24                   53.75                   62.96                   26.28
41 - 60                        41.36                   53.75                   62.96                   26.28
>   60                         54.74                   53.75                   62.96                   26.28
Unmetered Users               669.03                  2,175.79                2,623.22                1,033.95
(C/Month)                                                                                                             l
Sewerage rates             (1)                      (1)                     (1)                     (')
NOTES:         (1)     18% of water billed.
(2)    Monthly increases of 3.5 percent have been approved until July 1993.
(3)    Domestic Users.
(4)    Industrial or commercial users that do not profit from the use of water.
(5)    Industrial or commercial users that profit from the use of water.
(6)    Government and charitable institutions (churches, schools, asylums, etc).



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
COSIA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AyA's Unaccounted-for-Water Program (UFW)
Background
1.1  The main causes of the UFW in AyA's operated systems have been identified and they are
presented in Table 5.1. Since commercial losses represent 55 percent of total losses, priority is being
given in project implementation to actions that will solve these problems. In 1990, AyA initiated
project implementation by carrying out a new census of the SJMA' users and adjusting its billing
process. As a result UFW was reduced by some 9 percentage points between 1989 and 1990 and
monthly billings increased by 20 percent. However, to continue with project implementation, AyA is
seeking financing of technical assistance, equipment and training, mainly to solve its problems in the
following areas: metering; billing and collection; consumer and pipes cadastres; and operational
control of the SJMA water system.
Obiectives
1.2  The main objectives of the UFW program are: (i) to capture the lost revenues from the
commercial losses; (ii) to reduce AyA's physical losses; and (iii) to optimize the use of the actual
production capacity.
Goals
1.3  The proposed goal with program execution is to reduce the UFW from the level of 49%
reached in 1990 to 28% by the year 1999. This goal has been set after analyzing the results to be
achieved with the execution of the 21 projects included in the program. A reduction by 10 percentage
points is expected between 1990 and 1994 with program execution being undertaken by AyA with the
financial aid of the Central American Bank (CABEI) and IDB.
Scope of Work
1.4  The program comprises the execution of 21 projects as detailed in Table 5.2. Each project has
a detailed description of its objectives, justification and activities to be carried out. In addition, an
implementation plan, costs and financing has been proposed for each of the activities. All this
information is listed and available in the Project Files.
1.5  Table 5.3 summarizes the basic areas to be addressed with project execution, its issues, actions
proposed to be undertaken, targets and monitoring indicators.
Costs and Financing
1.6  The total program cost is estimated at about US$27.5 million equivalent, including physical and
price contingencies. Base prices are based on current prices of December 1991. About 62% of the



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
total program cost is included under the proposed Bank project and Bank financing is estimated to
cover 66% of this cost. A summary of program cost and its financing plan is presented in Table 5.2.
Implementation Plan
1.7  The proposed program will be implemented in six years. The program implementation
schedule for each project is available in Project Files. Detailed terms of reference and technical
specifications will be prepared for the contracting of services and purchase of equipment. For the
provision of the technical assistance, AyA has approached the Panamerican Health Organization
(PAHO), a UN specialized agency. Basically the services that AyA is estimating will be contracted
with or through PAHO are: (i) design and implementation of the commercial system, integrating all
the activities, procedures and information of this system; (ii) definition and implementation of an
operational and maintenance control and information system; and (iii) definition and implementation
of a customer service system.
Organization
1.8  For the coordination and monitoring of the UFW program execution, AyA is creating a
Technical Committee of UFW (TCUFW) integrated by high level staff of the engineering, financial,
planning and commercial departments. T'his committee will have an executive secretiarat where one
of the mentioned members will be assigned. Responsibilities of the secretiarat will be to coordinate
the execution of the program with the different organizational Units of AyA and through a
management information system assess the progress in program execution and in the reduction of the
levels of the UFW. The TCUFW will meet monthly to supervise and assess progress in program
execution, and whenever required by the secretiarat to take corrective actions in program execution.
The TCUFW and its secretiarat will be a permanent committee in AyA to ensure UFW reduction
goals are reached and remain under control.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE
ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS (AyA)
Table 5.1 Causes of the UFW
(1990)
:%0 otWater      % oftt
_____________-____:____:___ Produced    Total UFW
1.   COMMERCIAL LOSSES
1.1  Illegal connections                         4.87
1.2  Unregistered connections                    2.17
1.3  Billing adjustments                         4.22
1.4  Unmetered connections                       10.50
1.5  Non-functioning meters                      1.43
1.6  Submetering                                 2.37
Total Commercial Losses                               25.56          55
2.   PHYSICAL LOSSES
2.1   Overflows                                  2.00
2.2   Hydrants                                   1.00
2.3  Leaks                                       12.80
Total Physical Losses                                 15.80          34
3.   MACROMETERING                                     5.00          11
Total Commercial, Physical and Macrometering Losses:
46.36         100



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS (AvA)
Table 5.2 UFW Progrm Costs and Fnancing Plan, 1992-1999
(In US $ Thousands)
COSTS                          SOURCE OF FUNDS
|  OF
AREASIPROJECTS                 USS        BASE         EBRD                                     y ACE    - yA
COST                      -
Meterine
1. Macrometering                     456.0
2. Micrometering                    7372.5
Sub-Total                        7828.5        41         2980.0          64.5      4225.0       559.0
Commercial System
(Integral)
3. Billing nd Collection            3112.2
4. Control of higher consumers        10.8
5. Improvement of disconnection
procedures                       343.0
Sub-Total                        3466.0        18        3466.0
Consumers and Pipes Cadastres
6. Pipes Cadastre                    927.0
7. Equipment and Facilities
Cadastrm                           15.0
8. S1MA Consumers Cadastre            71.0
9. Regional Areas Consumenrs
Cadastre                         259.0
Sub-Total                        1272.0        7          1013.0         259.0                    _
Operational Control
10. Pitometry                        262.0
11. Operational Planning              50.0
12. Operational Control             2914.0
13. Operational Information
System                             (1)                                                             (1)
Sub-Total                        3226.0        17         2884.0                                 342.0



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
COSTS           -_-___ - SOURCK OFFUNDS
AREA OJC  US$,        B$ASZ..   IDRD           IDS          BCIE        AYA
Others:
14. Replacement of Connections      570.0
15. Design, construction and
operation coordinatioa            (I)
16. Leak detection                 1340.0
17. Equipment and facilities
mnaintenance                      787.0
1. S Depumtion of accounu
receivable                        10.3
19. Rationalization of meter
reading                          25.0
20. Autonatization of meter
reading                          185.0
21. Decentralization of the SJMA
commercial system                490.0
Sub-Total                       3407.3        17        1560.0          939           -        908.3
0
TOTAL BASE COST                19199.8       100        11903.0        1262.5     4225.0       1809.3
(December 1991)
Physical Contigencies (15%)     2880.0                  17S5.4          189.4      633.7       271.4
Total Base Cost plus
Contingencies                 22079.8                 13688.4        1451.9      4858.7      2080.7
Price Contingencies Total       5387.5                  3340.0         354.2      118S5.5      507.7
TOTAL PROGRAM COST             27467.1                 17028.4         1806.1     6044.3      2588.4
COST PER SOURCE OF
FUNDS (%)                                                 62              7         22           9
(1) Projects carried out by AyA's Engineering Depantment as part of their regular budget.



COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table S.3 Summary of the UFW Prgrm
Obieiva  (I) To reduce the economic loses to AyA's opemied systern geneated by the physical lross;
(2) To capture the lot revenues fromn de commnctial losss;
(3) to optimize the use of the exiding production capacity.
AREA                            -.UES                   ACTIONS PROJOSED                        TARGET                             MONTORJNG INDICATOR/DATE
Metering                 Uaamcterd connections             Insaltion of netea (one for        Insailation of 78,300 meters.   C.setioa With operating meter ()
Faulty mcters.                    ech connection).                  Replacement of 25,000 meters.                1994   195   1996   1°97   199    1999
Underregisationof meters.         Replaccmewtandrepair of           Repairl3,000meters.             SJMD        96.6   100    100    100    100    100
Lack of confidenc ia volumes      metrs.                            Inallation of mcromteters.      Other UA   S2.5   91.3   224   994    99.4   99.7
of water produced.                Macro-meters o as to control                                      Total (1)    90.7   96.3   99.7   99.7   99.7   99.7
All thee account for almod        100% of the water produced.
40% of the total UFW.                                                                               Mwrometeing (*)
SJMA (1)   50      60     s0      100
Conmercial Sytem         Inefficient billing system.        Design And inplemetation of a     A compkte design of the         Cmplints per month (% of number of bills)
Poor dimconnection prmcedures     new commwecial systcm.            commercial sysem will be                     1994   1995   1996   1997   1991   1999
which have an cffcct on prompt      Improvcment of conrumption      completed by no lter than       SJMD &
psymewt and collection.           data.                              June 30, 1994 anda satisfactory   2 Reg.    10     10     8      6       4       4
Receivables from ccral and       Impiemenation of active           action plan will be submitted to    Billing auatmuets (% totial monthy bilig
awononous government              disconnection policies.           the Bank by September 30,                    1994   1995   1996   1°97   1998   1999
agencies ar high, being           Control of higher volumc           1°94 and impiemcated           SJMA &
equivalat to 30% of accounts      consumera                         thereaftcr (1).                 2 Reg.       10     10     1      6       3       3
receivable. All these account     Arrange for settiement of 70%     A commercial maagemnct          Accounts Receivable/Average Monty Snle (1)
for aImos 15 # of the UFW         of receivables fmm govenwment     information systm by 195.                   1994   1995   1996   1997   1991    1999
of the SJMA and 4% of the         agencies in 1993, and institute    Control of 10% of the          SIMA &
total UFW.                        system of car-marking funds in    consumers of the SJMA that      2 Reg.      2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
official agencics budget to        ccount for 45% of the water    No. Disconnected User/Aver. Avnal C_mtecti  ()
prvtent recurrence                consumed nd 53% of the                      1994     1995    1    197   199    1999
billig.                       SJMA &
Starting December31 1993,      2 Reg.       10     8      6      4       4       3
AyA'c accounts teccivable will
not excecd 2.5 months of
billing (1).                   __
-u
I0
0 D
-+I X



ARE,                        ISSUES                    ACTIONS PROPOSED             :         TARGETS                          MONITORING INDICATOR/DATE
Conutmers & Pipes       ilegal water & ewerage           Incorporation of illegl          Incorporate in the SJMA around   No. of additional consectios/year (llgal & low-incme)
Cadagrec                connections.                     connections & low incom users    4,000 connection/year                      1994  1295   1996  1997   1998   199
Low income user not             recently detected through the     including: (i) illegal connections
incorporeted in AyA's registers  usen' census in the SJMA.        and (ii) low-income users.    SJMA        4000  4000  4000  4000   4000   4000
Lack of maintenance of the       Maintenance of uers' census      Integrate the consumers'
users' cens and pipes            up-to-date in the SJMA.          cadastres with the billing and  Pipes ad Water Facilitis Cadestr (I impl)entation)
ceadast  up-toate. All these     Up-datc and/or complete the      collection system to be                   1994  1995   1996  1997   1998   1999
account for almost 23 S of the   pipes and water facilities       implemeted and with the pipes   SJMA &
tot UFW.                         cadastres of the SJMA and msin   and water facilities cadastre to  2 Reg.  10    40      70     100      -       -
urban system.                    be designed and implmented.
Update and/or compktc the
pipes and watcr faciGitie
cadre in the SJMA and at
ls in 2 Regkoal.
Operational Control     Limited operationAl control of   Compete the automatization of     A complete cenral operational    % Imolmentation
the existig water aipply system  the water supply system of       contrl unit in operation for              1994   1995  1996   1997   1998   1999
of the SJIA an other urban       the SIMA, so as to have a        the SJMA and for the principal    SJMA &
sysems.                          Centrl Control Unit through      urban center by 1999.          Principal Usban
which opeations cn be                                          Cities      -      -      20    50       S0      100
executed .ud coatrolkd
Design the appropriate
operational control unit of the
water pply syetems of the
principal urban centers.
Replacement of          Old water connections are the    Replacement of water. Replacemcnt of 3.000                      Number of Cannectias  replaed/ymr
Connections             cae of consant leakages in       connections in the SJMA.          connections with their                    1994   1995  1996   1997   1993   1999
specific areas of the SJMA.                                       corresponding metenr.          SIMA       -      4,000  4,000
TOTAL UFW               UFW   ached a peak of 56% in     Continue with the                 UFW levels to fall to 2S% by  UFW Leeds (%)
PROGRAM                 1989 when a program of           impkmentationof the on-going      1999(1).                                  1994   1995  1996  1997   1992   1999
reductin began.                  UFW program. assigning                                          SIMA       32.5  29.3  26.9  26.8   26.7   26.6
priority to the actionm                                        Other
previously mentioned.                                          Urbn        43.1  36.0  27.3  27.2   27.1   27.0
Total (1)   33.7  33.7  23.7  28.4   23.0   27.9
(I) mplmentation and monioring target which will constitute legal covenants.
-~z
o m



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 11
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AvA's FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.   The financial performance for the period 1986-1992 is shown in the first three tables of this
annex. The 1986-1991 information corresponds to audited financial statements and the information of
1992 corresponds to the financial statements recendy issued by AyA, to be audited by June 1993.
2.   Following the previous mentioned tables, the financial projections are shown for the period
1993-2001 at current prices. The assumptions considered for the financial projections are presented
in pages 8 and 9 of this annex. Tables 6.1 and 6.2 present major details of AyA's investment and
debt service programs, respectively.



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENCE DE AaUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
HISTORIC INCOME STATEMENT
(MILt ColS)
1986       1987        1988       1989        1990       1991   1992 (1)
as=================  ==== ==============-==            == =======
WATER REVENUES                                                      1,000      1,285       1,488       1,507      1,944      3,225       4,800
SEWERAGE REVENUES                                                     102        131         115         117        205        326         415
OTHER                                                                   0           0          0           0          0           9         76
---------------------------- .------------------------------------------------
OPERATING REVENUES                                                  1,102      1,416       1,603       1,624      2,149      3,560       5,290
PERSONNEL COSTS                                                       525        673         904       1,150      1,302       1,665      2,111
POWER COSTS                                                           129         166        193         248        214         287        500
OTHERS                                                                107         143        198         269        404         636      1,009
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                    v |
OPERATING COSTS                                                       761         982      1,295       1,667      1,920       2,588      3,620                  vn
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                                            341        434         308       (43)         229        972       1,670
DEPRECIATION                                                          226         289        384         491        532         679        841
--                    --              ----                             ---                    ------
OPERATING INCOME                                                      115         145       (76)       (534)      (303)         293        829
FINANCIAL AND OTHER EXPENSES (Net)                                   (21)           7         24       (314)      (325)        (129)      (360)
NET INCOME                                                             94         152       (52)       (848)      (628)         164        468
WORKING RATIO                                                        0.69        0.69       0.81        1.03       0.89        0.73       0.68
OPERATING RATIO                                                      0.89        0.90       1.05        1.33       1.14        0.92       0.84
RATE OF RETURN                                                       n.a.       0.43       -0.18       -0.99      -2.45        1.91       4.51
(1) Non-audited
ou
z
o z



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
HISTORIC CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(mitt CoLS)
1986       1987       1988        1989       1990        1991   1992 (1)
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                            341        434         308       (43)         229        972        1670
OTHER NONOPERATING INCOME                              47          60         73         117         56        297           0
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                              388        494         381         74         285       1269        1670
AMORTIZATION                                          254         142        268         423        357        539         630
INTEREST                                               52         47          30        301         381        426        360
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                    306         189        298         724        738        965         990
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                                  41          69       (42)        492       (352)        361       (243)                              0'
OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES NEEDS                    107         197          6        312          47        629        (67)                               1
5-==== ==_===== ================ ======              === == =5=======-s=  = =          = = 55=     55=====sst==    55== = = 
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                           (66)          39        119     (1454)       (148)      (686)         990
INVESTMENTS                                          1738       1778        1727       2204        1625       1064       2058
TOTAL LOANS                                          1221        837         634        819           0        895         34
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS                                   583        902         974       2839        17m         907        1212
TOTAL FINANCING                                      1804        1739       1608       3658        1773       1802        1246
CHANGE IN CASH                                          0           0          0          0           0         52         177
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                   1.27        2.61       1.28       0.10         0.4        1.3         1.7
PERCENT CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                   -3.8         2.2        6.9      -66.0         9.1      -64.5       48.1
(1)  Non-audited
tOZ
m
o z



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
HISTORIC BALANCE SHEET
(mitl ColS)
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990     1991   1992 (1)
Total Net Fixed Assets                                          7551      9459     11753    15325    20715    24673    28550
Current Assets                                                   958      1175      1419     1156      1139      1859     1698
other Assets                                                     448       645       651      963        36       661      580
-.-.-.-----..-----------------------------------..-..--------------...-  .---..--------------.---------.-.------.-------.--------
Total Assets                                                 8957     11279    13823    17444    21890    27193   30828
Equity                                                          7060      8268      9634    12256    14876    18038   24383
Long Term Liabilities                                           1626      2423      2913     3945      4267      6996    5026
Current Liabilities                                              259       569      1235      1183     2747      2159    1419                    _n
other Liabilities                                                 12        19        41       60         0         0        0
Total Equity and Liabilities                                  8957    11279    13823    17444    21890    27193    30828
(1)  Non-audited
z
o Z
_M
vx      
v 0



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT 2/
(Milt CotS)     1/
------ ACTUAL ------------><----------------------- PROJECTED ----------------------------------------------------
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998      1999        2000         2001
WATER REVENUES                         1,944    3,225    4,800    6,650    7,493    8,473    9,530   10,699    11,960    13,320        14,534      16,158
SEWERAGE REVElUES                        205      326      415      560      613      696       809      898       992     1,093        1,180       1,299
CONNECTION FEES                            0        0       65       68       71        74       77       80        83        86           24          27
RECONNECTION FEES                          0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0         0            0           0
OTHER                                      0        9       11       12        13       14       15       16        18        19            0           0
--------.-----.--------------- --------_  -..-------.-------- ----------  ..  --  .----- . .....-.-.-.-.-  ....--------------- --------.-.----------------  -
OPERATING REVEHUES                     2,149    3,560    5,290    7,289    8,190    9,260   10,431   11,693    13,053    14,518        15,738      17,484
PERSONNEL COSTS                        1,302    1,665    2,111    2,364    2,601    2,809    3,034    3,276      3,538    3,821        3,701       4,064
CHEMICAL COSTS                            57       74       94      122      126       132      138      154       1 72      191         212          23S
POWER COSTS                              214      287      500      565      585      612       640      715       796       885         982        1,090
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                    0      456      456      539      623       704      791      885       986     1,098          753         878
PRIVATE CONTRACTORS                        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0         0           0           0             1
OTHER OPERATION COST
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS                     347      106      459      514      565       611      660      712       769       831        1,402       1,514            o
TOTAL OPERATING COST                   1,920    2,588    3,620    4,104    4,500    4,868    5,262    5,742      6,261     6,825       7,140       7,771
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION              229       972    1,670    3,186    3,691    4,392    5,169    5,950      6,792     7,693       8,590       9,713
DEPRECIATIATION                          532      679      841      975    1,082    1,422    1,779    2.188      2,630     3,046       3,637       4,433
OPERATING INCOME                        (303)     293      829    2,211    2,609    2,970    3,390    3,762      4,163     4,647       4,961       5,280
INTEREST EXPENSES                       381       426      360      401      430      383      663       630       930     1,017       1,254       1,337
INTEREST EARNED ON INVESTMENTS           56       297        0        0        0        0         0        0         0         0           0           0
INTEREST FROM  JNICIPALITIES              0         0        0       32       81      134       181      187       231       293         160         165
NET INCOME                              (628)     164      468    1,842    2,260    2, 721   2,909    3,319      3,464     3,923       3,067       4,108
=S2$S==2=S2a=32222S2222.U3=U22=======2=g=2Z===-======--===== ====Z = =3=2=t====5==s=5====a==ss8a=====--s=att25s=
WORKING RATIO                           0.89     0.73     0.68     0.56     0.55      0.53     0.50     0.49      0.48      0.47        0.45         0.44
OPERATING RATIO                         1.14     0.92     0.84     0.70     0.68      0.68     0.67     0.68      0.68      0.68        0.68         0.70
RATE OF RETURN                         -2.45     1.91     4.51    10.78    12.01     9.73      8.58     7.59      6.94      6.75        5.97         5.15
Source: AyA and IBRD estimtes. 1992 figures are not audited.
1/ current prices.
2/  Please refer to the notes in pages 7 and 8.                                                                                                                     z
o  Z
-4~ M
- x0



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASH FLOW STATEMENT  2/
MiLL Cots 1/
.........                         ............                  .....=.....
-                  ----- --ACTUAL---------------------- PROJECTED --------------------------------------------- >
1990   1991 *     1992     1993    1994      1995     1996     1997    1998       1999    2000    2001
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                                    229       972    1,670   3,186    3,691    4,392    5,169    5,950    6,792      7,693    8.598    9,713
INTEREST ON IiV. AID OTHER NONOPERATING INCOME                 56       297        0       32      81       134      181      187      231       293      160     165
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                      285    1,269    1,670    3,218    3,771    4,526    5,351    6,137    7,023      7,986    8,758    9,178
DEBT SERVICE, IJICIPALITIES                                                                32       81      134      399      411      461       531      253      261
AORTIZATION                                                    357      539      630      909    1,217    1,289    1,366    1,594    2,00s    2,021    1,649    1,698
INTEREST EXPENSE                                              381      426       360      401      430      383      663      630      930     1,017    1,254    1,337
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                             738      965      990    1,277    1,566    1,538    1,629    1,812    2,473    2,507    2,650    2,774
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                                         (352)     361     (243)    375       188      214      165       99      294       339      240      196
OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES NEEDS                              47      629      (67)    (40)      (40)    (40)    (40)       (40)    (40)       (40)       0        0
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                                    (148)   (686)    990    1,605    2,057    2,815    3,596    4,266    4,296       5,180    5,649    6,900
INESTMENT COST, IBRD PROJECT                                    0         0        0        0      359    1,433    1,647    1,441      578       413      426      439
INVESTMENT COST, OTHER (INICL. REPOSIT. FIXED ASSETS) (*)   1,625    1,017    2,006    6,781    6,698    5,468    4,236    1,453    3,936      6,143    4,888    2,365
INVESTMENTS COSTS, (MAINTENANCE)                                                            0        0      777      803    1,179    1,221     1,532    1,873    2,227   v
REORGANIZATION COSTS                                             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0   o
INVESTMENTS SUBTOTAL                                         1,625    1,017    2,006    6,781    7,057    7,678    6,686    4,073    5,736     8,088    7,186    5,031
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                             0       47       53       88      225      397      254      353      120        72       75       77
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                       1,625    1,064    2,058    6,868    7,283    8,076    6,940    4,426    5,855     8,161    7,261    5,108
REWJIRED FINANCING                                           1,M      1,750    1,069    5,263    5,226    5,261    3,344      160    1,560     2,960    1,612   (1800)
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT, IBRD                                         0        0        0        0      311      994    1,141      999      402       283      888    1,463
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT, IDB                                          0        0        0    1,423    2,097    2,267    1,909        0    1,687     2,465    2,025       0
TOTAL DISBURSENENT, BCIE                                         0        0        0    1,673    1,041      650        0        0        0         a        0        0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT, OECF                                         0        0        0        0      168      735      759      206        0         0        0       0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT, KfU                                          0        0       34      384      401      253        0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL LOANS                                                      0      895       34    3,481    4,018    4,899    3,809    1,206    2,089    2,748    2,913   1,463
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS                                          1,m        907    1,212    2,291    1,723    1,035      974      949    1,354    2,158    1,560    1 144
TOTAL FINANCING                                              1,7m     1,802    1,246    5,771    5,741    5,934    4,783    2,155    3,443     4,906    4,472    2,607
CHANGE IN CASH                                                   0       52      177      509      515      673    1,439    1,995    1,883     1,925    3,080    4,407
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                             0.4      1.3      1.7      2.5      2.4      2.9      3.3      3.4      2.8       3.2      3.3      3.6
PERCENT CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                            -9.1    -64.5    48.1    23.4    28.2    34.9    51.8          96.4    73.4       63.5    90.8   135.2
Does not include USS 4.5 millions, for Limon's Project In 1994.
Source: AyA and IBRD estimtes.                                                                                                                                    w
1/ Current prices.
2/  Please  refer  to the  notes  in pages 7 and 8.                                                                                                                   z
o   z
-^ rn 
-t os



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET 2/
(mitt CotS)  1/
<----- ACTUAL ----------><-------------------- PROJECTED ---------------)------------------------- >
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    1998       1999     2000    2001
========-=-      ===       fl========sS=======ss=========== = =_====s==s============
FIXED ASSETS                                    20,853   25,430   30,659   34,338   37,771   57,019   61,581   84,281   91,024   112,017  135,020  160,508
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                         7,058    8,485   10,854   13,132   15,526   18,190   21,425   25,327   29,982    35,426  41,396  49,141
NET FIXED ASSETS                                13.795   16,945   19,W804   21,206   22,245   38,829   40,156   58,955   61,042    76,591   93,632  111,367
FIXED ASSETS TRANSFERRED FOR ADMINISTRATION      1,033    1,044        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
WORK IN PROGREESS                                5,887   6,684    6,746   16,226   24,546   17,774   25,679   13,711   20,235    15,566    3,584   15,766
CASH                                               150      169      346      855    1,370    2,044    3,483    5,478   7,361      9,287   13,051   16,757
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SERVICES                       774    1,169    1,274    1,518    1,706    1,929    2,173    2,436   2,719    3,024    3,278   3,642
TRANSITORY INVESTMENTS                              22      321        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
INVENTORY                                          189      198       77      261      296      322      281      171      241       340      302      211
ANTICIPATED PAYMENTS                                 4        2        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                             1,139    1,859    1,698    2,634    3,373   4,295    5,937   8,084   10,321    12,650   17,431  22,110
-_----------..--.----.---- -----..I----------------- ------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------I------------------------
OTHER ASSETS                                        36      661      580      540      500      460      420      380      340       300      300      300        1
TOTAL ASSETS                                    21,890   27,193   30,828   40,606   50,663   61,358   72,192  81,131   91,938   105,107  114,917  128,012        O
LONG TERN DEBT, BEGINNING BALANCE                6,175    6,531    5,935    8,507   11,308   14,918   17,361   16,974   17,058    17,785   21,610  21,375
LONG TERM DEBT, INCREMENTAL REVALUATION                       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
LONG TERM DEBT, REVALLIED, ENDING BALANCE        6,175    6,531    5,935    8,507   11,308   14,918   17,361   16,974   17,058    17,785   21,610  21,375
LONG TERM DEBT, CURRENT PORTION                  1,926    1,551      909    1,217    1,289    1,366    1,594    2,005    2,021     1,600    1,600   1,600
LONG TERN DEBT, LONG TERM PORTION                4,249    6,982    5,026    7,290   10,019   13,552   15,768   14,969   15,037    16,185   20,010  19,775
OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES                         18       14        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL LONG TERM LIABILITIES                      4,267   6,996    5,026    7,290   10,019   13,552   15,768   14,969   15,037    16,185   20,010  19,775
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                   332      470      377      435      475      515      557      617      681       751      840      922
SHORT TERN LOANS                                     0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
SNORT TERN PORTION OF LONG TERN DEBT             1,926    1,551      909    1,217    1,289    1,366    1,594    2,005    2,021     1,600    1,600   1,600
ACCLMULATED EXPENSES                               489      138      133      128      123      118      113      108      103        98       93       98
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                        2,747    2,159    1,419    1,780    1,887    1,999    2,264    2,730   2,805      2,449    2,533   2,610
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                7,014    9,155    6,289    9,034   11,905   15,770   18,674   18,720   19,326    21,209   22,543  22,385       D
EQUITY                                          14,876   18,038  24,383   31,537  38,758  45,807  54,161   63,433   74,096    84,642  92,573  103,196
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                    21,890   27,193   30,828   40,606   50,663  61,358   72,192   81,131   91,938   103,276  114,917  128,012         Z
o z
DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY) RATIO                         29.33X  26.58X  19.58X   21.24X  22.59X  24.57X   24.27X  21.11X   18.71X    17.36X   19.26X  17.03X          _
CURRENT RATIO                                     0.41     0.86     1.20     1.48     1.79    2.15      2.62     2.96    3.68       5.17    6.63    8.47       -o
Source: AyA and IBRO estimates
1/ Current prices.
2/ PLease refer to the notes in pages 7 and 8.



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 1 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ASSUEMPONS F'OR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        Inflation and Exchange Rate. The annual average increase in consumer prices is
estimated to be about 12% and 10% in 1993 and 1994 respectively. Thereafter, prices are assumed
to increase at a rate of about 8% until 1999. Projected exchange rates reflect the difference between
domestic inflation and the expected international inflation, in order to maintain 'Purchasing Power
Parity".
2.         Water Demand. It is assumed that the volume of water consumed per customer is
maintained at 28 e3 per month between 1992 and 1999, and the population is assumed to grow at a
rate of 2.7 percent per year. The unaccounted for water is reduced from the actual level of 46% to
287% in 1999. (Annex 5)
3.         Revenues.   Revenues projections are based on existing tariffs and approved real
increases for 1993 of 17.3 % respectively. Thereafter, tariffs are adjusted for inflation only. Sewerage
charges are maintained at actual level of 18% of the water tariff.
4.         Operational Expenses. Projection of personnel costs are based on the assumption that
the number of employees will be maintained at the actual level of 2660 until 1999. Wage costs
reflect adjustments for inflation. The cost of chemicals and power have been increased in proportion
with the water produced, and inflation.
5.         Debt Service.    Amortization of principal is calculated based on the terms of each
loan. Interest payments are calculated over outstanding balance. (See Table 6.2) It has been assumed
that the outstanding debt with the Central Government will be refinanced based on an agreeded
amortization plan. (Annex 22).
6.         Investment Program. AyA's 1993-2001 investment program includes several projects
for a total of about US$293 million. The investment program includes new works, replacement of
fixed assets, new acquisitions, and studies. (See table 6.1.)
7.         Financing Plan. The overall financing plan for AyA's investment program (1993-2001)
includes about US$ 172 in new external financing, including the proposed US$26 million Bank loan
for this project and a new loan of US$13 million (not before 1998); about US$91 million from MDB;
US$23 million from CABEI; US$12 million from OECF; and US$7 million from KfW.
Contributions from the Government and other donors add up to US$56 million. AyA is expected to
fund about US$66 million of the investment program. Details of AyA's financing plan are shown in
Table 6.1.



- 62 -
ANNEX6
Page 9 of 11
8.         Balance Sheet Accounts. Accounts receivable are assumed at about 2 ! percent of
operating revenues, or about 75 billing days per year. Inventories are forecast at 4.2% of
Investments. Accounts payable are considered 3 months of direct operating expenses (other than
personnel and depreciation).
9.         Dgreciation. The average depreciation rate is about 3 percent per year of Revalued
Fixed Assets.
10.        Asset Revaluadon. Projected revaluation of fixed assets was done based on the
consumer price index.
11.        Fixed Assets Transferred for Administration. This item includes investments done
jointly by AyA and local rural communities on equipment and buildings. These assets are transferred
to the communities for their administration.



TABLE 6.1
COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING
*- ACTUAL-*  I                                      PROJECTED                                 >
TOTAL    1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
EXTERNAL LOANS
IDO                              51.03     0.03     0.00    10.00    14.10    14.80    12.09    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
DO8                              40.00     0.00     0.00     0.0O     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    10.41    18.20    11.39    0.00
OECF                              12.00     0.00     0.00    0.45     3.40     3.86     4.29    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
KIW                                7.30     0.00     0.00    2.30     2.40     2.60     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0 00     0.00
CABEI                             23.00     0.00     0.00    11.23    8.05     3.37     0.34    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
8IRF                              26.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.09     6.49     7.23    6.15     2.40     1.64    0.00     0.00
8IRF INewi                        13.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00    8.00
TOTAL EXTERNAL FINANCING      172.33     0.03    0.00    23.98    30.04    31.12    23.95    6.15    12.81    19.84    16.39    8.00
CONTRIBUTIONS. OTHER           70.05     7.76     6.62    14.93     9.36    4.71     4.43     4.10    5.85     6.00     4.35        1.96
Governent                      43.88     7.76     4.30     4.10    4.09     3.82     3.82     3.80    3.80     3.60     3.15     1.65
Municipalities and Commurities  10.23    0.00     0.25     1.13     1.09    0.90     0.61     0.30    2.06     2.40     1.20    0.30                 1
CARE                            7.06     0.00     1.80     5.26    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00                O,
OECF                            8.88     0.00     0.27     4.44     4.17    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00                LW
I
TOTAL AyA                      71.45     2.23     3.74     7.18     6.52    7.45     7.14     5.82    6.57    10.24     9.18     5.38
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM       313.82    10.02    10.36    46.10    45.91    43.29    36.62    16.07    25.23    36.08    29.92    15.33
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 1991-2001
WA rER SuP Y
1. SJMA                             74.58    0.50     3.60    14.66    11.89    14.16    11.80    9.88     3.01    2.08     2.00     1.00
2. Other Uubln Areas               112.14     3.98    1.66    16.64    19.80    20.49    18.27    0.67    10.68    12.68    6.73     0.73
3. Rural Areas                      46.06     3.90    3.06     7.33     7.25     6.62    3.50     3.50     3.50    3.30     2.80     1.30
Sub-total                          232.78    8.38     8.22    38.63    38.94    41.27    33.57    14.05    17.19    18.06    11.53   3.03
SEYWRAGE
1. SJMA                             44.08    0.14     0.34     3.83     1.57    0.00     0.00     0.00     5.51    10.00    11.39    11.30
2. Other Urban Aroas                24.86  _0.00 .... 1.102___.2.72     4.41     0.82    0.84     0.82     1.33     8 6.2   6.00 ---- 0.00.
to
Sub-total                           68.94    0.14     1.44     6.55     5.98     0.82    0.84     0.82     6.84    16.82    17.39    11.30
OTHERS                              12.11     1.50    0.70     1.01     1.00     1.20    1.10     1.20     1.20     1.20     1.00    1.00              0 Z
z
0 z
TOTAL                  313.83    10.02    10.36    46.19    45.92    43.29    35.61    16.07    26.23    36.08    29.92    15.33             X
ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 6.2
COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF DEBT SERVICE
(Mill CotS) (1)
1993      1994     1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
AMORTIZATION, IBRO LOAN                                        0         0         0        0         0       363       374       385       396
AMORTIZATION, IDB                                              0         0         0      226       232       239       247       254       262
AMORTIZATION, BCIE                                             0      263       271       279       374       385       397       408       421
AMORTIZATION, OECF                                             0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
AMORTIZATION, KfU                                              0         0         0         0       79        81        84        86        89
AMORTIZATION, REFINANCED LOANS USS                           781      815       833       391       487       485       500       515       530
AMORTIZATION, REFINANCED LOANS COLS                           50        57      100        53        41        42         0         0         0
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                       Mitt ColS          832      1135      1205       949      1213      1595      1602      1648      1698
INTEREST, ON IBRD, TOTAL                                      0        38        82       158       238       283       287       332       388
INTEREST, ON IDB, TOTAL                                      79       155       253       345       393       473       573       693       752
INTEREST, ON OCIE, TOTAL                                     67       171       223       234       215       191       165       137       107
INTEREST, ON OECF, TOTAL                                       0        3        19        46        65        70        72        75        77
INTEREST, ON KfU, TOTAL                                        7       23        41        52        52        49        47        45        42
INTEREST, REFINANCED LOANS USS                              273       212       127        76        52        49        46        42        38
INTEREST, REFINANCED LOANS COLS                              36        29        20        13         0         0         0         0         0
INTEREST, OPERATIONS
INTEREST, TOTAL                          MiLL CotS          462       632       766       925      1015      1119      1190      1324      1404
(1) Current Prices.
-u
z
o Z
Q"m
x 0



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in the GAM
Water Supply
1.        In 1990, about 1.4 million (45%) of Costa Rica's total population lived in the Great
Metropolitan Area of San Jose (GAM) and by the year 2,000, 1.8 million are expected to live in this
area. The GAM comprises the San Jose Metropolitan Area (SJMA) and 30 adjacent municipalities of
the Provinces of Heredia, Cartago and Alajuela. Of these 30 municipalities, 16 have water systems
that are under local government responsibility and the rest are under AyA's management (66% of
total GAM population). Water service coverage in the GAM is one of the best in the country, as 95
percent of the population has access to water through a house connection, but quality of service needs
improvement. Recently, a water and sewerage master plans have been prepared by AyA, establishing
technical solutions for the GAM as an integrated area. Although from the technical and economical
point of view this approach is adequate, an acceptable solution for the management and operation of
these services still has to be settled between AyA and the adjacent municipalities (a study to look into
this has been included under the project, para. 1.18). This should lead to more uniform levels of
service, water quality and water charges across all municipalities.
2.         The proposed project has been designed to assist AyA to improve the water supply
system of the SJMA which is AyA's area of jurisdiction. The analysis of the water demand and
supply of the SJMA is presented in Table 7.1. The average water production capacity of the SJMA is
4.4 m3/s (139 million m3/year) with variances between the dry and wet season of 10%. In 1991, the
average water production was 3.9 m3/s (124 million m3/year). It is composed of surface waters
(64%) and of deep wells and springs (36%). The most important surface water facility is the Orosi
water supply scheme (47% of total water provided to SJMA) that includes a pipeline of 28 Km. of
1.8 m3/s capacity and the Tres Rios treatment plant of 2.5 m3/s capacity. The major well fields are
La Valencia, south of Heredia and Puente de Mulas, south of Alajuela, presently with a combined
capacity of 1.4 m3/s (32% of total water provided). The total water production capacity of the SJMA
is not sufficient to meet the peak daily demand, which is estimated to reach 4.6 m3/s by 1996.
3.         The SJMA distribution network consists of 390 Ikm. of pipes larger than 150 mm. and
760 km. of small diameter pipes which account for 65% of the total network. In some areas of the
city there are operational problems mainly because of the poor functioning of these small pipes which
are old and in bad condition. In addition, the system has about 26 storage tanks, 8 pumping stations
in operation and a great number of valves and special equipment for pressure and flow controls. The
combined capacity of the storage tanks is 91,330 m3 which is not sufficient to guarantee effective
water pressures to certain areas of the city, especially at peak daily demands.
4.         The recently prepared water master plan (PLAMAGAM) has identified the groundwater
as the technical and most economical solution for the additional supply of water needed to cover the
demand of the GAM until the year 2015, with a first phase of development until the year 2003. This
study recommends the development of two batteries of wells, one located in Alajuela (Potrerillos) and
the other one in Heredia (North Zone). The proposed project will include the development of four



- 66 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
wells, two in each of this two areas, to cover the deficits of the near future of the SJMA and to help
define future exploration of groundwater in these areas. The expected production capacity increase
with this four wells is 0.3 m3/s.
5.         In addition to the need for increasing water production capacity, the water master plan
has identified the works and measures needed to improve the operational efficiency of the SJMA
water distribution system. The proposed project includes part of the first phase of these
improvements, since CABEI is financing the other part. These improvements will bring about better
water pressures throughout the city, reduction of operational costs and reduction of the vulnerability
of the Orosi pipeline. After these improvements are carried out, together with the UFW program
(reduction from 55% in 1990 to 27% by the year 1999, Annex 5), the capacity of the SJMA water
system would reach 4.7 m3/s which should be sufficient to cover the peak daily demand until the year
1999.
Sewerage Collection/DisDosal in the GAM
6.         The sewerage network in the GAM covers around 44 percent of the population and
consists of more than 140 km of main sewer mains with diameters ranging between 300 and 1470
mm. Wastewater is discharged without treatment into the four main rivers that cross the area from
East to West (Virilla, Maria Aguilar, Torres and Tiribi) to converge in the Rio Grande de Tarcoles
which discharges into the Golfo de Nicoya (Pacific Ocean).
7.         Coverage of the GAM by the sewerage network is incomplete and deficient. There are
several areas with insufficient collection network or without connection of these partial networks to
the main sewer mains that follow the four principal river basins, and many of the newer "barrios",
mainly those of low-income population, lack any form of sewerage. Also, several bridges and
pumping stations that connect the network of main sewer mains are non-operative because of lack of
maintenance or due to the effects of the latest earthquake, resulting in various important discharges of
untreated sewage in the upper parts of the rivers that cross the city.
8.         The pollution of these rivers is aggravated by the discharges of several industries and
coffee "beneficios' that increase the organic load and contribute to the general degradation of the
margins and the water quality, with important negative effects, both aesthetic and sanitary, to large
areas of the city.
9.         AyA has initiated the process of improving the sewerage collection, treatment and
disposal facilities of the GAM with the preparation of a Sewerage Master Plan (PLAMAGAM) which
includes increasing the capacity and completing the sewerage network and the main sewer main to
discharge in the proposed site of a sewage treatment plant in the Rio Virilla, as well as the expansion
of the coverage of the network to include those areas of the city which have difficulties for the
household disposal because of lack of surface or inadequate infiltration capacity of the soil.
10.        The Master Plan assigns priorities to the actions to be undertaken until the year 2,015
according to the affected population (giving higher priority to low-income areas) and the relation
between the required investment and the overall effect on the river water quality. The construction of
sewerage in Los Guido and La Pax, the completion and connection of the sewerage in those areas
which discharge into the streams and the reconstruction of the pumping stations and bridges that give



- 67 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
continuity to the main sewer mains are included among the urgent and priority actions of the whole
Plan.
11.       With IDB/OECD funds, AyA is in the process of contracting the feasibility study and
final designs of the first phase of the PLAMAGAM which includes the improvement and expansion of
sewerage collection, treatment and disposal facilities of the GAM. This study and designs are
expected to be completed by early 1996.
Water Demand and SuDDly in the SJMA
12.        Water consumption and production projections until 1999 are presented in Table 7.1,
based on the following assumptions:
a) The volume of water consumed per connection/month will be maintained around 29 m3,
(actual average consumption of metered connections).
b) The number of water connections will increase by 11,300 in 1992; 8,000 annually from
1993 to 1996; and 6,000 annually from 1997 to 1999.
c) The micrometering will be increased from 79% in 1991 to 100% by 1995 and will be
maintained at this level until 1999.
d) The UFW program will continue to be implemented (Annex 5) and thus the levels of UFW
are expected to be reduced from 55% in 1990 to 27% by 1996 and be maintained at this
level until 1999.



- 68 -                                                   Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 7.1
Water Demand and SupRIy of the SJMA
Vobase ot of W- -                                    -
Year          (Thonean)          (MI  lmmtaCo)    (Mi: C-/Year)..                 (%)          NW= WPW.
1990                  163.0                  27.2             57                  55                  126
1991                  171.2                  2S.7             64                  48                  124
1992                  182.5                  28.7             68                  44                  121
1993                  190.5                  28.7             72                  40                  119
1994                  198 5                  28.7             75                  33                  t1l
1995                  206.5                  28.7             78                  29
1996                  214.5                  28.7             81                  27                  111
1997                  220.5                  28.7             84                  27                  115
1998                  226.5                  28.7             86                  27                  118
1999                  232.5                  28.7             89                  27                  121
13.             Expected savings in terms of volume of water produced until the end of the century are;
Tab!e 7.2
UFW Progran - Water Savings
-- 1-     'Stiavpina 
l  Total Demam4  -   -     -      ----.UFW My)
Year             (9miilty er)                    310  4                   FrWOecut |-- - V IFYect           ar)
1990                    57                         55                    55                           0
1991                    64                         49                     48                          0
1992                    68                         48                    44-                          9
1993                    72                         4S                     40                        1I
1994                    75                         48                     33                         32
1995                    78                         48                     29                         40
1996                    81                         48                     27                         45
1997                    84                         48                     27                         46
1998                    86                         48                     27                         48
1999                    89                         48                     27                         49
TOTAL                                                            287
1/ Target already achieved under project preparation.



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
1.    The proposed project, which would be carried out during a 6 year period between 1994 and
1999, includes five main components: two (institutional strengthening and UFW) related specifically
to support the Government and AyA with main sectoral reforms and the improvement of efficiency
and finances of the sector, and three (water supply, sewerage and operations and maintenance) related
to the improvement of these services in the SJMA. The following is a description of the items
included in the project.
2.    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM (9% of project cost) consisting
of provision of office equipment, technical assistance, contractual services and staff training
for: (i) development and implementation of sound sector policies and institutional framework
reform; (ii) improvement of AyA's corporate planning; (iii) improvement of AyA's financial
management; and (iv) operating costs reduction, private sector participation and
decentralization. Details of this component are presented in Annex 11.
3.    UNACCOUNTED-FOR-WATER REDUCTION PROGRAM (UFW) (42% of proiect cost)
consisting of the provision of O&M equipment, approximately 112,000 meters, office
equipment, vehicles, contractual services, technical assistance and staff training for the
implementation of the following priority projects: (i) metering; (ii) commercial system
(integral); (iii) consumer and pipes cadastre; (iv) operational control of the SJMA water
system; and (v) replacement of connections in the SJMA. Details of this component are
presented in Annex 5.
4.    SJMA WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (33% of project cost) consisting
of:
(a)    Distribution pipes and storage tanks for the improvement of existing systems in
different areas of the SJMA, such as San Pedro, Pavas, Alajuelita, San Juan de Dios,
Escazu, San Pablo and Coronado. The distribution pipes vary in diameter from
50mm to 700mm and have a total length of about 76 km. There are 10 storage tanks
included in the project with a volume varying between 500 and 10,000 m3 each and
an aggregate volume of about 21,500 m3;
(b)    Production works including: 2 wells in the Potrerillos area and 2 in the Zona Norte
area. These wells will help define the future exploration of groundwater in these
areas.
(c)    Water pumping stations including the rehabilitation of the Guadalupe and Ipis
stations and the construction of the Maiquetia and San Pablo stations.
(d)    Consulting services including engineering designs of some of the above mentioned
I



- 70 -
ANNEX8
Page 2 of 2
works and supervision during construction.
5.    SJMA REHABILITATION SEWERAGE WORKS (10% of project cost) consisting of:
(a)    Rehabilitation, reconstruction and interconnection of sewage collectors and
pumping stations including the reconstruction of six interconnecting bridges and 40
selected points of completion and connection of sewerage collectors, of a diameter
varying between 150mm and 550mm and a total length of about 15 km. The pumping
stations to be rehabilitated are 7 and are located in marginal areas of the SJNIA.
(b)    Construction of sewage collectors in low income areas consisting of: (i) sewerage
collectors in Los Guido and La Pax with diameters varying between 150mm and
300mm and a total length of about 18 km.; (ii) an interceptor and pumping station to
discharge the effluent from La Capri into the San Miguel sewerage network. The
interceptor has a length of about 1 km and a diameter varying between 200mm and
250mm. The discharge pipe has a length of about 1 km. and a diameter of 250mm;
and (iii) San Miguel main sewage collector expansion in a length of about 7 km. and
diameters varying between 300mm and 400mm.
(c)    Consulting services including engineering designs of some of the above mentioned
works and supervision during construction.
6.    OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE (6% of proiect cost) consisting of: (i) O&M
equipment and vehicles to improve operations and maintenance of the sewerage systems; and
(ii) consulting services, equipment and civil works required for the vulnerability and
maintenance of the Orosi pipeline to natural hazards. Upon the completion of the consulting
services, an action plan will be formulated detailing the organizational and engineering
measures to be taken periodically to protect the pipeline.



COSTA MCA
aMworD WATY m         M S      AAND  OsmW J3vT
ATD COSTS
_                                 baauin S:00 0                                186. -866           1 -       1W-       166       1_8-
A. WSnTV1noAL S1T TH"O
1. gaevd PeIdem                                          64               6         415    30       04
2. CarpwUs Fla                                          362             106       2U      7 1      146       146        73
3.A  uiM                                               1126            327       1131     70       30        oil       306       306
4. _ruu*oIun M d.euUbn                               J30                207       622      75      ISS       18O        166       ISS       166
3. UFW P01#
1 ._                                                  3060             464       2627     35       303       327       327       027
2.C      l__m ddeVISmII30d                            2364              366      3236     30       710      1076      1073       710
2. C.usanwuud  pm Ca res                               1060              32      1019     37       106       316       316       315
4. OpwouuiCal                                          2861             120      2371     so                           Soo        B37       397       66l
S. A gmu    sICee M                                     Sl1             So1         0      0                 230       293
3. 03w.                                                1027               0      1027    100                            103       206       205       S13
-:f00j** j                      L .              ,      .      '.                           "IS 1,    113  ,313  2211  2064  1102    1111
C. UJMA WATER SMLY
1.
1.1 powwow                                              "I              476       406     46                 331
1.2 ZmnaNo" Wuft                                       773              324       443     s                            773
MA-TotdP r.dsI       ttl                         1654             600       364      62         0       331       773         0         0         0
2. SIWag Md Diotbatio
2.i hutp   mm   ofFibmy Ntwork                         1773            1046       727     41                 632      1241
2.2 _ipeawm        of S  -  1iwNetwok                 2932             1022      161       64                          *61       1937
2.3 C     _rw rtrt o sT                                1453            1177       276      1S                          436       1017
2A Cnu_um  of Pwipbu 3Wdw                             116              406       756    e6                                       360       316
3ii.Teed3 srq.   _t2sIhMAuon                          7220            2663      3677      40         0       632      2628      3364         16        0
2. bjj~mh
3.1 FindurID_                                           104              62        62     s0       104
3.2C_wtu_dm bsp       n                                 on              713       166    1                  141        330       336        32
kATad ,uin.u, I3I                                861             771       221      22       104       141       330       336        82         0
i _lO   :-a 865*0                     :                         64        4*        4i*      14 1V C14          2622      SO         33           0
D. UJMA 6WA0E
1. holubA,ewem. Sewag CuIscwr                          337              M87         0      0                 443       443
2. kd. Swp C        _ectmLos t0de                      1933            1425       213      13               1063
S.S dtt mn Ptwrph   9tbu6l                              162              16       146      g0                 46        113
4.I3i3 -                                                2                iii      220    6e         72        213        so
E. OPfATIOS AID MAUTEBiANCE
1. E.dpemtf f S    _w EIII                             416               60       365     me                 207       207
2. 1Ah*sden O_I
2.1 C _wbu_ermy m Ls -                                  145               0       146    100       146
2.      2E2t Equiparwit NM wWwk1141                                     342       7"      70                 670       670
SL60-y"m FAIMM     Orem to                          1286             342       644      73      146       570       570          0         0         0
_       1.             02   16        1         - 70   24--  7if    -          0          0         a
TOTALBA6ECOST Vemnbe_   10611                           3727   100    10313    10416    e6          2136      3212      8631      7224       2167      III1
PIIC_ {, 11    s I  11 6 orw 10%1                       4320            1513      2907      e6       28       1136      1306      1030        317       167
Tftd Dow Cow pk4 rC    I a                             34040           11626    22223    e6         2421      9336    10136       6234       2433      1276
Pdee C   -6      Totul548                                               1          24       67       134      1031      IS33       1647       G06       372
T_E"1__                                               8 *             1-62          j? 68          303    1                       0047  1173  6641  o3063  is"
7       20        30         23         3         4



COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENT/SU8COMPONENT                          1994       1995      1998      1997       1998      1999
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Sectoral Poicies                        -.
2. Corporate Planning                             -     - - - - - -      __
3. FinancIal Management               _----------- _-_-_._-.
4. Organization and dscentraflztlon          - _-                     ------ ---- - --------
B. UFW PROGRAM
1. Metwino                                             - -    - _ __  - - - .
2. Commweial System lintgral 1               _                     ._  _       _.
3. Conumerw   and i   Csdestres                                         . - -- 
4. Oprational Control                                                            . - -  _-
5. Replacemnt of Connections                   _ _. - -
6. Other                                                           .    ...   . .- - - -- 
-4j
C. SJMA WATER SUPPLY
1. Production
1.1 Potrerlo. We                                      - _ _
1.2 Zone Norte Wek
2. Storage and Distibution
2.1 Improvement of Primay Network                      __        _ _._
2.2 Improvement of Secondary Network                            _  - __
2.3 Construction of Storage Tanks                                -      _
2.4 Construction of Pumpin Statiorn                                         ._-             -
3. Engyee_n
3.1 Final Design
3.2 Construction Supervision                              - - - - - - -    -      
D. SJMA SEWERAGE
1. Rehmbjlnterconn. Sewage CoNectore
2. Intal Sewage Colastors Los Guido
3. RehabIltotion Pumping Stations                     __        ___ _
4. Eneern                                                            .  __......
E. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
1. Equipment for Sewerage
2. Rehabilitation Orosi
2.1 Consultancy services
2.2 Equipment end materials                           --------  -----------



COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROIECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
Obiectives: (I) To support Government and AyA with the definition of main sectoral policies and institutional framework for the sector; (2)0 oassure AyA 's longer term
financial viabiliy by addressing key financial and planning issues; and (3) to enhance the efficiency of AyA 's provision of essential public services by addressing
decentralization of AyA s operations together with cost reduction and private sector participation.
ARKA                                  I             ACTIONS SSTA.RGMTSDATES
Sectoral Plicies           Lack of sound investment      A Working Group integrated by        Study of investment and cost recovery policies by
and cost recovery policies    national Government authorities in  Dec. 31, 1994 and satisfactory action plan to be
for setor development.        charge of the institutional reformn  submittod to the Bank by March 31, 1995 and
Unnecessary duplication       and AyA's authorities has been      satisfactorily implemented thereafter (1).
and overlaps of               established to review and dcfine:   Study of institutional ftrameerk for the GAM by
responsibilities between      (i) sound investment and cost       June 30, 1994 and salisfactory action plan to be
entities acting in the sector.  recovery policies; (ii) an action  submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1994 and
plan for the implementation of the  satisfactorily implemented thereafter (1).
invcstment and cost recovery        Study of the institutional framework for the seor by
policies as well as for the         Dec. 31, 1994 and atisfactory action plan to be
institutional framework mainly for  submited to the Bank by March 31, 1995 and
the GAM.                            satisfactorily implemented thereafter (1).
-u
GA
z
Z
m
o x



I     AREA                      ISSUES ,                        ACTIONS ,                              TARGETS/DATES
Corporate Planning        Planning heavily oriented to  A long tcrm corporate plan will be  Budget model designed and approved by
technical investment         developed for AyA.                 December 31, 1995.
planning and weak            A budgdary process with             Training and budgetary process implemented by
intepation exists between    progrmatic content following       December 31, 1996.
the objectives and targets of    Government's budgetary reformn  Corporate planning model designed and approved by
the different opertional     proposals will be designed and     Decembcr 31, 1996.
areas.                       impiemcnted.                      Training and effective corporate strategic planning in
place by December 31, 1997.
Financial Management      Manual financial accounting  An integrated financialbudgetary    Integrated financialbudgetary and cost accounting
not integrated to the        and cost accounting system         system designed by June 30, 1994.
commercial system.           integrted to the commercial        Satisfactory action plan to be presented to the Bank
lack of budguty and cost     system will be developed,          by September 30, 1994 and implemented thereafter
accounting systms            The tariff structure will be       (1).
necessary for managerial     reviewed to eliminate the          Reform of tariff structure to be implemented
decisions.                   drawbacks mentioned in Annex 4     grduafly beginning Dec 31, 1994 and completed by
Several drawbacks in the     to reflect oconomic costs and equity  Dec. 31, 1996.
tariff structur,.            considerations.                    Sewerage study to be completed by June 30, 1995
Lack of financial            A financial projections system will  and implmented in correspondent urban areas by           -
projections system.          be developed.                      December 31, 1996.
Very low sewerg charges.    A study and correspondent
implementation plan to fix and
adjust sewerage charges in the
SJMA and other urban areas will
be carried out.
Decentralization, Cost     Lack of responsive          A decentralization model with its   Decentralization model to be completed by
Reduction and Private     management outside San       correspondent implementation plan,  June 30, 1994 and a follow-up action plan to be
Sector Participation      Jose.                        taking into consideration the       presented to the Bank by Sept. 30, 1994 and
Personnel costs reprecsnt    changes in AyA's organization,     implemented thereafter (1).
about 60% of operational     costs, personnel, etc., will be     100% subcontracting with the private sector in all
costs                        developed. The model will also     areas identified in the deecntralization model by June
Minimum sub-contracting      define communities, local          1996 (1).
with private sector.         governments, as well as private
sector participation.
(I) Impkmentation and monitoring targets which will consttute kgal covnants.                                                                            >
z
m
o )C
-4.



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL TARGETS
I                ______________________ I-  401993 1199411995  199C1997    811999l
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
1. Micrometering Level (%)                                  74        79       91       96        99       99        99        99
No. Connections with Operating meter x 100
No. Water Connections
2. Macrometering Level SJMA (9)                                                50        60       80       100      100       100
Metered water produced x 100
Water Produced
3. Unaccounted for Water (%)                                46        44       39        34       29        28       28        28
Water Produced - Water Sold x 100
Water Produced
4. Staff Productivity Level                                   8.6      8.2       7.8      7.5      7.2       7.0      6.8       6.6
Emplovees year end
1,000 Water connections year end
FINANCIAL TARGETS
5. Personnel Costs/Operating Costs (%)                      58        58        58       58       58        57       56        56
Personnel Costs x 100                                                                                                                         X
Operational Costs (without depreciation)             u_                                                                                          D
z
o z
m
o v
-4,
r\jr\



-~~~~~~~ -- -- -                                   n
1992    1993-    1994          - 1995 J1996  j1997    1998 I  1999
6. Working Ratio                                         0.7      0.55     0.55     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Operational Costs (without depreciation) x 100
Opeational Revenues
7. Debt Sevice Coverage Ratio                             1.7     2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4
Intenal Cash Genoation
Total Debt Service
8. Average Collection Period (Months)                    2.9      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
Accounts Receivable year end x 12
Annual Water x Sewerage Revenues
9. Contribution to lnvestmnt (X)                        36       14       14       14       20       30       30       30
Net Intemal Cah Generation
Tol Investments
-4I
z
fli
r'J z
m
o x
ri ro



COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
OPERATIONS                                                             ------ ACTUAL -----><------------------------------- PROJECTED -----------------------------------------
-        . - - - -M-I- - - - -UNITS                                       1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996     1997    1998    1999    2000   2001
C  S  ================z=SS==S ==S======3 =====S=          ==Sa======     S          535===zz====S.- SSS=g=3zs.==aa==nu
SAN JOSE METROPOLITAN AREA (SJMA)
WATER PRODUCED                                            1.3          126.1    124.3    121.4    119.3    111.1    110.5    111.1    114.6   117.6   120.6   123.6   126.6
WATER SOLD                                              1M3             57.4     64.4    68.2       71.9    75.0    78.1       81.2     83.9   86.2   88.5    90.0   93.2
UNACCOUtTED FOR WATER                                     X             54.5     48.2    43.8    39.7    32.5    29.3    26.9           26.8   26.7   26.6   26.5   26.4
WATER SOLD PER CONNECTION                              u3/w4onth/comn   27.2     28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7           28.7   28.7   28.7   20.7   20.7
WATER CONNECTIONS YEAR END                               ('000)        163.0    171.2   182.5    190.5    198.5   206.5    214.5    220.5  226.5  232.5  238.5  244.5
SERVICE COVERAGE, WATER                                    2            93.7     95.9     99.5     98.9      98.1     99.4     98.3     98.4   98.4   98.3   98.2   98.0
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS YEAR END                            ('000)        114.9    132.2   135.2    138.2    141.2   147.5    159.2    162.2  165.2  168.2  171.2  174.2
SERVICE COVERAGE, SEWERAGE                                X             66.1     74.0    73.7       71.8    69.8      71.0     72.9     72.3   71.8   71.1    70.5   70.0
CONNECTIONS WITH OPERATING NETER                         ('000)        136.0    135.1    138.1    161.1    191.8    206.5    214.5    220.5   226.5   232.5   238.5   244.5
CONNECTIONS UITN OPERATING METER                          X             83.4     78.9     75.7      84.6     96.6    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
OTHER URBAN AREAS
-----------_-----_ ----_ ---------_
UATER PRODUCED                                            IX3           63.5    69.8    84.1        88.5     84.4    79.1      72.5     75.2   78.0   80.7   83.4   86.1 -.
UATER SOLD                                                .3            39.5     41.5     42.8    45.1       48.0    50.6      52.7     54.7   56.8   58.9   61.0   63.1
UNACCOUNTED FOR UATER                                      X            37.8     40.5    49.1       49.0     43.1     36.0     27.3     27.2    27.1    27.0    26.9    26.8
WATER SOLD PER CONN4ECTION                             m3/month/comr   28.2      27.8     28.0      28.0     28.0     28.0     28.0     28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
UATER CONNECTIONS YEAR END                              (Qo0o)         116.8    120.7    126.7    134.2    143.2    149.2    155.2    161.2   167.2   173.2   179.2   185.2
SERVICE COVERAGE, WATER                                    2            67.9     70.4     70.4      70.4     70.4     70.4     70.4     70.4    70.4   70.4    70.4   70.4
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS YEAR END                           ('000)          12.8     12.7    13.2    13.7        14.2    14.7    15.2       15.7   16.2   16.7   17.2   17.2
SERVICE COVERAGE, SEWERAGE                                 X             7.4      7.4       7 4      7.5      7.6      7.6      7.7      7.7     7.7    7.8      7.8      7.8
CONECTIONS WITN OPERATING METER                          (o000)         86.7     89.7    90.7    96.2    118.2   136.2   154.2   160.2  166.2  172.7  178.7  184.2
CONNECTIONS WITN OPERATING METER                           2            74.2     74.3     71.6      71.7     82.5     91.3     99.4     99.4   99.4   99.7   99.7   99.7
TOTAL AyA
WATER PRODUCED                                            113          189.6    194.1   205.5   207.8   195.5   189.5    183.5    189.8  195.6  201.3  207.0  212.7
WUTER SOLO                                                113           96.9    105.9   111.0    117.1    119.9   125.6   130.8    135.9  140.7  145.1   149.5   153.9
UNAcCaUTED FOR WATER                                       X            48.9     45.4     46.0      43.7     38.7     33.7     28.7     28.4    28.0    27.9    27.9    27.9
WATER SOLD PER CONNECTION                             .3/month/comn   28.0    28.5        28.4      28.4     27.7     27.7     27.8     27.9    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
WATER CONNECTIONS YEAR END                               ('000)        279.8    Z91.9   309.2   324.7   341.7   355.7   369.7   381.7  393.7  405.7  417.7  429.7
SERVICE COVERAGE, UATER                                    2            81.5     83.8    83.8    83.8    83.8    83.8    83.8           83.8   83.8   83.8   83.8   83.8
SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS YEAR END                           ('000)         127.7    144.9   148.4   151.9   155.4   162.2    174.4    177.9  181.4  184.9  188.4  191.9
SERVICE COVERAGE, SEWERAGE                               V.3            37.2     41.6     41.3    40.6    40.0    40.6    42.0          41.7   41.4   41.1    40.8   40.4
CONNECTIONS WITH OPERATING METER                        ('000)         222.7   224.8   228.8   257.3    310.0   342.7   368.7   380.7  392.7  405.2  417.2  429.2
CONNECTIONS WITH OPERATING METER                           2            79.6     77.0    74.0    79.2    90.7    96.3          99.7     99.7   99.7   99.9   99.9   99.9
EMeOYEES/1000 WATER CONNIECTIONS, YEAR-END            Per/1000 Corm      9.5      9.1      8.6      8.2       7.8      7.5      7.2      7.0     6.8    6.6      6.4     6.2
No. EMPLOYEES                                                         2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0   2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0  2660.0
m
0 _
r-4'



FINANCIAL
TOTAL AyA
AVERAGE UATER TARIFF/M3 (CUJRRENT Cots)               CotS/m3         20.1    30.5    43.2    56.8    62.5    67.5    72.9          78.7   85.0   91.8   97.2  105.0
AVERAGE UATER TARIFF/M3 (CONSTANT 1990 ColtS)         CotS/a3         20.1    24.3    29.7    34.9    34.9    34.9    34.9    34.9   34.9   34.9   34.9   34.9
AVERAGE UATER TARIFF/M3 - ANNUAL INCREASE IN R.T.        x             0.0      0.0    20.3    17.3        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
AVERAGE COST/M3 SOLD (CLURRENT Colts)                                 19.8    24.4    32.6    35.0    37.5    38.7    40.2    42.2   44.5   47.0   47.0   50.5
AVERAGE COST/M3 SOLD (CONSTANT 1990 CoLt)                             19.8    19.5    22.4    21.5    21.0    20.0    19.3    18.7   18.3   17.9   16.8   16.5
AVERAGE PERSONNEL COST/M3 SOLD (CURRENT Cots)                                  29.0    32.8    34.7    36.2    37.4    38.8    40.3   42.2   44.3   42.7   45.0
AVERAGE PERSONNEL COST/M3 SOLD (CONSTANT 1990 CoLs)                            23.1    22.6    21.3    20.2    19.4    18.6    17.9   17.3   16.8   15.0   14.6
PERSONNEL COSTS/OPERATING COSTS             X                         67.8    64.3    58.3    57.6    57.8    57.7    57.6    57.1   56.5   56.0   53.0   52.5
AVERAGE PERSONNEL COSTS/WATER CONN. YEAR-END          CoLS/Coin.       4.7      5.7      6.8      7.3      7.6      7.9      8.2      8.6    9.0    9.4    9.1    9.5
AVERAGE ANNUAL SALARY PER EMPLOYEE                   ColS/Eop./Yea   489.5   625.9   793.6   888.8   977.7  1055.9   1140.4   1231.7  1330.2  1436.6  1425.4  1535.2
AVERAGE ANNUAL SALARY PER EMPLOYEE (CONSTANT 1990 CoLS)              489.5   499.5   546.0   546.0   546.0   ,46.0   546.0   546.0  546.0  546.0  546.0  546.0
WORKING RATIO                                                          0.9      0.7      0.7     4.&O,O:< O-TO.; 0.5        0.5      0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.4
OPERATING RATIO                                                        1.1      0.9      0.8      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7
DE8T SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                                                     1.3      1.7   z , 2.4 2.4          2.9      3.3      3.4    2.8    3.2    3.3    3.6
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT (M)                                                 22.0    36.0      6wOI.a    I 4.  i O e o4- 020.0    30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE/AVERAGE MTHLY SALES                                4.3      3.9      2.9      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
INVESTMENTS OTHER THAN PROJECT (CLURRENT CotS MILLION)               1,625    1,017    2,006   6,781    6,698    5,468    4,236    1,453   3,936  6,143  4,000  2,365
INVESTMENTS OTHER THAN PROJECT (CONST.1991 ColtS  IL.)               1,625      812    1,380    4,165    3,741    2,827    2,028     644   1,616  2,335   1,720    771
PROJECT PERFOR4NCE                                                                                                                                                        -.1
BANK LOAN DISBURSED (1)                                                                  0.01     0.01     8.01    33.0x    60.81    84.51   93.71  100.02    0.0    0.0
ACC. PROJECT COST/TOTAL APPRAISED COST (1)                                               0.01     0.01     6.1%    30.51    58.61    83.11   93.0x  100.01    0.0    0.0
ACC. PROJECT COST/TOTAL REVISED COST (1)                                                 0.01     0.0o     6.11    30.51    58.6x    83.11   93.01  100.01    0.0    0.0
ECONOMIC
AVERAGE ANllL INFLATION RATE (1)                                     19.01   28.7X    18.01    12.01    10.01      8.01     8.0x     8.01    8.01    8.01    8.01    8.01
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE (CoLS/USS)                                     91.60   122.40   135.60   142.30   148.70   153.20   157.80   162.50  167.40  172.40  177.60  182.50
z
N Z
m
a x
ni L



- 79-                                 NJ
~~ 79   ~  ~    ~         MJ~NNEX 14
COSITA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJXECT
Allocation or Loan Proceeds
The proposed disbursement categories, the allocation of loan funds and the disbursement
percentages are as follows:
~~~~~Cakego~~~~~~~~~j  .:..  (US$~~~~~~~~~ .. ......... .....nc
1.   CivU Works                                 2.0                     30
2.   Equipment and materials                    15.0                    65
3.   Consul , technical assince,                6.0                     100
trainng and supervision of works
4.   Unallocated                                3.0
TOTAL                            26.0



- 80 -
ANNEX 15
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedul
Bank Fiscal Year    Quirterly Disbursement     Cumulatie-    Disbursement
and Quarter Ending       -US$ nillion) -       -USS million)       - oUf Tota
FY 1994
March31, 1994.a/               1.4                    1.4                5
June 30, 1994                  0.0                    1.4                5
FIY 1995
September 30, 1994             0.8                   2.2                 8
December 31, 1994              0.9                   3.1                 12
March 31, 1995                 0.9                   4.0                 15
June 30, 1995                  0.9                    4.9                19
FY 1996
September 30, 1995              1.0                  5.9                 23
December 31, 1995               1.0                  6.9                 27
March 31, 1996                  1.0                  7.9                 30
June 30, 1996                   1.0                   8.9                34
FY 1997
September 30, 1996              1.2                  10.1                39
December 31, 1996               1.2                  11.3                43
March 31, 1997                  1.3                  12.6                48
June 30, 1997                   1.3                  13.9                53
FY 1998
September 30, 1997             2.1                   16.0                61
December 31, 1997              2.1                   18.1                70
March 31, 1998                  1.3                  19.4                75
June 30, 1998                   1.2                  20.6                79
FY 1999
September 30, 1998             0.9                   21.5                83
December 31, 1998              0.9                   22.4                86
March 31, 1999                 0.9                   23.3                90
June 30, 1999                  0.9                   24.2                93
FYl 2000
September 30, 1999             0.9                   25.1                97
December 31, 1999              0.9                   26.0                100
I/ Represents the initial deposit in the special account plus retroactive financing of up to
US$0.3 million which would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after September 30, 1992,
but not before 12 months prior to loan signature.



- 81 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation and Supervision
Staff nrut for Proiect Launch and Mid-Course Review
1.    Given the project's comprehensive approach to sector reform and improvement of efficiency
and finances of key 3ector institutions, extensive and close supervision would be required, especially
during the first three years of project implementation.
2.    A project launch workshop and yearly project review workshops will be organized, assisting
the staff of AyA and public sector reform authorities develop a common understanding of the
project's overall development objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs and potential
implementation problems.
3.    The tentative supervision timetable and required Bank staffing is the following:
Project Launch WorkshoD. Third Quarter 1993
Focus:                    reviewing and adjusting (as needed) implementation plan, identifying
and planning required coordination among AyA and public sector
reform authorities, project management, procurement, disbursement
and auditing procedures and requirements. Technical assistance and
appraisal of the 1993-1994 sector investment plan.
Duration:                 3-5 days.
Participating Bank staff:  -Task Manager
-Sanitary Engineer
-Financial Analyst
-Institutional Development Specialist
-Environment Specialist
-Procurement Specialist
-Disbursement Specialist
Time Required:            9 staffweeks



- 82 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
Annual Project Implementation Review Workshop. Third quarter of years 1994-1995-1997-1998
Focus:                     Project progress review, identification of implementation problems and
issues for the upcoming year.
Duration:                  2-3 days.
Participating Bank staff:  -Task Manager
-Sanitary Engineer
-Financial Analyst
-Institutional Development Specialist
-Environment Specialist
-Auditing Specialist (year 1994)
-Lawyer (year 1994)
Time Required:             1994 - 8sw/1995, 1997,1998 - 6sw
Mid-Term Implementation Review (Evaluation) - Third Ouarter 1996
Focus:                     Project Performance, identification of areas in need of adjustment.
Duration:                  5 days.
Participating Bank staff:  -Task Manager
-Sanitary Engineer
-Financial Analyst
-Institutional Development Specialist
-Environment Specialist
-Macroeconomist
Time Required:             6 staffweeks
4.    In sum, the Project Launch and Annual Project Implementation Review Workshops, and the
Mid-Term Evaluation would require a total of 41 staffweeks. In addition, two regular supervision
missions (of two-weeks duration) per year, comprising the task manager and two specialists, will be
necessary. Thus, total field supervision would amount to 113 staffweeks, and it is reasonable to
assume that office supervision will amount to an additional 31 weeks, for a total of 144 staff weeks
during the life of the project, i.e. an average of 24 staffweeks per year.
5.    During the first two years of project implementation, supervision efforts will focus on
organization and team development within AyA with a view toward strengthening the operational
capacity of AyA's Planning Department. The Project Launch workshop will be followed by
additional supervision input to familiarize selected local staff with Bank's procurement, disbursement
and auditing procedures and guidelines. It is expected that Bank staff will assist AyA and the other
public sector reform authorities in prioritizing investments as well as technical assistance needs.



- 83 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
Proposed Agenda for Annual and Mid-Term Implementation Reviews
6.    The annual project review-to be organized by AyA's Planning Department-- will take place
on or about September 30 of each year, starting in 1994, with the participation of AyA's Planning
Department, representatives of AyA's executing Departments, public sector reform authorities and
Bank staff. Annual reviews would provide an oDportunity to assess project and Borrower's
performance against the annual implementation plans and agreed targets and would serve to update
and revise, as necessary. AyA's 1993-2001 investment program and financing plans and to review
issues of overall proiect management with senior AyA's officials and public sector reform authorities.
The result of the annual review would be the clarification of the following year's operating plan,
identifying and agreeing on remedial actions required to address problems of changing circumstances
during implementation. Thus the annual reviews and planning process will provide a tool for ongoing
refinements in project strategies and plans, consistent with the overall objectives of the project.
7.    The mid-term review to be conducted on or about September 30, 1996 would follow the same
format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project impact would be expanded, with additional
emphasis on the implementation of the regulatory framework, sectoral policies and AyA's efficiency
improvements. In addition, the mid-term review will result in an agreed updated set of targets and
indicators for years 1997 through project completion in 1999.
8.    A summary of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term reviews is presented
below. Special attention would be given to the review of the adequacy of AyA's water supply and
sewerage charges and to the proposal and approval of tariff adjustments. Project and Borrower's
performance will be measured monthly against those targets which constitute legally binding
commitments: (i) operational and financial targets presented in Annex 12; (ii) key actions related to
the institutional strengthening program (Annex 11) and the unaccounted for water program (Annex 5)
which are summarized in Section 5.1 and 5.2 of the SAR; and (iii) key actions for the protection of
the Orosi pipeline (para 2.9 of the SAR). Noncompliance with these commitments would constitute a
default of the Borrower. In addition, the annual review will also evaluate project performance by
taking into account other targets and indicators which, though not as important as the key indicators,
will provide a basis for assessing overall project and Borrower's performance and for identifying
areas where corrective action may be required (these targets and indicators are contained in Annexes
5, 10, 11 and 13).
Institutional Strengthening
A.    Sector-Wide Issues
(a)    Sectoral policies and institutional framework:  Progress in the establishment
of sound investment and cost recovery policies, the design and implementation
of the institutional framework for the sector, prioritizing the GAM; and
(b)    Regulatory framework: Progress made in implementing SNE's restructuring
plan and action and time taken by SNE concerning approval of AyA's tariff
requests.



- 84 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 5
B.    AyA's Issues
(a)    Corporate Planniny: Progress in: (i) the development and implementation of
a budgetary process with programmatic content following Government's
budgetary reform; and (ii) the development and implementation of a long term
corporate plan;
(b)    Financial Management: Progress in: (i) the development and implementation
of an integrated accounting system; (ii) the reform of the water tariff
structure; and (iii) the development and implementation of sewerage rates to
be applied in the SJMA and other urban areas; and
(c)    Decentralization and Private Sector Participation: Progress in: (i) the
development and implementation of a decentralization model promoting major
private sector participation; and (ii) contracting with the private sector.
Unaccounted for Water (UFW)
(a)    Metering: Progress in: (i) the procurement and installation of new meters; (ii) the
replacement of old meters; and (iii) the procurement and installation of macrometers
to control water production in the SJMA;
(b)    Commercial System: Progress in: (i) the definition, design and implementation of an
integral commercial system linked to the accounting system; (ii) development of a
commercial management information system; and (iii) development and
implementation of special procedures for the control of consumers with high levels of
water consumption;
(c)    Consumers and Pipes Cadastre: Progress in: (i) the incorporation of illegal
connections to AyA's consumers cadastre; (ii) the development and implementation of
the pipes cadastre;
(d)    Operational Control of the SJMA Water Supply System: Progress in the
development and implementation of an operational control system that will improve
the operational efficiency of the distribution system; and
(e)    Replacement of Connections: Progress in the replacement of old connections in the
SJMA.
AyA's Investment Program
Progress in implementing AyA's 1993-2001 investment program and revision of the
plan in view of progress achieved in the previous year and possible changes in priority.



- 85 -
ANNEX 16
Page 5of5
Project Management and Coordination
(a)    AvA's PlannIg Department performance: this will be evaluated with major
emphasis on its ability to coordinate AyA's executing Departments and public sector
reform authorities to achieve the project's objectives. The composition of the
Planning Department will be analyzed, in order to receive feedback from the
executing Departments regarding its ability to adequately manage technical and
administrative issues; and
(b)   Procurement and disburse: technical ability, soundness of judgement, and
compliance with Bank guidelines will be assessed taking into account actual project
performance during the period under review. This analysis will indicate if there will
be a need to strengthen the specific areas under review. It will also serve the purpose
of discussing with the executing agency Bank procedures and project objectives.



- 86 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
National Water Suply and Sanitation Policy Statement
October 23, 1992
DM-0977-92
Mr. Lewis Preston
President International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Preston:
The Government of Costa Rica is negotiating with the World Bank a
loan to continue the support for the development of the water and sewerage
subsector of the country, which will be carried out by the Instituto
Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA).
As you are aware, the Government is streamlining and restructuring the
public sector to improve its efficiency in general, specially in the provision of
essential services as water and sewerage.
For the Government of Costa Rica this subsector has a fundamental
priority and this is reflected in the high levels of service coverage, specially in
the urban centers. Nevertheless, the Government is conscious that to maintain
these levels of coverage and improve the quality of service, as well as to
address sanitation and environmental issues, new policies will have to be
implemented to continue with an orderly development of this subsector in
accordance with the public sector reforms.
The policies mentioned below are part of the general policies outlined
in the National Development Plan, specifically in the Infrastructure Program of
Support to Strategic Production, the Sectoral Health Program and the Public
Sector Reform Program. These policies are the ones that the Govemment has
defined for the development of the subsector, and are considered important for
the development of the project that is presently being negotiated with the Bank.



- 87 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
1.   Institutional Policies and Public Sector Reform:
1.1   AyA, consistent with the Public Sector reform policy to increase its
efficiency through the execution of the project being negotiated with the World
Bank, is and will continue maling efforts to achieve, mainly the following
objectives:
(i)    A more dynamic and decentralized organization as a way to
improve productivity and respond in a more agile way to
operational issues outside San Jose.
(ii)   A bigger participation of the private sector to improve
productivity in the provision of water and sewerage services,
primarily of the urban areas.
(iii)  Improve the financial and commercial systems, and
(iv)   A reduction of physical and commercial losses through the
execution of the Unaccounted for Water Program (UFW).
1.2  It will establish within the Health Sector, the Water and Sewerage
subsector to be coordinated by AyA.
The subsector will include the public water and sewerage systems.
Individual solutions like wells, latrines and septic tanks are not included in the
sebsector, because in accordance with the law they are under the Ministry of
Health's responsibility.
1.3   The Water and Sewerage Subsector will be integrated by:
- The Ministry of Health (MSP);
- The Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA);
- 'Ihe Instituto de Fomento y Asesoria Municipal (IFAM);
- The Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines (MIRENEM); and
- Other related institutions.
1.4   The Government will support the inter-institutional coordination in the
subsector, the Health Sector and other affected sectors, seeking major
efficiency and appropriate management in the provision of water and sewerage
services.



- 88 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 4
2. - Improvement and Expansion of Water and Sewerage Services
2.1  It is expected that by the end of the present decade, AyA will have
under its management all the public water and sewerage systems operating in
the country, in accordance with terms outlined in its constitutive law.
2.2   The present coverage and quality of water supply service will be
maintained, and sewerage services will be increased, specially in the GAM and
other urban areas.
3.    Water Ouality
3.1   Contamination of water courses will be reduced, specially in the GAM
and the Rio Grande de Tarcoles. Necessary actions for the integrated
management of the river basins will be taken.
3.2   The quality of water provided nationwide will be guaranteed, as
established in the General Health Law in accordance with the guidelines of the
Ministry of Health.
4.    Financing
4.1   All the financial resources assigned by the State to the Subsector of
Water and Sewerage will be used to comply with the policies proposed in
items 2 and 3 above.
4.2  Investments and costs of operation, maintenance and administration of
water and sewerage systems of the country should be totally recovered.
In the case of rural populations of low income or for marginal urban
areas, the State, where justified, might establish a transparent subsidy.
4.3   The water and sewerage tariffs will be established to reflect in average
the service costs, as well as to generate sufficient cash to contribute to the
investment program as needed.
4.4   To fulfill the Subsector objectives, an investment plan for 1993-2001
has been prepared, totalling US$293 million or about US$33 million/year, for
which the following financing is foreseen:
(i)   Internal and External Loans     59%
(ii)   Government Contributions       11%
(iii)  Internal Cash Generation       22%



- 89 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
(iv)  Grants                        5%
(v)   Communities and Municipalities
Contributions                 3%
The above, without excluding that during plan execution other financing
could be available.
With the implementation of these policies, we hope to achieve a greater
development of the Subsector.
Yours truly,
Rodolfo Mendez Mata              Carlos Vargas Pagan
Minister of Finance          Minister of National Planning
and Economic Policy
(Translated from Spanish original)



- 90 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
COSITA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
OUTLINE OF AvA's PERFORMANCE PLAN
1.        The performance plan is the development or business plan of the Institute, for the period
of 1991-1992 (actual) and 1993-2001 (projected). It includes the different programs that the Institute
will carry out in order to achieve the operational and financial targets shown in Annex 12 of the SAR.
The actions under the different programs are grouped into: (i) operational program; (ii) investment
program; and (iii) debt service program. The contents of the plan includes: (i) background;
(ii) objectives; (iii) goals; (iv) programs to be developed (the above mentioned); and (iv) financial
projections.
2.         The contents of each of the chapters is described below:
(a)   Background
This chapter includes AyA's background information.
(b)  Qbjectives
This chapter describes the principal objectives that the Institute will pursue during the
planning period. The objectives are consistent with the goals and programs proposed in
the next chapters.
(c) IQal
The financial and operational targets to be achieved during the planning period
(Annex 12) are described under this chapter. In addition, AyA has determined its
monitoring indicators through which it will evaluate the implementation of the different
programs (See Monitoring Indicators - Annex 13 of the SAR).
(d)  Prggrams
A description of the following programs is included in this chapter:
Qrational Program. It includes all the actions to be developed by AyA in order
to operate and maintain the water and sewerage systems currently under its
administration, to improve its efficiency, and to achieve its financial self-
sufficiency. This program also includes all actions related to the water quality
control program, decentralization, resources optimization, increase of private
sector participation, etc.



- 91 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
It includes all investment project planned to be executed
with diffeent financial resources and summarized in Annex 6 of the SAR.
Debt Service Proam. It covers all the Institute's debt obligations, including the
refinancing of US$33 million to the Ministry of Finance.
(e)            
Under this chapter, financial projections have been prepared showing the financial
results of the execution of the above mentioned programs. These projections are shown
in Annex 6 of the SAR.
3.         AyA ha prepared its performance plan u a condition of negotiations. Progress in the
implementation of this plan will be submitted by AyA to the Bank every semester (due August and
February of each year).



- 92 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SIJPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Decentralization and Private Sector Participation
Terms of Reference
Background
1.1   AyA's responsibility is to provide water and sewerage services to the population.
Since these services need to be provided in different urban and rural centers, the
decentralization of management is mandatory, so as to have an agile and responsive
management of day to day operations.
1.2   On the other hand, AyA has experienced growth in all its functional areas. This is
due to the fact that it has incorporated more water and sewerage systems all over the
country; at the same time, AyA is trying to improve its efficiency by attracting private sector
participation together with decentralization of operations as a way to improve productivity.
1.3   These terms of reference attempt to analyze the decentralization process to be applied
in AyA together with major private sector participation as a way to improve efficiency. Both
aspects have been outlined by the Central Government, as strategies of the Public Sector
Reform Program.
General Obiective
1.4   To improve AyA's efficiency through decentralization and major private sector
participation.
Specific Objectives
1.5   The specific objectives are: (i) to define, nationwide, the activities to be decentralized
and to be contracted with the private sector; (ii) to formulate a Decentralization Program
with the definition of its action plan; (iii) to formulate a Private Sector Participation Program
with the definition of its action plan; and (iv) to formulate a Training Plan for the
Decentralization Program.



- 93 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
Scope of Work
1.6   Definition of the activities or functions to be decentralized; definition of areas or
functions that could be contracted with the private sector, and analysis of the conditions to be
given for the possible contracting; definition of priorities in decentralization and contracting;
identification of necessary resources in order to make decentralization and private sector
participation possible.
1.7   In the Private Sector Participation Program, activities to formalize contractual services
with the private sector will be identified and scheduled for their implementation. The
Program has to take into account the general contracting policy, defined by the Central
Govemment, as well as the necessary resources for its execution. It will include the action
plan with the activities that will have to be carried out by the different units of AyA to
achieve results with Project execution.
1.8 Under the Decentralization Program, activities to formalize the decentralization
process will be identified and scheduled for their implementation. This Program has to
consider the regional division established by the Central Government and also the systems
that AyA has in operation in each region. It will also take into consideration, the
management setting to be applied in the regions. It will contain the action plan with the
activities that will be carried out by the different units of AyA to achieve results with Project
execution.
1.9 The training plan for the Decentralization Program has to establish the necessary
training activities that will permit the staff of the different regions to perform the new
activities to be transferred from Headquarters.
1.10 The decentralization model including activities or functions to be decentralized, as
well as areas or functions to be contracted with the private sector would be completed by
June 1994 and a follow-up action plan would be submitted to the Bank by September 1994
and implemented thereafter.
Organization
1.11 A working group will be established for each of the subcomponents, i.e. the
Decentralization and Private Sector Participation Programs. These groups will receive
technical assistance as follows: (i) an external consultant for 12 months with expertise in
organizational models who will be in charge of formulating the general model of
decentralization and private sector participation, together with the correspondent
programming; (ii) two local consultants for 30 months who will help with the formulation of
each of the programs and their implementation; and (iii) one local consultant, expert in legal
matters, for six months, to contribute with the other consultants in all legal aspects that fall
into the contractual services process with the private sector.



- 94 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Institutional Framework and Sectoral Policies Analysis
Terms of Reference
Background
1.1   AyA has the responsibility for water supply and sanitation services in the country and
has, therefore, established its own policies.
1.2   Nevertheless, the Law authorizes AyA to gradually incorporate into its administration
municipal systems, in accordance with resources availability. Until this occurs, there will be
in the country, water systems managed by municipalities. In addition, other institutions also
play an important role in the sector, such as the Instituto de Fomento Municipal (IFAM),
which assists local governments with concessionary loans and technical assistance, and the
Ministry of Health (MSP).
1.3   The Government has created under the Health Sector, the Water and Sewerage
Subsector, coordinated by AyA. In this way, Govemment is expecting to coordinate all
efforts to support the provision of the water and sewerage services, as well as to improve
productivity.
1.4  In addition, the National Development Plan specifically in the Infrastructure Program
of Support to Strategic Production, in the Health Sector Program and in the Public Sector
Reform Program, considers specific policies for the water and sewerage subsector. These
policies have been communicated to the World Bank by a letter from the Minister of
Planning to the President of the World Bank (Annex 17).
1.5   With these defined policies, it is necessary to establish the adequate organizational
framework and procedures to implement them. Thus, the purpose of this component is to
study and implement the adequate organizational framework and procedures.
General Qbjec
1.6   To define the organizational framework and procedures to be followed by the Water
and Sewerage Subsector.



- 95 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
Specific Objectives
1.7   The specific objectives are: (i) to formalize, within the legal framework, the creation,
under the Health Sector, of the Water and Sewerage Subsector, to be coordinated by AyA;
(ii) to determine the organizational framework and procedures to be followed by the
Subsector in order to apply the new policies given by the Government; (iii) to define the way
in which such mechanisms will be applied and the time period to introduce them in the
GAM; (iv) to define the same for the rest of the country; and (v) to prepare the action plan
to implement the above mentioned activities and execute the actions until the process has
been completed.
Scope of Work
1.8   To propose the formal creation of the Water and Sewerage Subsector with its
organizational framework and procedures, the objectives and sectoral policies will be
analyzed and those of each institution which are part of the Subsector or related to it in any
way, taking into consideration the present legal framework and proposing the relevant
changes if it were the case.
1.9   To define the application of the outlined policies in the GAM, as well as in the rest of
the country, the responsibility of each of the institutions that play a roll in the Subsector will
be analyzed. In addition, the way and time in which AyA will take control of the water and
sewerage systems that are still under local government administration will have to be defined.
1.10 For the previous, AyA's investment plan and the cost recovery policy will be taken
into consideration.
1.11  An action plan to implement the above mentioned activities will be developed,
defining the time and the necessary resources. Finally, the mentioned plan will be executed.
1.12 The study of investment and cost recovery policies will be completed by December
1994 and a follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 1995 and
implemented thereafter.
1.13 The study of the institutional framework for the GAM will be completed by June
1994 and a follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by September 1994 and
implemented thereafter.
1.14 The study for the institutional framework for the sector will be completed by
December 1994 and a follow-up action plan will be submitted to the Bank by March 1995
and implemented thereafter.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -   - - - - - - -_-- - - -  



- 96 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
Organization
1.15 A working group will be established for the execution of these tasLs, integrated by
Government authorities in charge of the Public Sector Reform and of AyA, who will carry
out the analysis and develop the mentioned action plan. The group will receive technical
assistance of an intemational consultant during 7 months. In addition, a local consultant,
expert in legal matters, will be assigned to this group for 2 months to contribute with all
legal matters.



- 97 -
ANNEX21
Page 1 of 5
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
eENVIROMENTAL ASSESSMEN1
INTRODUCTION
l.   This annex presents a summary description of the enviromnental impact assessment of the
Project prepared by AyA. The assessment puts emphasis on: (a) the condition of the study area
and its relation to the water quality of the recipient bodies and (b) the impacts which may take
place during the construction and operation of the proposed project.
2.   The execution of the Project is programmed to be carried out simultaneously with the
preparation of the feasibDity studies and design of the sewerage and treatment infrastructure
defined in the PLAMAGAM project. These studies are expected to be completed by 1996 and
will be financed by IDB/OECD funds.
Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
3.   The SJMA distribution network is composed of 390 km of pipes larger than 150 mm and 760
km of small diameter pipes. There are also 26 storage tanks and 8 pumping stations in
operation. The average water production capacity of the SJMA Is 4.4 m'/s with differences
between the dry and wet season of 10%. This water production capacity is not sufficient to
meet the peak daily demand, which is estimated to reach 4.6 m31s by 1996.
4.   The SJMA sewer system includes 132,000 connections, which serve about 600.000 inhabitants,
representing 74 % of the city's total population. The main sewer system runs parallel to the
natural drainage pattern of the valley and discharge outside the urban area to the Torres and
Tiribi rivers, which flow into the Virilla and ultimately into the Rio Grande de Tarcoles. It
consists of PVC and concrete pipelines with diameters ranging from 300 to 1370 mm and a
total length of 140 km. There are also 7 sewage pumping stations, but there is no sewage
treatment in the SJMA.
5.   Due to the overflow of several rivers and the constant earthquakes, many bridges
communicating networks and sub-collectors with major collectors have been destroyed. These
broken segments in the main sewerage system, the existence of pumping stations out of
operation because of inadequate maintenance and unconnected sector sewerages give rise to a
large number of discharges of untreated sewage within the city limits.
PROPOSED PROJECT
6.   The SJMA Water Supply Component includes the installation of 19 km of primary distribution
pipes (larger than 300 mm) and 57 km of small diameter pipes, the construction of storage
tanks (21,500 m3) and pumping stations and the drilling of four deep exploratory wells in
Campos Norte and Potrerillos. The Operations and Maintenance Component includes the



- 98 -
ANNEX21
Page 2 of 5
rehabilitation of the Orosi pipeline, which supplies water to 50% of the SJMA. This
component amounts to almost 33% of the total project cost.
7.   The SJMA Sewerage Rehabilitation Component includes the expansion and connection of
sewerage in several sectors of the SJMA, the reconstruction of bridges and pumping stations
and the reorganization of the maintenance capacity of AyA. These works consist of:
(a)  The connection to main sewers and the expansion of small sanitary sewer networks
covering 6,500 households, the restoration of six bridge collectors and 7 pumping
stations. The works include reconstruction of bridges, building of access channels to the
pumping station, preliminary treatments (window bars/crushers) and other minor works,
such as protection from overflows, security fences and rain evacuation. Also included is
the renovation of the electro-mechanical equipment of the pumping stations, electric
control systems, lighting of the facilities and, in some cases, purchase of electric
transformers.
(b)  The construction of low-cost sewerage in Los Guido, La Pax and Capri settlements and
the construction of a main sewer which will transport these wastewaters and those from
the town of San Miguel Higuito de Desamparados to the Tiribi collector. It consists of
the construction of 30 km pipelines with diameters ranging from 150 mm to 650 mm.
MAIN ISSUES
Water Pollution
8.   The major surface water pollution problems in the SJMA basin are caused by discharges of
untreated domestic wastewaters, coffee mill wastewaters and agricultural drainage. A large
proportion of these discharges is made with little or no previous treatment and the industries
that treat their wastewaters, do it in a very deficient way.
9.   Some of the rivers, such as the Ocloro, the Maria Aguilar, the Tiribi and the Torres,
experience very poor water quality conditions all year round. Other rivers, such as the
Quebrada Rivera, become anaerobic during the dry season when their flow considerably
decreases. During this season the ecological problems aggravate because of the great amount of
polluting residues discharged by the coffee mills. Based on field data and statistics, it can be
estimated that the SJMA sewer system handles the following flows and that most of the load is
discharged within the urban area:
SOURCE                 FLOW            ORGANIC LOAD
m3/d            kg/d
- Residential areas   9,386.00        2,868.00 (15%)
- Industrial areas    2,830.00        3,083.00 (15%)
- Coffee Mills        3,603.00        14,415.00 (70%)
TOTAL                15,819.00        20,366.00 (100%)



- 99 -
ANNEX21
Page 3 of 5
10.  A "Programa Macro para el Control de la Contaminacidn del Agua en la Cuenca del rio Grande
de Tarcoles" (Macro program for the control of water pollution in the Rio Grande de Tarcoles
basin) has been launched to solve the problem of the industrial and coffee mill wastewater
discharges. Under this program, actions have been agreed by AyA, the Costarrican Coffee
Institute (ICAFE), the Central American Industrial Technological Research Institute (ICAMTI)
and the German Technical Cooperation Institution (GTZ) to undertake improvements in the
industrial processes, to optimize water consumption and to implement a technical and
economical plan for the reduction of the pollution load in the coffee mill industry. At present,
a pilot treatment plant has been constructed and is being operated and monitored by ICAFE.
Human Environment
11. The total population which will be directly affected by the works included in the first
subcomponent (connectors and small network expansion) is estimated to be 32,430 inhabitants
(6,500 connections) distributed throughout the Metropolitan area. The third subcomponent (low
income sewer system in Los Guido and neighboring areas) will now allow service for up to
27.000 inhabitants (5.400 connections), but a maximum of 10.000 families are expected to
reside in the low income housing development project of Los Guido.
12. The population directly affected by the first subcomponent (connectors and small networks
expansion) has an average income corresponding to 'middle' and 'upper' levels, as it exceeds
c40.000 per month (around $350). This figure represents an income level that is almost 100%
more than the current minimum wage established by law, which is 21.210 colones. In the case
of low income sectors, such as Los Guido, La Pax and San Miguel Higuito, covered by the
third subcomponent, more than half of the economically active population of the area is
distributed within the range of 10.001 to 15.000 colones. The relative distribution of income
levels, based on a sample taken at the beginning of 1990, when the minimum wage was 14.900
colones, is:
Income               Population %
(in C)
0 - 5000                4.76
5001 - 10000             33.33
10001 - 15000             50.47
15001 - 20000             9.52
20001 - 25000              0.95
IMPACTS DUE TO THE PROJECT
13.  All wastewaters from the SJMA are now discharged into the rivers without any previous
treatment. During the dry season, the flow of many of these rivers is very low and consists
almost exclusively of raw sewage which is not intercepted by the main sewers. Therefore, the
urban segments and other sections of these rivers have become an unbearable environmental
nuisance and will continue to be so unless this project is carried out.



- 100 -
ANNEX21
Page 4 of 5
14.  The first and second subcomponent (connectors, pumping stations and network expansion)
would reduce the organic load currently being discharged from residential areas within the city
limits by 62%. The improvement of the aesthetic conditions of the surface drainage system in
the SJMA will upgrade the value of the properties located next to these rivers and will allow
their use for recreational purposes.
15.  The proposed works will reduce the sources for gastro-intestinal, skin and ophthalmic
infections. Given the fact that children are usually affected by this kind of illnesses and that
those living next to these polluted rivers and in the Los Guido area usually have a very low
income, the projects benefits will primarily reach the young and poor segments of the
population.
16.  In order to ensure the normal operation of the sewerage network a preventive, corrective and
restoration maintenance program will be executed. Also, a record of attended obstructions will
be kept. The official user register will be reviewed and a strict control on illegal connections
and on the connections between the sanitary sewer system and the drainage system will be
implemented.
17. Taking also into account that the water supply system will be expanded within the SJMA and
that distribution will be improved without increasing total supplied flows, this project will
produce more direct and indirect benefits than negative effects.
18.  The actions required to reduce the negative impacts which could occur during the construction
of the works are simple to put in effect and can be simply added to specifications and
construction procedures. Each work will have its own constructive and security plan which will
minimize these possible negative impacts through actions such as the reforestation of affected
areas, the removal of construction materials and the aesthetic treatment of the site.
19.  The works included in the project, complemented by the programs of supervision of industrial
and coffee mill discharges, will permit the recovery of the rivers and creeks that run within the
urban area. They are also essential for the success of the treatment works planned in the
PLAMAGAM project for the complete recovery of the Rio Grande de Tarcoles river basin.
20.  The gradual recovery of the original ecosystem of the rivers will allow a better operation of
hydroelectricity generation plants. It will also benefit the usage of water for agricultural
purposes and improve the occupational health of those activities which employ untreated river
water
CONCLUSIONS
21.  The positive environmental effects of the proposed project for the inhabitants of the SJMA will
be greater that the negative ones that could be generated during the implementation and
operation of the project. There will be an improvement in the quality of water and sewerage
services, particularly in low income housing settlements, which will result in a general
improvement of the sanitary conditions in the SJMA



- 101 -
ANNEX21
Page 5 of 5
22.  Through project execution, it is expected that AyA's Unit for the operation and maintenance of
the sewerage system will be reorganized and equipped adequately to improve its efficiency and
effectiveness. The definition and execution of preventive, corrective and restoring maintenance
programs will permit the extension of the life span of pipelines, structures, installations and
equipment and the reduction of magnitude and frequency of the negative impacts of the system
failures on the surface waters.



- 102 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Pyment Agreement Between the Ministry of Finance and AyA
on the Refinancing of AyA's Debt
We, Rodolfo Mendez Mata, married one time, a civil engineer holding identity
card No. 1-264-658, resident of San Jose, in his capacity as Minister of Finance, in
accordance with Presidential Decree No. 20841 of November 11, 1991, published in the
Gaceta, No. 224 of November 22, 1991, and Mario Fernandez Ortiz, an adult, of Costa
Rican nationality, civil engineer, domiciled in San Jose, identity card No. 1-223-394, in his
capacity as Executive President with unlimited powers of attorney in the courts and outside
for [the Instituto Costarricense de) Acueductos y Alcantarillados (Costa Rican Water and
Sewerage Institute), as registered in the Public Register, Individuals Section, Volume 87,
p.99, entry 290, hereby agree to enter into this payment agreement, which shall be governed
by the following provisions.
WHEREAS
1.    The Ministry of Finance ("the Ministry"), as a result of the guarantees granted in
accordance with Law No. 6426 of May 22, 1980, published in the Gaceta, No. 109 of June
10, 1990, temporarily assumed responsibility for payments due by Acueductos y
Alcantarillados, ("AyA" or "the Institute") to the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) in 1991 and
1992;
2.    AyA has fallen behind in its obligations to the Ministry, in accordance with the
payment agreement signed on December 6, 1988 between both institutions (Agreement No.
1),
IT IS NOW HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Both contracting parties agree to enter into this payment agreement, in accordance with the
following articles.
Article 1.   It is hereby determined that the Ministry has paid the IBRD and the CDC, in
virtue of sums owed by AyA in 1991 and 1992, a total of US$10,319,297.68, as shown in
Annex No. 2.



- 103 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
Article 2.   An integral part of this agreement are the unpaid amounts owed by AyA to the
Ministry, as a result of the agreement of December 6, 1988, the balance of which at
December 31, 1992 is US$23,102,351.04, as shown in Annex No. 4. This amount is the
remaining balance after subtracting the invoices in respect of floating debt owed by the
Ministry to AyA as of December 1991, in accordance with Article 18 of Law 7131. This
arrangement may continue to be used as long as reciprocal debts exist.
Article 3.   With the Ministry's approval, AyA agrees to repay the debt under the
following conditions.
(a)   Amount: US$33,421,648.72, as shown in Annex No. 1;
(b)   Term: The debt shall be repaid within a term of 15 years, including four
years of grace. Repayments of the principal shall begin on March 30, 1997 and end on
December 30, 2007, as shown in Annex No. 5 hereto;
(c)   Interest: AyA agrees to pay an interest of 1 % per annum on the debt covered
by this agreement. Interest shall begin to accrue as of the effectiveness date of this
agreement and shall be calculated on the amounts owed to the Ministry based on a 360-day
year. Payments of interest shall begin on March 30, 1993 and end on December 30, 2007,
as shown in Annex No. 5 hereto;
(d)   Currency: The debt is denominated in US dollars. The amount due shall be
paid in the equivalent of Costa Rican colones calculated at the reference selling exchange rate
provided by the BCCR for the dates on which AyA makes the payments to the Ministry.
The debt may be converted into Costa Rican colones, provided this is mutually agreeable to
both parties;
(e)   Payments: The debt shall be paid in consecutive quarterly payments, insofar
as possible in equal amounts, in accordance with the payment schedule shown in Annex No.
5.
Article 4.   AyA agrees to assume responsibility for all its debt service with the CDC and
IBRD as of 1993. It shall also pay the Ministry in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Article 5.   AyA shall notify the Public Credit Department within the Ministry of Finance
of the payments it makes pursuant hereto and shall send a copy of the deposit receipts so that
the current balances can be determined.
Article 6.   As a guarantee of the timely payment by AyA to the Ministry, the latter is
hereby empowered, in the event that AyA falls behind on the payment of any of its
obligations, to withhold budget allocations to the Institute, until such time as it catches up on
its payments.



- 104 -
ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 3
Article 7.   The Controller General of the Republic shall not approve the AyA budget for
each year of the life of this agreement unless it includes the debt service AyA owes to both
its external (IBRD and CDC) as well as internal (Government) creditors. Nevertheless, if
AyA finds itself unable to adjust its rates, preventing it from making the payments on such
debts, it shall be empowered to suspend service payments on those debts until the situation is
corrected.
Article 8.   This agreement may be amended by mutual agreement between the parties,
and any alteration shall be made via an addendum or an exchange of correspondence
specifying the acceptance of both parties.
Article 9.   This agreement shall enter into force on the date of its counter-signature by the
Controller General of the Republic.
In faith whereof, this agreement is signed in two original copies in the city of
San Jose, on October 30, 1992.
/s/ Rodolfo Mendez Mata         Mario Femandez Ortiz
Ministry of Finance                  Executive President
Costa Rican Water and Sewerage Institute
(Translated from Spanish original)






- 105 -
ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
List of Documents and Data Available in Proiect Files
1.    Current Legislation.
2.    Costa Rica - Evaluaci6n Nacional del Decenio Internacional del Abastecimiento de Agua
Potable y del Saneamiento 1981-1990, AyA, 1990.
3.    Anuario 1989, AyA, April 1990.
4.    PLAMAGAM - Plan Maestro de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable de la Gran Area
Metropolitana, Informe Final - Resumen Ejecutivo, Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd., January
1990.
5.    PLAMAGAM - Plan Maestro de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable de la Gran Area
Metropolitana, Informe Final, Tomo 1, Resumen Ejecutivo, Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd.,
January 1990.
6.    Memoria Tecnica del Proyecto de Tanques y Redes del Acueducto Metropolitano de San Jose,
Anexo 1-2, AyA.
7.    PLAMAGAM - Plan Maestro de Sanearniento y Alcantarillado Sanitario de la Gran Area
Metropolitana, Informe Final, Tomo 1, Resumen Ejecutivo, Tahal Consulting Engineers,
Ltd., January 1990.
8.    Segundo Proyecto de Agua Potable Para Costa Rica, BIRF - AyA, Direccion Ingenieria,
January 1992.
9.    Segundo Proyecto de Agua Potable Para Costa Rica, BIRF - AyA, May 1992.
10.   PLAMAGAM - Plan Maestro de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable de la Gran Area
Metropolitana, Proyecto de Tanques, Redes y Medidores del Acueducto Metropolitano Obras
a Financiar con el Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica (BCIE), AyA, April
1991.
11.   Operacion de Cr6dito con el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (CR-1 17), Resumen del
Programa, AyA, April 1991.
12.   Perfil Proyecto de Perforaci6n de Cuatro Pozos de Investigaci6n y Producci6n Campos de
Pozos Norte y Potrerillos, Terminos de Referencia, March 1992.



- 106 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 2
13.   Informe Final del Estudio de Optimizaci6n de Sistemas del Acueducto de Coronado,
Volumen 1, Direcci6n de Operaciones, Departamento de Optimizaci6n de Sistemas, AyA,
May 1987.
14.   Composici6n Estimada de las Perdidas en los Sistemas Administrados por el Instituto
Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados, AyA, 1990.
15.   Estados Financieros Auditados de 1989 y 1990, Informe de Auditores Independientes, Herrero
Villalta Asociados, November 1991.
16.   Reporte de Rendimiento de la Tarifa Actual, AyA, June 1991.
17.   Propuesta Tarifaria para el Servicio de Acueducto y Alcantarillado, Divisi6n de Analisis
Financiero - Comercial, AyA, December 1991.
18.   Decreto de autorizacion de incremento de tarifas, SNE, May 1992.
19.   Concurso Internacional de Precalificacion de Empresas Consultoras para la Elaboraci6n de los
Disefios Finales del Proyecto de Saneamiento y Alcantarillado Sanitario para la Gran Area
Metropolitana, Direccion de Ingenierfa, Divisi6n de Estudios y Proyectos, AyA, February
1992.
20.   Estudio de Impacto Ambiental del Proyecto Agua y Sanearniento para el Area Metropolitana,
Volumenes Nos. 1 y 2, AyA, Direcci6n de Ingenierfa, May 1992.
21.   Borrador del Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica entre la Organizacion Panamericana de la Salud
(PAHO) y AyA, February 1993.
22.   AyA's Performance Plan, 1993-2001, March 1993.
23.   Manual de Organizaci6n y Funciones de la Oficina de Planificaci6n, AyA, February 1993.
24.   Acuerdo de Pago entre el Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados y el
Ministerio de Hacienda, Ministerio de Hacienda, October 1992.
25.    Maps of the SJMA water and sewerage systems.



IBRD 2A34
:,.T?V 6
CU\EtI_?- CUCUERIVERIVR
CUERIV 9
'9,>...   -                    .,                              CUL,>_                      /                                     SECOND WATER 5UPPLY ANDERIV
UERIV 10                   I/
CUTE                                   /                             LojERIV                  EEErI:1\      ''                    6 SEEAE$RJC
CUE  G                                                                                     , \S                                                                        RK
E,ca                                                                                                                                                   CL /  y  /  >  =    REMAEILITATION O *I
CUEMAG 3                                                 2 \'A FIORITA    | <, tUETIR[:       <                                           *    REHA IUTAn  OF PUMPING STATIONS
.'T7 1 .' ' t < ^/ S w ~~~~~~~CUEMA                                                    A.OA                                                        /-*ISTLAIO5FSEODR
Escoos,                                                                                                                                 C,T,,AG 19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L)MG A
COSTA RICA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND
BRIDGf. 5                                          ~~~SEWER-AGE PROJECT
SJMA REHABILITATION SEWERAGE WORKS
REI4ABILITATION AND/ORt INTERCONNECTION
OF SEWAGE COLLECTORS
REHABILITATION OF BRIDGES
ORTTS                                                                          REHARILTATION Of PUMPING STATIONS
*  .                                                                                                                            '-.-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTALLATION Of SECONDARY
NICARAGUA-.EXISTING COLLECTORS
tS..                                                                                                                                                        MAN TRET
_it _  __ __  \_ X_/  $ a t  LA PAX--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-:ST RiA                           -  ?   =-     -= ,,  o soso og MAAA  O.5Ao. voEEo
0     30 ,00I0   560  2,600
PAClFIC OCEAN ,           r -                                                                                                                      LOS GUIDO                                  M5
_4406                     *4'4                      . 5                                                                        58M02                   @4't          DfCMR 






*e.fl                            *40 ,,! V,l:                    Se-fl,         ~        #>       ^.05                                          CUERIV   S         Wo L                   - -         2 s                                             IBRD 24
UtERIV 6
ERIV 1       4j CjE1      V    CE~~.~   RIV  3                                                                                         ____          -*2
Son vicente            EV                               .L'CEI 4
,'   CUERIV           __~~~~UERV 
2-~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~
\ - ,                                                         SCERISPl                                                                                    AND
CUE G
---0\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXI /OFSTING COLLECTORS
W a~~~~Codibb.o g-   A-,, <Nl:o5FODR
\g  1   ros  f  0  <  ' 8t LA PAX .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  INTERNATIONAL ROUNGARIES s
......                                                                                                                                                                               4                          CUE~~~...e..AG w,f9
t-~    (    jOSTA RICAW                             ; .a- /RMAO I/,I CIEMOiS. 1.To
T.r,                                                                                  MA(                                                                        CUEMAG 360    I,000    l.X0    2,000
*   -  2._S? PANtA   _ S  .                                 >    /                        .     . \                                                                                   METEFffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETR
PACIFIC OCtAN                     H   X                                                                             /          /                                    VCLOS GUIDO
.                                            s-or                             @-@oo                /           *H'                               B.        \                    $4 os                          $4 o-01'  Cr0
TIR                                                                                                                         '                                ' M.CWAIC






ISRD 243D
X^lolwelr         :j             t ?                     \ ~H E  4DIA,          
JUECOD SATPR SUVPAOLD                                                                                  2 D                       ' \  \                                    CA
A MESETA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~OT
=      DISTRNAUTIONMAIS BOUNDARIES, , 
PIPES TO BE INSTALLED   \                      \ / M       \             \         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS UA
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PLOAGETANK*O B OSRCE     
.    EXISTING WELLS                             S\/  >          _XPEIOIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pZ)_ 
*~~~~~~~~~~~PfT PUPNUTTINLOBARHUIAEDS/ >                                                      \                                         :        ;  
SECOND WATERN  SUPPLYN TO BECNTRCETAGOZX\      A  MGE                                                                                                      $2  
AN     SEWEROVINE PROUNARECT                                                         f                          f\F                         -                    K    OT  I
- _DISTERNATIONALUDUNDARIES   (A/   J   SANSOUEI                                                                                   . =    -.
;  ~       ~ ~~~~ ?       2    3        .      SKroILOME  U.PANt






_~oo'  ,o                       ,4~ ,U/                                                                                           IBRD 243
COCO SLAJV       S3"       o,g
3:* N,cora             NI C A RAG U A                          \ -                     HONDURASo
-V3             53W                         * 5oc't,(.        -        *a                                             11.             NIAAU
,  HUETAR NORT                          ,FXuo HON
So,,[                                                            Sea
M~~~~~9SNRL <S                                                  _mij  MM_
COSHUETAR NORIGCA                                                                    \ 10w
8~~10,    sli5.                                                                   S.C. t 
/   PU AREN          nIgJU odAco
COSTA       U RICA2
SECOND WATER SUPPLY X  ~jc C >
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT oc  
-   PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY                                                                     \>        U8RENgS-t
9        ~~~~ ~SELECTED ROIADS  .>
-.-*-----'-.* RAItRO,ADS                                               .                            Ct   ~>                   .-
~-~-  RIVERS. -                                                                            GttP
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d A^KKc"                  .. m                               >             t P    
COSATIOA RCAPIA
3    PROVINCE CAPITALSR
Po CITIE AND TOWNS                                                                                     PUN
,°ROVINCE 8CIUNDARIE5S,Jr foooC
REGION OtDARIES                                                                        Ph.
OINTERNATIN  OUNDARIES                                                                                                   T  -- Ca,
INTERNATONX SOL4DARIES0                                2,0       *,          0Milos..       
*_i_25_"-i_  W                                   O              ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~           ~ ~~50  100 KiI...t.s  \; Y Bofo
_v_*C  i_-~~~~~~~~~~~~-*^~~~~~                                                         J      ;}) ~~~~~~~C17arco Azu f
or                                 85-                                  83o
RU  85                               86                                  S3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iaW  "



