Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3625-CR
Loan Agreement
(Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
Dated July 28, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3625-CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
(C)
the Bank has received a letter from the Guarantor dated October 23, 1992 
(Policy Statement) describing the Guarantor's objectives and policies in respect of 
the water supply and
sanitation sector; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Account Bank" means a bank, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
duly established under the laws of the Guarantor;
(b)
"Project Investment Plan" means any of the annual investment plans 
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) (iii) of this 
Agreement and which plan has been
approved by the Bank;
(c)
"GAM" means the Great Metropolitan Area of San Jose, the area comprising 
the Municipalities of San Jose, Alajuela, Cartago and Heredia;
(d)
"Legislation" means the Guarantor's Law 2726 (Ley Constitutiva del 
Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados) dated April 14, 1961 and 
published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette on April 20, 1961 and any other legal 
norms, including without limitation bylaws, concerned with the operations of the 
Borrower, all as amended from time to time;
(e)
"Orosi Pipeline" means the water pipeline which brings water to the SJMA 
(as hereinafter defined), from the river Macho catchment;
(f)
"PAHO" means the Panamerican Health Organization, a United Nations' 
specialized agency for public health;
(g)
"PAHO Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PAHO pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Performance Plan" means the Borrower's overall business plan for the 
period 1993-2001 as such plan is attached to the Borrower's letter PRE-93-114 to the 
Bank dated February 17, 1993;
(i)
"Planning Department" means the Borrower's Departamento de Planificacion;
 
(j)
"Prior Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
Borrower dated January 14, 1981 (Loan 1935-CR);
(k)
"Secretariat" means the secretariat within the Technical Committee (as 
hereinafter defined) as provided in the Borrower's letter to the Bank PRE-93-113 dated 
February 17, 1993, and assigned with the responsibility of coordinating the 
implementation of Part B of the Project with other organizational units of the 
Borrower and to assess such implementation through a management information system;
Page  3
(l)
"SJMA" means the San Jose Metropolitan Area;
 
(m)
"SNE" means Servicio Nacional de Electricidad, the regulatory agency for 
public services established by the Guarantor's Law 258 dated August 14, 1941 and 
published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette on August 18, 1941 as amended from time 
to time;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Tariff Adjustment Program" means the program of monthly adjustments of 
the Borrower's water and sewerage tariffs as provided in SNE's resolution dated April 
28, 1992 and published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette dated May 19, 1992; and
(p)
"Technical Committee" means the Borrower's committee established for 
purposes of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of Part B of the Project as 
provided in the Borrower's letter to the Bank PRE-92-718 dated October 29, 1992.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty six million dollars 
($26,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Account Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Page  4
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, with the
participation of the Guarantor in respect of Part A.1, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with sound public utility, environmental, engineering, 
financial, economic and administrative standards and practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to any other provision in this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
implementation program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and each Project 
Investment Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, during the execution of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) for its review and comments, the 
Borrower's financial projections, in such form, scope and detail as the Bank may 
Page  5
reasonably request, for the then following six years; (ii) its overall investment 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the then following six years including, for the 
upcoming year, a detail of each specific project and its respective implementation 
schedule and financing; and (iii) for its review and approval, a Project investment 
plan for the then upcoming year covering in detail the implementation and cost 
schedule in respect of each Part of the Project; and
(b)
not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a progress report, of such scope and detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and 
the Performance Plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain an organizational structure for 
the efficient implementation and supervision of the Project, with adequate staff and 
budget, all to be satisfactory to the Bank; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any change 
in its organizational structure or functions; (c) without limitation or restriction to 
paragraph (a) above, operate and
maintain its Planning Department with functions, structure and staff satisfactory to 
the Bank and provide such department with adequate resources to perform its functions; 
and (d) without limitation or restriction to paragraph (a) above, operate and maintain 
the Technical Committee and the Secretariat with functions, structure and staff 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall retain PAHO, under an agreement satisfactory to 
the Bank, for purposes of receiving technical assistance in relation to Parts A and B 
of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, waiving, abrogating, 
suspending, assigning or failing to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. Without limitation to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, starting in 1994, hold annual reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based 
on the reports referred to in Section 3.03(b) of this Agreement and to focus, inter 
alia, on the following: (i) evaluation of the progress in the execution, and in 
achievement of the objectives, of the Project by focusing on the Borrower's compliance 
with the obligations of this Agreement and by measuring such progress against 
performance targets satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) implementation of the Borrower's 
overall investment plan and its financing; (iii) discussion of the proposed overall 
investment plan and the Project investment plan for the upcoming year; (iv) evaluation 
of the adequacy of the Borrower's water and sewerage tariffs, and the need and 
justification for increases in such tariffs; (v) any changes in Project implementation 
that may be necessary; and (vi) evaluation of the management and coordination of the 
Project;
(b)
in respect of the annual review to be held in 1996 (mid term review), the 
Borrower shall review with the Bank, in addition to the matters referred to in (a) 
above: (i) progress in the achievement of the objectives of the Policy Statement 
including the implementation of the regulatory framework and policies related to the 
water sector; and (ii) progress in the implementation of the plan referred to under 
Section 7.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c)
without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this 
Agreement, if, as a result of any of the above annual reviews, progress in the 
execution, or in the achievement of the objectives, of the Project, is not 
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower shall promptly take all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to achieve such objectives or to efficiently implement the 
Project; and
(d)
based on the above annual reviews the Borrower, if the Bank shall so 
recommend, shall prepare and submit to the SNE, or other competent authority, requests 
for adjustments of the structure or levels of its water and sewerage tariffs, such 
requests to be made under terms and conditions, and within a period of time, 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prior to approving or making any commitment in 
Page  6
respect of a Major Investment, furnish to the Bank, evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the investment in
question would have no adverse effect on the compliance by the Borrower with any of 
the provisions in this Agreement.  For purposes of this Section, "Major Investment" 
shall mean any investment, whether in works, goods or services, which: (a) has a total 
cost in excess of $500,000 equivalent; (b) is not included in any of the Borrower's 
overall investment plans submitted to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; and (c) is not to be financed through grants received or to be received by 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound public utility, administrative, financial and operational 
practices under the
supervision of managers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
operational  practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
Page  7
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1992, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 14%, for fiscal years 
1993 through 1995, 20%, for fiscal year 1996, and 30%, for fiscal year 1997 and 
thereafter, of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred for that year.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal years covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, reductions in the 
level of total working expenses, adjustments of the structure or levels of its water 
and sewerage tariffs or
requests for such adjustments, if recommended by the Bank pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.06 (d) of this Agreement) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
 
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
Page  8
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the 
next fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
 
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1992, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 
0.55 for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 and 0.5 for fiscal year 1995 and thereafter.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, reductions in the total level of working expenses, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its water and sewerage tariffs or
requests for such adjustments, if recommended by the Bank pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.06 (d) of this Agreement) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes but excluding interest and other charges 
on debt.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1992, a ratio of total personnel expenses to total operating expenses not higher than 
0.58 for fiscal years 1993 through 1996, 0.57 for fiscal year 1997 and 0.56 for fiscal 
year 1998 and thereafter.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
Page  9
its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" has the same meaning as in 
Section 5.03 
(d) (i) of this Agreement.
 
(ii)
The term "total personnel expenses" means all expenses related to 
labor 
including salaries, social security, and other fringe 
benefits.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such 
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 2.4 times the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on 
all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower's water and sewerage 
tariffs in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect 
during the twelve-month period to 
which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" has the same meaning as in 
Section 5.02 
(d) (ii) of this Agreement.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements"  has the same meaning as in 
Section 5.02 
(d) (vi) of this Agreement.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment to the Prior
Loan Agreement
Page  10
Section 6.01.  The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of the 
text of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 thereof and the substitution therefor of the text of 
Sections 5.02 through 5.05 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the PAHO Agreement shall have been terminated without the Bank's consent;
 
(b)
by December 31, 1994, the Bank shall have not received: (i) evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Guarantor has enacted new legislation, and 
regulations related thereto,
adopting a comprehensive regulatory framework for public services in Costa Rica, all 
satisfactory to the Bank, and that such legislation and regulations are in full force 
and effect; and (ii) a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for restructuring SNE, or the 
respective new regulatory agency if so the case, in accordance with its new functions, 
pursuant to the above legislation and regulations;
(c)
the plan referred to in the above paragraph (b) (ii), or any part 
thereof, shall have not been implemented in accordance with its terms and timetable;
(d)
SNE, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have not reviewed and 
granted approval, in a timely manner, to any of the tariff adjustments requested by 
the Borrower, pursuant to Section 3.06 (d) of this Agreement, in order to enable the 
Borrower to meet the requirements set forth in Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.05 of this 
Agreement. For purposes of this paragraph "timely manner" shall mean that the 
respective review and approval should be granted within a period not to exceed seventy 
five days after the publication in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (La Gaceta) of the 
Borrower's application in question or, in case the referred publication shall cease to 
be applicable, after the Borrower's application in question has been submitted to SNE 
or the respective authority having jurisdiction; and
(e)
the Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has employed for its Planning Department a coordinator of 
the Project and three planners in charge of the physical planning, short-term planning 
and long-term planning all with functions, qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(b)
The PAHO Agreement has entered into force.
 
(c)
The Tariff Adjustment Program has been implemented in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower has submitted to the Bank standard bidding documents, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be utilized for the procurement of goods and works under 
the Project.
Section 8.02. The date October 27, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Page  11
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Executive President (Presidente Ejecutivo) of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Edificio La Llacuna
Avenida Central, Calle Quinta
San Jose, Costa Rica
Apartado 5120-1000
Telex:
2724 San Jose,
Costa Rica
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y
   ALCANTARILLADOS
By /s/ Mario Fernandez Ortiz
Authorized Representative
Page  12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               6,000,000        100%
    services and
    training
(2) Material and              15,000,000        65%
    equipment
(3) Civil works                2,000,000        30%
(4) Unallocated                3,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                26,000,000
                              ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$300,000, may be made in respect of technical assistance under Parts A and B.2 of the 
Project on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor and the Borrower in: 
(a) improving the institutional framework for the provision of water and sewerage 
services in Costa Rica, including the promotion of private sector participation, and 
the development and implementation of sound sectoral policies; (b) increasing the 
operational efficiency, and achieving and consolidating the financial viability, of 
the Borrower; and (c) improving the operation of the existing water supply system and 
sewerage service in SJMA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Formulation and implementation of: (a) sectoral policies, in particular sound 
investment and cost recovery policies; and (b) an improved institutional framework for 
the provision of water and
sewerage services in Costa Rica.
2.
Improvement of the Borrower's corporate planning, including: (a) the design and 
implementation of a budgetary process with programmatic content; and (b) the design 
and implementation of a long term corporate plan.
3.
Improvement of the Borrower's financial management, including: (a) the design 
and implementation of an integrated accounting system; (b) the reform of the water 
tariff structure; and (c) the design and implementation of sewerage rates to be 
applied in SJMA and other urban areas.
Page  13
4.
A program to increase decentralization and private sector participation in the 
provision of water supply and sewerage services by the Borrower through the 
formulation and implementation of a
decentralization model and a model for private sector participation including training 
activities related thereto.
Part B:
Unaccounted-for-water Reduction Program
 
1.
Investments related to water metering, including installation of approximately 
86,300 meters, replacement of approximately 25,000 meters, repair of approximately 
13,000 meters and installation of macrometers to control water production in SJMA.
2.
Design and implementation, within the Borrower's organization, of: (a) a 
complete commercial system, including its linkage to the accounting system; (b) a 
commercial management information system; and (c) special procedures for the control 
of major consumers.
3.
Updating of consumers cadastre, including the incorporation of illegal water 
connections, and the design and implementation of a pipes cadastre.
4.
Design and implementation of an operational control system to improve the 
efficiency of the SJMA water supply system.
5.
Replacement of approximately 8,000 water pipe connections in SJMA.
 
Part C:
SJMA Water Supply and Distribution System
 
1.
Installation and operation of approximately 19 km of primary distribution pipes 
and approximately 57 km of small diameter pipes in the water distribution system of 
SJMA.
2.
Construction of ten storage tanks to be located in Curridabat, San Isidro, Belo 
Horizonte, San Juan de Dios, Pizote, Mata de Platano, San Pablo (2) and Coronado (2).
3.
Construction of production facilities consisting of two wells in Potrerillos and 
two wells in Zona Norte.
4.
Construction of four water pumping stations.
 
5.
Technical assistance for the final engineering designs and supervision of the 
above mentioned works.
Part D:
SJMA Rehabilitation Sewerage Works
 
1.
Rehabilitation, reconstruction and/or interconnection of sewage collectors to 
incorporate approximately 6,500 water connections into the system.
2.
Installation of approximately 27 km of secondary sewage collectors to improve 
the environmental conditions of the neighborhoods of Los Guidos and La Pax.
3.
Rehabilitation of seven sewerage pumping stations. 
 
4.
Technical assistance for the final engineering designs and supervision of the 
above mentioned works.
Part E:
Operations and Maintenance
 
1.
Support the operation and maintenance of sewerage systems.
 
2.
(a)
Carrying out of a study on the vulnerability of the Orosi Pipeline to 
natural hazards; and (b) the provision of maintenance to the Orosi Pipeline, including 
acquisition of
equipment related thereto.
                               * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1999.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
February 1, 1998                            
  610,000
August 1, 1998                              
  635,000
February 1, 1999                            
  655,000
August 1, 1999                              
  680,000
February 1, 2000                            
  705,000
August 1, 2000                              
  735,000
February 1, 2001                            
  760,000
August 1, 2001                              
  790,000
February 1, 2002                            
  820,000
August 1, 2002                              
  850,000
February 1, 2003                            
  880,000
August 1, 2003                              
  910,000
February 1, 2004                            
  945,000
August 1, 2004                              
  980,000
February 1, 2005                          
1,020,000
August 1, 2005                            
1,055,000
February 1, 2006                          
1,095,000
August 1, 2006                            
1,135,000
February 1, 2007                          
1,180,000
August 1, 2007                            
1,220,000
February 1, 2008                          
1,265,000
August 1, 2008                            
1,315,000
February 1, 2009                          
1,365,000
August 1, 2009                            
1,415,000
February 1, 2010                          
1,465,000
August 1, 2010                            
1,515,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                  
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 
0.88
more than 15 years
Page  15
before maturity
More than 15 years before                  
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred 
to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original 
bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week 
of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be 
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods or civil works shall be grouped 
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for goods and 
US$1,000,000 or more for works.
Part B:
Preference for Regional Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to bids offering goods described in 
the accompanying specification which are manufactured to a substantial extent in any 
country, including Costa Rica, which is a party to the Mercado Comun Centroamericano, 
the common market created by the General Treaty for Central American Economic 
Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El 
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule, the following definitions shall 
apply:
(a)
(i)
the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Costa Rica, of 
the CACM, for goods manufactured or processed 
in such territories and for 
which the bidders shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the entity or 
agency inviting bids 
that the manufacturing or processing cost of such goods 
include a 
value added in such territories equal to at least 20% of the 
ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(ii)
the term "non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer 
established in the territories of member countries, 
including Costa Rica, of 
the CACM, for goods manufactured or processed 
in such territories, other than 
any such bid classified as a Qualified 
CACM Bid; and
(iii)
the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is neither a Qualified 
CACM Bid or 
a Non-Qualified CACM Bid.
 
2.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted and shall set forth the information required to 
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.
3.
Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of 
Page  16
imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
4.
Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared on the basis of 
their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following 
groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-qualified CACM Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.
All bids in each group will be first compared among themselves, to determine the 
lowest evaluated bid in each such group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will 
then be compared
with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated Qualified CACM 
Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will be selected for purpose of award.
7.
If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above is a Foreign Bid, 
all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid 
as determined under paragraph 6 above. For the purposes of this comparison only, each 
Foreign Bid will be compared on the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of entry) 
price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 above, plus an amount 
equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation 
of goods offered in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified CACM Bid; or 
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Qualified CACM Bid is the 
lowest evaluated bid in such comparison, it shall be selected for the purpose of 
award; otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under paragraph 6 
above shall be so selected.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, 
as well as goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 for civil works and $1,000,000 for goods, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of this Agreement and the Guidelines in 
respect of procurement of goods and works:
1.
Pursuant to Part A of this Section:
 
(a)
In respect of the procurement of works, bids shall not be rejected on the 
grounds that they fall outside a pre-determined bracket.
(b)
In respect of the procurement of works and goods, bid securities issued 
by foreign sureties shall be admissible without the endorsement, counter-guarantee or 
other participation by any Costa Rican bank, the National Insurance Agency (Instituto 
Nacional de Seguros) of Costa Rica or other person or entity.
2.
Pursuant to Parts A and C of this Section, bidding procedures shall provide for 
suitable mechanisms, acceptable to the Bank, for price adjustments reflecting 
increased costs of all contractors and suppliers.
Part E:
Standard Bidding Documents
 
Standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized for the 
procurement of goods and works whether international competitive bidding applies or 
not.
Part F:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
Page  17
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more and with respect to each contract for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are 
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  18
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
Page  19
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
I.
Part A of the Project
 
A.
Part A.1 of the Project
 
1.
The Borrower, jointly with the Guarantor, shall: (a) carry out a study, not 
later than December 31, 1994, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
to evaluate the investment and cost recovery policies for the water supply and 
sewerage sector; (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the results 
and recommendations of such study and exchange views with the Borrower and the 
Guarantor; (c) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than March 31, 1995, an 
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the results and recommendations of 
such study and the Bank's comments thereon; and (d) implement such action plan in a 
manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower, jointly with the Guarantor, shall: (a) carry out, not later than 
June 30, 1994, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study to 
evaluate the institutional
framework in respect of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in the 
GAM; (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the results and 
recommendations of such study and exchange views thereon with the Borrower and the 
Guarantor; (c) not later than September 30, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank an 
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the results and
recommendations of such study and the Bank's comments thereon; and (d) implement such 
action plan in a manner, and under a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower, jointly with the Guarantor, shall: (a) carry out a study, not 
later than December 31, 1994, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
to evaluate the institutional framework in respect of the provision of water supply 
and sewerage services in Costa Rica (except for the GAM); (b) afford the Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to review the results and recommendations of such study and 
exchange views thereon with the Borrower and the Guarantor; (c) prepare and furnish to 
the Bank not later than March 31, 1995, an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
based on the results and recommendations of such study and the Bank's comments 
thereon; and (d) implement such action plan in a manner, and under a timetable, 
satisfactory to the Bank.
B.
Part A.3 of the Project
 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1994, complete the design of an 
integrated financial, budgetary and cost-accounting system; (b) not later than 
September 30, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for implementing the above system; and (c) implement such action plan in a manner, and 
under a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
C.
Part A.4 of the Project
 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1994, complete the design of a 
model, acceptable to the Bank, to decentralize selected activities related to the 
provision of water supply and sewerage services including areas and functions to be 
contracted out with the private sector; (b) not later than September 30, 1994, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the 
above model, such plan to include the contracting out of all areas and functions 
identified in the above model by not later than June 30, 1996; and (c) implement such 
action plan in a manner, and under a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
II.
Part B of the Project
 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1994, complete the design of a 
comprehensive commercial system; (b) not later than September 30, 1994, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the above system; and (c) implement such 
Page  20
action plan in a manner, and under a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
III.
Part E of the Project
 
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the study referred to under Part E.2 (a) of 
the Project not later than December 31, 1994; (b) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to review the results and recommendations of such study and exchange views 
thereon with the Borrower; (c) based on the results and recommendations of the above 
study and the Bank's comments thereon, prepare and present to the Bank, not later than 
June 30, 1995, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of protecting the Orosi 
Pipeline, such plan to include the details of the organizational and engineering 
measures required therefor; and (c) implement the above action plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
IV.
Operational Ratios
 
1.
The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to achieve the ratios set forth 
below:
(a)
Average Collection Period. Balance of accounts receivable for water and 
sewerage less provision for bad debt at the end of the year divided by the equivalent 
of one month of sales
revenues for water and sewerage (total sales revenues divided by 12).
Fiscal Year       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 (and thereafter)
Time (months)      2.5  2.5    2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
(b)
Unaccounted-for-water (UFW) Ratio. Ratio of water unaccounted-for (not 
sold) to water produced.
Fiscal Year       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 (and thereafter)
UFW ratio (%)      44    39    34    29    28    28    28
(c)
Metered Water Connections/Water Connections Ratio. Ratio of metered water 
connections to total water connections.
Fiscal Year       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 (and thereafter)
Ratio (%)          79    91    96    99    99    99    99
(d)
Metered Water Produced. Ratio of volume of metered water produced to 
total volume of water produced in SJMA.
Fiscal Year             1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 (and thereafter)
Ratio (%)                50    60    80    100   100   100
(e)
Employees per water connections (Staff Productivity Index - SPI). Ratio 
of number of employees per thousand water connections (in thousands).
Fiscal Year       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 (and thereafter)
SPI                8.2   7.8   7.5   7.2   7.0   6.8   6.6
The above ratios shall be calculated based on assumptions and a methodology 
satisfactory to the Bank.
