                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29293

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCPD-3625S CPL-36250)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$26.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

             INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO
                                              COSTA RICA

                                                FOR THE

                       SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                              June 25, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Costa Rican Colon
                                  Colon 1.00 = US$ 0.002294386
                                    US$ 1.00 = Colon 435.75

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                October 1    September 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARESEP  Regulatory Authority of Public Services (Autoridad Reguladora de los Servicios
        Publicos)
ASADAS  Aqueduct and Sewer Service Administrative Associations (Asociaciones
        Administradoras de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Sanitarios)
ASAPS   Water and Sanitation Sectoral Analysis (Analisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y
        Saneamiento)
AyA     Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (Comites Administradores de
        Acueductos Rurales)
CAARS   Rural Aqueduct Administrative Committees (Comites Administradores de Acueductos
        Rurales)
CAI     Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
ID      Institutional Development
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
MINAE   Ministry of Environment and Energy (Ministerio del Ambiente y Energia)
MS      Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud
OCS     Operational Core Services
PAHO    Pan American Health Organization
PR      President's Report
PSP     Private Sector Participation
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAPS    Water and Sanitation System (Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento)
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SCI     Integrated Business System (Sistema Comercial Integrado)
SIFS    Integrated Financial and Supply System (Sistema Integrado Financiero y Suministros)
SJMA    San Jose Metropolitan Area
SNE     National Electricity Service (Servicio Nacional de Electricidad)
TT      Task Team
UFW     Unaccounted-for-Water
WPA     Work Program Agreement

                              Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                           Country Director      Jane Armitage
                             Sector Manager      Danny Leipziger
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Menahem Libhaber

                                        COSTA RICA
                                    CR WATER SUPPLY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          36
Annex 9. Letter on Government Policy to the Sector                               53
Annex 10. Maps                                                                   55

Project ID: P006941                                                  Project Name: CR WATER SUPPLY
Team Leader: Menahem Libhaber                                        TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CR WATER SUPPLY                                          L/C/TF Number: SCPD-3625S; CPL-36250
   Country/Department: COSTA RICA                                                         Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (75%); Sewerage (15%); Central government
                            administration (10%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1988                                     Effective: 07/27/1993                10/27/1994
     Appraisal: 07/15/1992                                         MTR:                             10/10/1997
      Approval: 06/17/1993                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          INSTITUTO DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO/AYA
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid S. Husain
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Ediberto Segura
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Menahem Libhaber                               Augusta Dianderas
ICR Primary Author:             Menahem Libhaber; Herbert
                                Farrer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The three objectives established in the SAR [1] and in the Loan Agreement [2] were: (i) to help
the government and the Costa Rican Institute of Water Supply and Sewerage (AyA) to improve
the institutional framework for the provision of water and sewerage services in the country,
including promotion of private sector participation, and to develop and implement sound sector
policies; (ii) to support AyA in carrying out an institutional and financial restructuring, to increase
efficiency in operations and achieve and consolidate financial viability. Key elements of the
restructuring program include reduction of operating costs (especially of personnel), increase
tariffs and improve tariff structures, measures to increase private sector participation through the
use of service contracts and decentralization of AyA's actual organization; (iii) to improve the
operation of the existing water supply system in the San José Metropolitan Area (SJMA), by
reducing water losses, defining pressure zones better and increasing storage capacity in the
distribution system. These actions would also help reduce operating costs and postpone large
capital investments that would otherwise be required; and (iv) improve the SJMA sewerage
service, mainly to address the environmental conditions of poor urban areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during project execution; however, on May 2, 1997, the
Loan amount was reduced by US$10 million, from US$26 million to US$16 million. This drastic
reduction in the Loan amount deserved a revision in project objectives, but such revision was not
undertaken.

3.3 Original Components:

     Component                               Appraisal      Reprogrammed           At Closing
                                             Estimated         (May 1997)       (December 2003)
                                           (March 1993)
     A. Institucional Strengtening              2.80              3.15                4.22
    B. UFW Program                              12.30             9.18                9.43
    C. SJMA Water Supply                        9.90              9.11                7.28
    D. SJMA Sewerage Rehabilitation             3.00              3.12                2.16
    E. Operation and Mintenance                 1.70              0.80                0.72
    Base Cost (December 1992)                   29.70            25.36                23.82
    Phyical Contingencies                       4.30              1.78                0.00
    Price Contingencies                         6.00              0.00                0.00
     Total Project Cost                         40.00            27.14                23.82

3.4 Revised Components:
Reduction of the Loan amount. In March 11­14, 1997 during a visit of a Bank Mission, the Costa
Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados, AyA) and the Bank agreed to reduce the amount of the loan by US$10 million
(from US$26 million to US$16 million), and this was made official in a note signed by the Bank,
the country's Ministry of Finance and the AyA on May 2, 1997. The project objectives were left
unchanged, and the reason for the reduction in the loan was that AyA was lacking the capacity to
carry out the project as it had been originally conceived, even though three years remained before



                                                 - 2 -

the originally scheduled closing date. At the time of reprogramming the Loan it would have been
possible to reschedule the project execution plan and continue implementation using the original
Loan amount. The Government's Health, Planning and Finance authorities did not take part in
those discussions and decision to reduce the Loan amount. This decision was in large part the
reason for not having achieved under the project the target of reducing the level of
unaccounted-for-water, which remained constant throughout the period of project
implementation, at roughly 46 percent, since the proceeds reduced from the Loan essentially
corresponded to reducing the funds which were made available for Component B:
Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction Program, thereby substantially reducing the purchase of
domestic meters, canceling the preparation of the consumer cadastre in the SJMA and diminishing
the replacement of water service connections and the replacement of secondary water networks.

Modifications in project components resulting from the reduction in the Loan amount. The
following changes were made to the original components as a consequence of the reduction in the
loan. Part A: Institutional Strengthening, unmodified. Part B: Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction
program, the dates for compliance were changed, the number of water meters to be acquired with
loan proceeds was reduced, and the components for consumer cadastres and service connection
replacements in the SJMA were eliminated. Part C: Water Supply and Distribution System in the
SJMA, all the investment components were reduced, except for the drilling of two wells for water
production. Part D: Rehabilitation of Sewerage in SJMA, the number of connections to
incorporate in the system through rehabilitation and the number of rehabilitated pumping stations
were reduced; and Part E: Operation and Maintenance, the dates for compliance were changed.
The original project components and the changes introduced on May 2, 1997, when the loan
amount was reduced, are as follows (the changes introduced appear in italics):

Part A: Institutional Strengthening:

1. Development and implementation of:
        a) Sector policies, especially sound investment and cost recovery policies; and
        b) A better institutional framework for water supply and sewerage service in Costa Rica.

2. Improvement of the Borrower's corporate planning, including:
        a) The development and implementation of a budgetary process with programmatic
            content, and
        b) The development and implementation of a long term corporate plan.

3. Improvement of the Borrower's financial management, including:
        a) The development and implementation of an integrated accounting system
        b) The reform of the water tariff structure; and
        c) The development and implementation of sewerage rates to be applied in the SJMA and
            other urban areas.

4. A program to increase decentralization and private sector participation in the supply of water
    and sewer services run by the Borrower, through the development and implementation of a
    decentralization model and a model for private sector participation, including the respective
    training activities.


                                                - 3 -

Part B: Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction Program

1. Investments related to water metering, including the installation of approximately 86,300 new
   meters, the replacement of approximately 25,000 old meters and the repair of approximately
   13,000 meters, and installation of macrometers to control water production in the SJMA. This
   was modified to the installation of 45,000 new meters, the replacement of 40,000 old meters
   and the installation of production macrometers in the SJMA.

2. Development and implementation, within the Borrower's organizational structure, of:
       a) An integral commercial system linked to the accounting system.
       b) A commercial management information system, and
       c) Special procedures for the control of consumers with high usage.

3. Updating of consumer cadastres, including the incorporation of illegal water connections, and
   the development and implementation of the pipes cadastre. This component was eliminated.

4. Development and implementation of an operational control system to improve the efficiency
   of the SJMA water supply system.
5. Replacement of approximately 8,000 water connections in the SJMA. This component was
   eliminated.

Part C: SJMA Water Supply and Distribution System

1. Installation and operation of approximately 19 km of primary distribution pipes and
   approximately 57 km of small diameter pipes in the SJMA distribution system. This was
   modified to installation of 19 km of primary distribution pipes and approximately 26 km of
   small diameter pipes.

2. Construction of 10 storage tanks to be located in Curridabat, San Isidro, Belo Horizonte, San
   Juan de Dios, Pizote, Mata de Plátano, and two each in San Pablo and Coronado. This was
   modified to construction of four tanks to be located in: Santa Ana, Belo Horizonte, San Juan
   de Dios and Mata de Plátano and to the rehabilitation of two tanks: La Pelota and Tibás.

3. Construction of production facilities consisting of two wells in Potrerillos and two in Zona
   Norte.

4. Construction of four water pumping stations. This was modified to construction of two
   pumping stations.

5. Technical assistance for the final designs of the above mentioned works and supervision
   during construction.




                                                - 4 -

Part D: SJMA Rehabilitation Sewerage Works

1. Rehabilitation, reconstruction and/or interconnection of sewage collectors to incorporate
    approximately 6,500 sewerage connections into the system. This was modified to incorporate
    approximately 3,000 sewerage connections into the system.

2. Installation of approximately 27 km of secondary sewage collectors to improve the
    environmental conditions of the neighborhoods Los Guido and La Paz.

3. Rehabilitation of seven sewage pumping stations. This was modified to four pumping stations.

4. Technical assistance for the final designs of the above mentioned works and supervision
    during construction.

Part E: Operation and Maintenance

1. Purchase of equipment for the operation and maintenance of the sewerage systems.

Consultancy services, equipment and civil works required for the vulnerability study and
maintenance of the Orosi pipeline.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Prior to project preparation a sector study of the water and sanitation sector in Costa Rica was
prepared by the Bank (Report 10070-CR, December 30, 1991). This was an extensive sector
study and the project was basically an outcome of the recommendations of this study and was
structured to respond to them. That ensured that the quality at entry was of a high level. The
project objectives and components were well suited to improve the performance of a public
utility. A previous Bank project focused on implementing large scale works for augmenting the
water production to San Jose, whereas the current project concentrated on institutional
improvements, in addition to execution of smaller scale works. The preparation of the institutional
improvement measures was of high quality. Prior to initiation of project activities, AyA did not
have management instruments, technology, financial management capacity and long term planning
ability. The project was conceived to modernize AyA and introduce to it all these new
instruments. The concept of Private Sector Participation (PSP) is mentioned in the project
preparation documents, but it is a different concept than PSP as it is understood today. The
project was prepared during the years 1991-1993 and at that time PSP was not as developed and
referred basically to service contracts. Another aspect that was different at the time of project
preparation and has not received much attention is environmental protection and safeguards. That
was the common practice then, and the project was perhaps deficient in terms of environmental
assessment. However, the works that were financed under the project were urban works which
did not have significant long term environmental impacts, so the project outcome from the
environmental standpoint has not been deficient.




                                                 - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The original project objectives were clear, appropriate and realistic, as well as consistent with
both the country's development strategies and the Bank's policies. They were geared to the
development of a national sectoral policy and the improvement of the institutional framework for
provision of the services; the improvement of operational efficiency and the consolidation of the
Borrower's financial viability; and the improvement of the quality of existing water supply
operations and sewerage service in the SJMA.

Objective 1: Help the Government and AyA to improve the institutional framework for the
provision of water and sewerage services in Costa Rica, including promotion of private sector
participation, and develop and implement sound sectoral policies

The institutional structure of the water sector in Costa Rica did not change much during the
project implementation period, except in the area of regulation through transformation of the
National Electricity Service (Servicio Nacional de Electricidad, SNE) into the Regulation
Authority of Public Services (Autoridad Reguladora de los Servicios Públicos, ARESEP). This
change in itself is quite meaningful, in the sense that AyA needs now to justify request for tariff
increase, and its financial, technical and management performance are controlled to a certain
extent by an independent professional regulator. In spite of the impression that not much has been
achieved in improving the institutional framework, a meaningful and important change has
occurred in the sector during the project implementation period. During the first years of
implementation, there was a resistance within AyA to any change both at a sector level and within
AyA, and lack of understanding of the need for change. During the period 1992-2002 the
Government authorities (the Ministries of Planning and Economic Policy, Heath and Finance)
showed little interest in developing the sector.

However, overtime the position within AyA and in the Government has changed, and to a large
extent, this change was brought about by the project. In a review meeting of the ICR held on
March 2004 with participation of the AyA personnel which was involved in project
implementation, the consensus was that the history of AyA can be divided in two parts: the old
history before the project and the new history after the project. The new history is totally different
since through the project AyA entered the era of technology and modern management
instruments. The project opened the mind of AyA's personnel to new horizons and thought it that
there is a need to modernize the structure of AyA in order to keep abreast with the modernizing
world, and that AyA's staff needs to stop opposing to changes.

A sectoral study on water and sanitation in Costa Rica was prepared under the project in 2002
[5]. This study proposes a meaningful institutional restructuring of the sector, and was extensively
disclosed nationwide in early 2003. The implementation of the study and the adoption of its
conclusions demonstrates the development process of the sector. During the initial years of
project implementation, even thinking about modernization was prohibited, while towards project
closing, ideas about reform, modernization, restructuring and even PSP in its current meaning,
have been developed and are seriously considered.



                                                 - 6 -

The new government that took office in 2002 became very much involved in the needs of the
water sector, is committed to undertake necessary reforms and has a positive position towards
PSP in the sector. This is manifested by its willingness to continue with a follow up project based
on more profound reforms. In a letter of request for a new Bank operation (see Annex 9) the
Government, represented by the Ministers of Health and Finance, sets the policy for the sector
and AyA by stating:

"As was preliminarily established, the proposed project will asist in defining the vision and the
strategy for the water and sanitation sector, and in initiating a process of institutional reform of
the sector and a transformation of the Costa Rican Water Supply and Sewerage Institute (AyA)
in the following manner:

Institutional reform of the sector and AyA: This will include (i) the development of a strategy
and a plan of action concerning the proposed national policy for the provision of water and
sanitation services in the country along with the respective investment plan, the preceding based
on the results of the recent sectoral analysis, (ii) the separation of the roles of sector policy
maker and operator currently performed by AyA, (iii) the corporatization of the AyA operator
resulting from the separation of roles, and (iv ) provision of support for the policy maker and for
the National Water Council (Consejo Nacional del Agua). Obviously, the implementation of this
reform will depend on modifying the current legislation, which will be promoted during the
implementation of the proposed project.

Improvement of the water and sanitation services: This would be carried out through (i)
liberating AyA from the responsibility over the rural sector, along with updating and
modernization of the funding mechanisms for the water sector; (ii) incorporating a specialized
operator to manage the commercial system of AyA; (iii) operating the San José sewerage system
by a specialized operator under a "Design Built Operate (DBO)" modality; (iv) incorporating
specialized operators to manage the water and sanitation systems in five medium size cities, and
(v) strengthening the environmental management capacity in the sector."

Considering the mentioned change of mentality in AyA and at the Government level, as well as
the actions undertaken, it is considered that the objective of helping the Government and AyA to
improve the institutional framework was met.

Private sector participation, as defined in the project documents, referred only to service contracts
(construction, cleaning services, security, maintenance, installation of new service connections,
etc.) and not at private participation in system management. AyA complied with that PSP
concept.

Objective 2: Support AyA to improve operational efficiency and consolidate the Borrower's
financial viability

The borrower's commercial and financial management improved considerably with the
implementation of the integrated commercial and financial management systems under a SAP



                                                 - 7 -

platform. Domestic metering effective coverage reached 82 percent (with 93 percent of total
coverage). The user cadastre in the SJMA was not updated under the project (it was updated last
time in 1990). The Borrower's financial viability remained weak due to authorization by the
regulator of only small tariff increases which were sufficient to compensate only for inflation.
Fulfillment of this objective is considered satisfactory because of the achievements in
implementing the modern commercial and financial accounting systems.

Objective 3: Improve the quality of water supply operations and sewerage service in the San José
Metropolitan Area

Water supply system. Operational control of the water supply system improved significantly with
the installation of bulk meters on all the water sources, and with the improvement of the
operational control center in the SJMA, which made it possible for the Borrower to generate
timely operational information such as the production flows, water levels in the storage tanks and
more. The level of unaccounted-for-water (UFW) remained unchanged, at 46 percent, throughout
the course of project implementation, mainly because project investments were insufficient to
offset the physical and commercial losses that require considerable investments to replace
pipelines, manage demand, control leaks, etc., programs for which the borrower is lacking in
technology, financial resources and qualified personnel. The goals set for UFW reduction were
overly optimistic and were not consistent with the investments needed to reduce UFW. By the end
of the project, the borrower was facing the challenges of a water shortage and rationing in most of
the systems that he managed, including in the SJMA. The reduction of the loan amount affected
the achievement of this objective.

Sewerage system. The target of providing sewerage services in the poor neighborhoods of Los
Guido and La Paz were met with the construction of the sewerage networks as planned. The
installation of sewerage systems in other sectors of the SJMA was completed as well. The
rehabilitation of four sewage pumping stations had little impact on the problems in the SJMA
sewerage system, which is in an overall state of severe deterioration.

In summary, the achievement of this objective is considered satisfactory. The improvement in the
water supply system operation was meaningful and the installation of sewerage systems in the
poor neighborhoods of SJMA had a significant impact of improving the living conditions in those
neighborhoods. The goal of reducing unaccounted-for-water was not achieved in large part, due
to the reduction in the loan amount, although, as noted, the goal was overly optimistic to start
with. The impact of the sewerage works executed under the project was not very significant when
compared to the large investments needed for improving the sewerage service, however, the
works were completed as planned.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Component A: Institutional Strengthening
Investment and cost recovery policies. In September 1998, a local consultant prepared the
document "Elaboration of Investment and Cost Recovery policies" [3]. This document identified
the investments needed in the country's metropolitan, urban and rural areas, and described options
for private sector participation in the management of the water and sanitation services. It did not,
however, consider any relationship with ARESEP, the regulatory agency for the sector, with


                                                  - 8 -

which the basis for investment and cost recovery policies ought to be established. This document
later served as a basis for preparing, in June 2001, an Inventory of Investments [4] proposed to be
executed by the Borrower, which was prepared by another local consultant. The proposed
investment and cost recovery policies were not widely adopted by AyA. In 2003, a more detailed
investment program was developed by another consultant, and is serving as the basis for defining
the official investment program that AyA would undertake in the coming years.

Institutional framework. A Water and Sanitation Sectoral Analysis (ASAPS) [5] was conducted
under the project in late 2000 with support from AyA, the Ministry of Health and the MINAE,
and published in July 2002. It was prepared by a team of five international and five local
consultants. This nationwide study, now widely disseminated, was adopted by the Government of
the current administration (2002­2006) and will therefore mark the direction in which the water
sector in the country will develop over the following years. The Sectoral Analysis provides an
administrative, legal and technical assessment of the sector; an analysis of crucial items; a set of
recommended policies, strategies and actions; a proposal for modernizing the sector; an
investment plan and an action plan with a breakdown of approximate costs and performance
deadlines. The action plan consists of three programs with ten projects, as shown in Table 2.

Table 2: Proposed Action Plan for Modernization of the Water and Sanitation Sector

 Program 1:          · Structuring of the legal and regulatory framework for the Sector.
 Institutional reform· Evolution of AyA and its role in the Sector.
 of the sector       · Establishment of initiatives for hiring other operators for small operating units.
                     · Information campaigns.
 Program 2: Sector   · National Urban Water and Sanitation Plan.
 planning            · National Rural Water and Sanitation Plan.
 Program 3:          · Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction.
 Operational         · National Information System for the Sector.
 management          · Control and Monitoring of Water Quality.
                     · Strengthening Municipalities ASADAS (and CAARS) and providing them with
                        Technical Assistance for financial and commercial management.


The relevant institutional reforms made during project execution (during the 1990s), were: (i)
transformation of the Rural Water Supply Administrative Committees (Comités Administradores
de Acueductos Rurales, CAARS) into Water Supply and Sewer Service Administrative
Associations (Asociaciones Administradoras de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Sanitarios,
ASADAS) with status of legal entities (2000), although with ample dependence on AyA; (ii)
strengthening of the regulation of public services with the transformation of the National
Electricity Service (SNE) into the Regulatory Authority of Public Services (ARESEP) (1996),
even though the municipalities are not subject to regulation by ARESEP pursuant to a decision of
the Constitutional Court (the Comptroller General of the Republic exercises the regulation over
the municipalities); (iii) enactment of a new law regulating Government Procurement (1996) and
another law regulating the Concession of Public Works and Public Services (1998); (iv)
enactment by ARESEP of the Decree of Sectoral Regulations applicable to water supply and
Sewerage services (Decree No. 30413-MIP-MINAE-s-MEIC, 2002); and (v) establishment by the


                                                     - 9 -

Government of the National Water Council.

Development and implementation of a programmatic budgetary process. A new corporate
planning model and a new corporate budget model, as well as Guidelines for Drafting the Annual
Operating Plan and the 1995 AyA Budget [6] were developed under a consulting services study.
These models and guidelines have been applied in AyA since 1995.

Development and implementation of a long term corporate plan. A foreign expert prepared a
study on the Physical Planning Model proposed for AyA on a preliminary level [7]. The results
were not acceptable to AyA, which, in June 2001, updated the inventory of investment needs. For
a long period AyA did not have a detailed Investment Plan, in large part due to the uncertainty
surrounding the source of funds for financing the investments, the refusal of the previous
Government to authorize external lending and the Government-imposed limits on spending, which
to a large extent, prevented timely investments. In 2003, a detailed study defined all the potential
investment projects in AyA. On the basis of this study, AyA has elaborated the official investment
program of the institute.

Advisory services on procurement and internal control. With funding from the loan, a local
consultant was hired to provide advisory services on processes of procurement, internal control
and coordination with multilateral agencies on aspects of financial management. Procurement
procedures were a source of conflicts between the Bank and AyA during the execution of both
this project and the preceding project (1935-CR), since some of the Bank's procurement
guidelines are not accepted under the country's procurement Law. In 1996 a new Procurement
Law was enacted; however, the inconsistencies between this Law and the Bank's procurement
guidelines persisted. A recent detailed analysis carried out by a national procurement expert
identified the points of friction and concluded that procurement issues may cause problems in the
implementation of the entire Bank portfolio.

Development and implementation of an integrated accounting system. The development and
implementation of the Integrated Financial and Procurement System (Sistema Integrado
Financiero y Suministros, SIFS) and the Integrated Commercial Management System (Sistema
Comercial Integrado, SCI) were awarded to joint venture Aguas de Valencia/Unión Fenosa
ACEX. In addition, funds from the loan were used to acquire the hardware needed for systems
development and production, consisting of two servers for development, two servers for
production, 48 computer workstations and 10 printers supporting the systems for the SJMA and
other Regions, in addition to the licenses for the application software and the database software.
This system was satisfactorily implemented in AyA on a SAP platform. The problems encountered
in implementing the systems were resolved by training the AyA officers in all the regions. AyA
considers that the systems are currently operating satisfactorily. With the new systems installed
and operational, AyA has at its disposal the most modern management instruments which can, if
properly handled, boost efficiency and productivity, and significantly contribute to institutional
improvements.

Water and sewerage service tariffs. A proposal for a new tariff structure was developed under the
project in 1997 [8], based on a formula of a fixed cost term plus a consumption proportional term.



                                                - 10 -

In addition, a significant progressive increase in sewerage tariffs was proposed. This proposal was
not implemented by AyA nor was it discussed with the ARESEP. In November 2002, in response
to a request by AyA for a tariff increase, ARESEP [9] introduced a new concept in AyA's tariff
management. It enforces a progressive modification in the tariff levels so as to reach a state under
which the water and sewerage tariffs in the metropolitan, urban and rural areas will become
identical. The tariffs approved for the Metropolitan Area became applicable in November 2002,
the tariffs for the urban area became equal to those of the Metropolitan Area in July 2003 and the
tariffs for the rural area reachrd the same level in 2004. The tariff structure was not yet altered
and this still needs to be implemented, in order to apply a more adequate tariff structure.

Strengthening decentralization and private sector participation in the water supply and sanitation
services provided by AyA. During the project implementation period decentralization of AyA's
operation to the regions was significantly strengthened and today the regions are more
autonomous and function with a considerable level of independence. This was made possible to a
large extent by the implementation of the Integrated Financial and Procurement System and the
Integrated Commercial Management System. Private sector participation in the context of the
loan (i.e., as defined in the loan documents) involved the use, by AyA, of service contract such as
construction, security, cleaning services, maintenance of some installations, etc. The service
contracts approach was complied by AyA. There were attempts to move beyond the service
contracts concepts towards deeper private sector involvement. In March 1999, in response to the
Government's request, a World Bank team conducted the study "Strategic Options for the Water
and Sanitation Sector in Costa Rica" [10]. It recommended to award to the private sector a full
concession of AyA's operations. The recommendations of this study were rejected by AyA and by
the Government. At that time, both AyA and the Government were reluctant to allow private
sector participation in the management of the water sector and in the provision of services. The
PSP issue was readdressed in the Water and Sanitation Sector Analysis [5], which recommended
a different strategy for PSP in the country. Currently, AyA and the Government are more open to
private sector participation and have requested Bank support for preparation of a new operation
which involves meaningful PSP for: (i) management of the commercial operations of AyA; (ii)
reduction of Unaccounted for Water; (iii) management of the water and sanitation services in 5
medium and small municipalities; and (iv) construction and operation of the sewerage system and
wastewater treatment installation of SJMA.

The results of the execution of this component are considered satisfactory, taking into account
that under the institutional setup of AyA, which has been since its establishment a public
institution whose president and senior management are replaced every 2-3 years, it is difficult to
expect that meaningful institutional reforms can be achieved during a relatively short time. In
addition to the institutional improvements achieved, the project contributed to open the minds and
change the attitude of AyA's senior and middle management to the need for change and reform,
as well as to change the attitude of the government toward the water sector and the need for its
modernization.

4.2.2 Component B: Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction Program
Investments related to water metering. About 110,000 domestic meters and 67,000 protection
boxes and their accessories were purchased and installed during project implementation. The total



                                                 - 11 -

coverage of domestic metering reached a value of 93 percent with an effectiveness of 82 percent.
In the SJMA, the bulk metering of production and operational control points was completed, with
a total of 69 bulk meters installed and connected to the operational control center that was
upgraded. Bulk meters in the other AyA regions were purchased with project funding and
installed using AyA's own funds. Although it was expected to reach, with the installation of all the
bulk meters, a 100% coverage rate, the current bulk metering coverage is only 90%, because new,
yet un-metered, water sources have been incorporated into the supply system since the completion
of installation of the bulk metering system.

Development and implementation of an integrated commercial management system that includes a
commercial management information system and special procedures for the control of consumers
with high level of water consumption and a link to the accounting system. This target was
completely met as described above.

Consumer cadastre. In the SJMA, the consumer cadastre component was eliminated from the
project as a result of the reduction in the loan amount and it has not been updated by AyA during
the project implementation period. The last update occurred in 1990. The consumer cadastre was
updated in the other regions outside the SJMA.

Operational control system in the SJMA. The operational control system was installed and is
operating satisfactorily in the SJMA. The system consists of 69 bulk meters integrated by a
network of radio communications, with an Operational Control Center located in the La Uruca,
which was upgraded to work with the new bulk meters and the operational control system.

Replacement of water connections in the SJMA. This component was eliminated from the project
as a result of the reduction in the loan amount.

Due to the reduction in the loan amount, the measures finally taken were not sufficient to reduce
unaccounted-for-water, which remained unchanged during project execution period, at about 46
percent. The goal for its reduction to 31 percent by the year 2002 has not been met. As noted, the
goals set for UFW reduction were overly optimistic to start with and were not consistent with the
investments needed to reduce UFW, and even the unrealistic small investment allocated was later
reduced.

4.2.3 Component C: SJMA Water Supply and Distribution System
Installation of primary distribution and small diameter water pipes in the SJMA. A total of
13,164.4 meters of primary distribution pipes and 15,313.0 meters of small diameter pipes were
installed under the proejct.

Construction of storage tanks. Five storage tanks were constructed under the project: Pavas, Belo
Horizonte, Santa Ana, San Juan de Dios and Mata de Plátano (El Carmen), with a total volume of
15,000 m3, and two storage tanks were rehabilitated: La Pelota and Tibás, each with a volume of
5000 m3 for a total rehabilitation of 10,000 m3.




                                                 - 12 -

Construction of water production facilities. Three deep wells were perforated: in El Coco
Alajuela, in San Pablo de Heredia and in Tanque Tibás, with a total production capacity of some
150 l/s. Only the third well was incorporated at this time to the SJMA water supply system.

Construction of pumping stations. Two pumping stations were constructed in the SJMA water
system: Guadalupe with a capacity of 250 l/s and Maiquetía with a capacity of 130 l/s.

The investment in this component was low in respect to the investments required to bring
production capacity in the SJMA water supply system in line with demand and provide a
satisfactory supply to the population (by reducing unaccounted-for-water and developing new
water sources) and was further reduced as a result of the reduction in the loan amount. Currently,
the production capacity in the SJMA is nine percent below demand in the summer season,
considering that, according to the billing records, summertime demand is approximately seven
percent greater than the average yearly demand.

4.2.4 Component D: Rehabilitation of Sewerage Works in SJMA
Rehabilitation of collectors. This component was not carried out.

Installation of secondary networks in Los Guido, La Paz and other neighborhoods in the SJMA.
A total of 54,776 meters of sewage collectors were installed in Los Guido, San Miguel (La Paz)
and in 15 other neighborhoods in the SJMA, incorporating to the sewerage system 5,833 new
connections, benefiting some 24,325 residents, according to the breakdown shown in the Table 3.

       Table 3: Details on the Secondary Sewerage Systems Installed Under the Project

Location/Project                                   Length      Manholes   Connections
Ujarrás, Zapote                                      150           4          17
Gazel, Cedros de Montes de Oca                       803          12          161
El Oriente, Montes de Oca                            897          13          177
San Blas de Moravia                                  194           3          39
San Roque, Calle Fallas                              281           5          56
Calle Vieja Los Castros, Tibás                       496           5          99
San Gerónimo, Tibás                                 1,091          7          218
Cementerio, Pavas                                    130           2          25
Villa Franca, Tibás                                  116           2          23
El Jardín, Bajos del Torres                          356           8          71
Barrio Fátima, San Francisco de Dos Ríos            1,499         23          292
Avenida 7, Calles 22/24 San José                     135           1          27
Ciudadela 27 Julio, Hatillo                          531           5          107
Hatillo Centro                                      1,925         13          279
Barrio Claret, Barrio México                         994          17          199
Los Guido                                          29,212         365        2,611
San Miguel                                         15,966         200        1,432
Total                                              54,776         685        5,833


Rehabilitation of pumping stations. Five small pumping stations were rehabilitated, with flow rates
ranging from 5­15 l/s: (i) Cerámica Poás in Calle Fallas de Desamparados; (ii) Florida Norte in


                                                - 13 -

Barrio Mexico; (iii) La Florita in Calle Fallas de Desamparados; (iv) Lomas del Sol in Curridabat;
and (iv) San Esteban Rey in Calle Fallas de Desamparados.

In comparison to the investments needed to rehabilitate the sewerage system in the SJMA as a
whole, these works are of little significance. Nonetheless, they did have a large impact on
sanitation of the neighborhoods in which they are located, especially in the poor neighborhood of
Los Guido, where they benefited some 10,705 residents.

4.2.5 Component E: Operation and Maintenance
Purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance of the sewerage systems. This included the
purchase of equipment for maintenance of the sewers. The following equipment was acquired: 1
truck with a water jet discharge capacity, 1 truck with sewer cleaning capacity by water, 1 truck
with equipment for video inspection of the sewage collectors, 1 back digger and 1 compressor.
This equipment is being used by AyA for maintenance of the sewerage system.

Consulting services, equipment and civil works required for the vulnerability study of the
maintenance of the Orosi pipeline. Three consulting services were carried out in order to analyze
the vulnerability of the Orosi pipeline in the section between El Llano Dam and Tres Ríos water
treatment plant, a conveyance line 30 km long, 1100/900 mm in diameter with an inverted siphon
at Orosi with a pressure of 560 meters (water column) and a tunnel of one kilometer in Cerro de
La Carpintera, which was financed under the Bank's first loan (1935-CR). The study first
identified the areas of greatest risk and the studies needed to define the construction work.
Subsequently, geological, hydraulic, hydrological, structural and seismic vulnerability, studies
were carried out, supplemented by geophysical and soil studies. Based on the recommendations of
these studies, protection work were carried out and some pipes and special couplings were
acquired for the installation of inclinometers and piezometers in sectors bordering the Orosi
pipeline. In the opinion of the AyA's operation personnel, no further investments are needed for
the moment, as the existing problems have been corrected. AyA needs to continue its monitoring
and maintenance activities to adequately preserve these facilities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return were not estimated in the SAR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
Financial Rate of Return was not estimated in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's greatest impact on AyA has been the improvement of financial and commercial
management of the institution, with the development and implementation of the new Integrated
Financial and Procurement System (SIFS) and the Integrated Commercial Management System
(SCI), which are now operating satisfactorily in the AyA. With the new systems installed and
operational, AyA has at its disposal the most modern management instruments which can, if
properly handled, boost efficiency and productivity, and significantly contribute to institutional
improvements.



                                                 - 14 -

The results of the Sectoral Analysis of Water and Sanitation in Costa Rica (ASAPS), adopted by
the Government as a policy for improvement of the sector and reform of AyA, is the project's
most important achievement. The implementation of this policy, supported by the World Bank
through a new lending operation should guarantee the adequate development of the sector in a
manner that will enable it to address the problems of the water and sanitation services. Attaining
adequate levels of efficient services will require undertaking extensive investment.

On various occasions during project execution, the Bank and the consultants hired to assist in
project implementation have informed AyA of the needs for adjustment and modernization that
would have to be undertaken in order to achieve adequate water and sanitation services in the
SJMA and the rest of the country, given the difficulties in obtaining financing for its investments.
The financing problems persisted to a large extent due to the previous administration's refusal to
allow AyA to get access to foreign loans so as to control the Government's foreign debt, and its
adoption of macroeconomic measures to offset inflation and reduce devaluation of currency.
These measures included imposing caps on spending by Government owned institutions, and
therefore, the only remaining option for AyA, not just for accessing financing, but also for
improving efficiency, was to incorporate the private sector in the delivery of the services. But this
was an approach that AyA was reluctant to undertake at the time, even when it was proposed as a
Government strategy under the administration of 1998­2002, when it attempted to rehabilitate
and complete the SJMA sewerage system and provide wastewater treatment, at an estimated
investment of about US$290 million, through a BOT contract.

However, in spite of the difficulties in implementing the project and AyA's reluctance to
undertake reforms, especially during the early project years, through the project AyA entered the
era of technology and modern management instruments. The project opened the mind of AyA's
management and personnel to new horizons and thought it that there is a need to modernize the
structure of AyA in order to keep abreast with the modernizing world. As a result of the project
AyA is now ready to undertake meaningful modernization steps.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the project execution period, Costa Rica dealt with several shocks and situations beyond
the control of the Borrower and the implementing agency: inflation, fiscal deficits, stagnating tax
revenues, increases in debt related interest payments, labor unrest leading to higher-than-planned
rises in wages, downward tendency in coffee prices, and the impact of Sept 11 on tourism related
revenues. This led the government to impose spending caps on public institutions, including AyA
and resulted in reducing the availability of counterpart funding for the project and consequently to
slower implementation.




                                                     - 15 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Spending caps. The spending caps strategy imposed by the Government on public institutions,
including AyA, had a significant effect on slowing down project execution. Other Government
agencies succeeded in getting budget caps lifted and/or revised in order to be able to execute their
priority programs, but AyA did not manage to do that and, as a result, implementation suffered
delays.

Government procurement. The country's policy on government procurement does not fully
coincide with the Bank's procurement guidelines and Costa Rica did not, at the time of project
execution, accept the supralegality of the Bank procurement guidelines. This led to challenges in
execution when conflicts came up. Hiring of consultants was a constant source of conflicts.
Another major problem was the intervention of the Comptroller General's office in complains
about award of contracts (works, goods and services). All that delayed the processes of hiring
consultants and execution of works and constituted a severe problem in the execution of the
project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
AyA's Management support to the project. During the first years of project execution, AyA'a
management was not decisive in its support to the project. The project was prepared by an
administration that left office right after signing the Loan Agreement and the incoming
administration was not supportive of the project because of its different priorities. Also, the new
Government was faced with a more adverse political climate that prevented institutional
development actions. Under these circumstances, counterpart funds were not assigned to the
project in a timely fashion and that caused implementation problems. To a large extent, it was
difficult to reach agreement over the execution of the institutional development component and
AyA's management was, in spite of the Bank's supervision efforts, reluctant to make any changes
or restructuring, particularly when it referred to PSP. During those years, the Government
(Ministries of National Planning and Economic Policy, Health and Finance) was confronted with
competing priorities and did not focus on the water and sanitation sector or on the project.

Tariffs and counterpart funds. In matters of tariffs and generation of counterpart funds for project
implementation, AyA was unable to comply with the investment plans agreed upon with the Bank.
The situation became more difficult in 1997, the year that AyA and the Bank agreed to reduce the
loan amount by US$10 million (from US$26 million to US$16 million), considering that the AyA
was lacking the capacity to execute the rest of the loan.

Delays in the design of works. The designs of the works to be constructed under the project were
not prepared in a timely fashion. All the designs were prepared by AyA, except for the protection
works of the Orosi pipeline. These delays caused delays in project implementation.

Delays in hiring consulting services. PAHO was hired by AyA to provide technical assistance and
to serve as a procurement agency for hiring all the consulting services required for project
execution. The performance of PAHO in hiring the required consulting services was not efficient
and contributed to delays in project implementation.



                                                    - 16 -

Relations between AyA's Management and the Bank Task Managers. During most of the project
execution period, the relationship between the Bank's supervision team and the management of
AyA was dominated by differences of opinion, a factor which had a negative impact on project
execution. Differences were inevitable because the process of reform was left entirely in the hands
of the institution needing reform, and there was no, external to AyA, national champion for the
reform. The Bank was also slow in understanding that, given Costa Rica's institutional
environment, a thorough and inclusive process to build wide social support was needed to get
National Assembly approval, and to implement reforms. Finally, during the last years of project
implementation--after a lengthy learning process, changes in counterparts and supervision
teams--relations improved, and a good dialogue has been maintained since then.

Reduction in loan amount. The reduction of US$ 10 million in the loan amount affected
negatively the implementation of the project and its outcome. This reduction was a result of an
agreement between AyA's management and the Bank. The reason for AyA's management
agreement to the reduction is unclear.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of the original project was estimated at US$ 40 million to be financed by AyA, US$ 14
million and the World Bank loan, US$26 million. On May 1997, the project cost was reduced to
US$ 27.14 million, to be financed by AyA, US$ 11.14 million and the World Bank loan, US$16
million.The project scope was reduced accordingly. Project cost at closing date amounted to US$
23.82 million, of which AyA financed 8.76 million and the World Bank-loan financed US$ 15.06
million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability of project achievements is rated as likely. This rating is justified in light of
current transition arrangement for future operation and the programs of the current administration
regarding future development of AyA. There are however considerable uncertainties in a public
utility which is subject to periodical replacement of its management with the political cycle. The
rationale for the sustainability rating is the following:

Implementation of the policy defined by the Government for the Sector and for AyA. The current
Government adopted the recommendations of the Sectoral Analysis of water and Sanitation in
Costa Rica (ASAPS) and defined a clear policy for the development of the sector and of AyA. It
has also allowed AyA to get access to external lending to finance institutional reforms and a series
of large sector investments. These actions of the Government provide confidence in the
sustainability of the project achievements regarding institutional development.

SIFS Integrated Financial and Procurement System and SCI Integrated Commercial Management
System. With these new systems installed and operational, AyA has at its disposal the most
modern management instruments which can, if properly handled, boost efficiency and
productivity, and




                                                   - 17 -

significantly contribute to institutional improvements. These systems provide confidence in the
sustainability of the project results and of AyA in terms of improving institutional performance.

Water supply constructed infrastructure. In general terms, AyA maintains the infrastructure in the
SJMA in good condition, which to a large extent, ensures the sustainability of the works over
time.

Sewerage infrastructure. Experience has shown that AyA does not maintain well its sewerage
infrastructure, so the sustainability of the sewerage infrastructure constructed under the project,
mainly the pumping stations, is not guaranteed. The new operation prepared with Bank support
includes a large sewerage component which would be implemented and operated by the private
sector which will guarantee the sustainability of this component.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The water and sewerage works constructed under the project are relatively small in comparison
with the SJMA systems; therefore, additional funding to supplement AyA's existing resources is
not needed for their operation and maintenance.

The operation of the SIFS and SCI will require maintenance and upgrading and appropriate
allocation of funds is requested for that purpose. These requirements will need to be taken into
account in the new operation with the Bank. In addition, AyA needs to implement all the activities
which were eliminated from the project when the loan amount was reduced, such as the user
cadastre in the SJMA, which is essential for proper operation of the systems.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
In November 1991, the Bank completed a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Overview (Report
No. 10070), which served as the basis for defining the project components. The Bank's
participation in project preparation and the relationship between the Bank and the Executing
Agency were highly satisfactory at this stage of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
As previously mentioned, during the first years of project execution the relationship between the
Bank's and AyA's officers was difficult, reflecting changes in counterparts, fiscal constraints and
changes in Government priorities. In the following years, around the mid-term review, the
relationship was affected by differences of opinion and opposing views regarding institutional
improvement and PSP. It is important to mention that all along the Bank maintained close
supervision and contact with the Government and counterparts. Over the last few years of
execution, the supervision team persistence paid off, relations improved considerably, and a fluid
dialogue was established between the Bank, AyA, and the Government. This improved relation
plus a shared vision of the sector have allowed initiating preparation activities for a new
operation. Taking into account the Bank's persistent effort and the positive evolution, the rating
of Bank performance during supervision is satisfactory.




                                                  - 18 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance rating is satisfactory, despite the difficulties at the start of project
execution. This rating reflects: (i) the project's final satisfactory achievements, (2) the initial
good project design, (3) the persistent and close supervision, and finally, (4) the Bank's capacity
to learn and adapt its approach to policy reform in Costa Rica. In addition, continued Bank
support to the sector has been achieved at a time that the country needs the Bank's technical and
financial assistance for implementing the Government's planned policy.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
AyA's participation in project preparation was very active; AyA was aware of the need to study
the sector in depth and it committed to do so. AyA participated very actively in the preparation of
the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Overview (Bank Report No. 10070) in 1991, which
served as the basis for defining the project. The rating is satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Approval of the loan in the Legislative Assembly took one year: the loan was signed on July 28,
1993, was approved by the Legislative Assembly on July 22, 1994, and was finally published in La
Gaceta, the Official Gazette, on August 22, 1994. The Government failed to decisively support
AyA in the execution of the project. AyA failed to obtain the needed tariff increases in a timely
manner or to obtain Government's approval to sufficiently high spending caps which would have
ensured timely execution of the project. In spite of the Bank's efforts and sustained dialogue,
during a significant part of the project implementation period (about the first seven years), the
Government downgraded the sector priority, showing insufficient interest in the improvement of
service quality or sector performance. As a result, service quality deteriorated, in general terms,
during the decade of the nineties. Only during the final years of project implementation the
attitude of the government changed, the water sector received higher priority and strong
commitment to reform and improved performance has developed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Project implementation was very slow; originally, the project was scheduled to close on June 30,
2000. Four extensions were needed to complete execution, the last one through December 31,
2003. The project was declared effective on October 27, 1994. The chart of disbursements in
Annex 2(e) shows that in the years 1995 and 1996 there were practically no disbursements, due to
delays in the preparation of the designs and bidding documents and to delays in the availability of
counterpart funds.

The Executing Agency was unable to execute the full amount of the loan, and in July 1997, it
made the decision, along with the Bank, to reduce the loan amount by US$10 million (from
US$26 million to US$16 million). The official reason was a lack of AyA's capacity for executing
the loan in the agreed time frame, even though three years remained before the agreed term
expired.

During a significant period of project implementation, the Executing Agency was late in
submitting the external audit reports of the project and those of AyA. Audit delays were due to
slow Government procurement procedures for hiring the external auditors and problems in
preparing the financial reports.


                                                - 19 -

During the last four years of project implementation, the performance of the Executing Agency
has improved in all aspects. The Government of Costa Rica and AyA became more supportive of
the project and its long-term objectives.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Two distinct periods could be identified in terms of the Borrower's (both government and
Executing Agency) performance in project implementation. During the first six years the
Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory, while during the last four years it has improved a lot
and could be classified as Satisfactory. Since the overall Borrower performance rating covers the
entire project implementation period, and considering the difficulties during the first years of
project implementation as described above, the overall Borrower performance (during the
combined two periods) is rated as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Approval of the loan agreements. In Costa Rica, approval of loan agreements is handled by the
Legislative Assembly. In the best of cases, this approval takes no less than one year. This time
period needs to be taken into account in the timeline for project implementation, yet at the same
time, it should be used by the Executing Agency to get ready for the project execution by
implementing studies, designs, etc.

Government support for the project. The Government's involvement in project implementation
was very limited. In future operations, a mechanism should be established for a continuous dialog
with Government authorities, specifically the Ministries of Health and Finance and the National
Water Council.

Executing Agency support for the project. The project suffered considerable delays in execution
due to lack of support from AyA's management for its implementation during the initial years.
Decline in support generally arise during periodic changes in administrations, which follow the
political cycle, every four years and sometimes more frequent. Future operations should establish
better mechanisms for evaluating project execution. The mid-term review ought to be
supplemented with evaluations at the start of each new administration.

Government procurement. Not all of the Bank's procurement guideline are compatible with the
Costa Rican procurement Law. During project preparation the supralegality of the Bank
procurement guidelines was not recognized in Costa Rica. This created implementation problems
during the entire period of project execution and led to situations that were impossible to resolve.
This lesson has not been capitalized, given that in executing the first Bank operation (Loan
1935-CR), this was one of the biggest challenges. For future operations, this subject needs to be
carefully analyzed and a solution to it needs to be identified. The mechanism used in the present
loan for overcoming procurement problems, which was the hiring of PAHO as a procurement
agency which does not have to act according to the local procurement Law, was declared by the
Comptroller General of the Republic as illegal, since it did not follow the procedures set forth in
the national legislation on government procurement. The matter of procurement inconsistency is
still unresolved.



                                                - 20 -

Tariffs. The approval of tariff increases was one of the hurdles in the execution of the project.
They were not timely, nor do they adhere to clear negotiation principles between the Executing
Agency and ARESEP. New operations should make advance plans for clear and transparent
principles for tariff increases, agreed upon by the Executing Agency and the ARESEP,
particularly while taking into account the regulating entity's last resolution, which equalized AyA
rates throughout the country: metropolitan, urban and rural.

Preparation of projects, designs, bidding documents and contracts. In the two water sector
projects partially financed by Bank Loans (the previous Loan 1935-CR and the current Loan
3625-CR), the preparation of designs and bidding and contract documents were causes for
considerable delays. The time during which a loan is in the process of approval within the country
should be used for implementing these activities. An itemized time line and monitoring by sector
authorities should be prepared to reduce these delays. The use of external consulting services is
highly recommended for preparation of projects, since it would free the institution from a
considerable work load.




                                                 - 21 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.




                                             - 22 -

10. Additional Information

Technical Assistance Agreement with PAHO. To prepare and execute the project, AyA and
PAHO signed an agreement (as established in the Loan Agreement), for the purpose of provision
of technical assistance to AyA by PAHO, for executing Components A and B of the project. The
agreement was also used to procure consulting services and goods according to the Bank
guidelines and overcome the problem of incompatibility with the local procurement legislation,
with PAHO acting as a procurement agency.




                                            - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a: Output Indicators

                             Indicator                             Projected in Loan    Actual/Latest
                                                                  Agreement for 2001 Estimate (December
                                                                                           2003)
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
1. Domestic metering Level (%) AyA = No. Connections with                 99                93.3
Operating Meter x 100/No. Water Connections
2. Bulk metering Level SJMA (%) = No. Water Connections x                 100                90
100/Metered water produced
3. Unaccounted for Water (%) SJMA = Water Produced - Water                28                48.9
billed x 100 / Water Produced
4. Staff Productivity Level AyA = Employees year end / 1000 Water  6.6 (MTR 4.9) (1)        4.9
connections year end
FINANCIAL TARGETS
5. Personnel Cost/ Operating Cost (%) = Personal Costs x 100 /           0.56               0.49
Operational Costs
6. Working Ratio = Operational Costs (Without Depreciation) /            0.50               0.67
Operational Revenues
7. Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Internal Cash Generation / Total    - (MTR 2.4)            2.2
Debt Service
8. Average Collection Period (Months) = Accounts Receivable year          2.5               2.15
end x12 / (Annual Water + Sewer Revenues)
9. Minimum Contribution to Invest. (%) = Minimum Net Internal             30                53.2
Cash Generation(4) / Total Investments
(1) Mid Term Review




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 1b: Key performance indicators evolution

Operational and        1991(3) 1993      1994    1995     1996    1997     1998 1999(4) 2000(4) 2001(4) 2002
Financial Targets
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
1. Micrometering Level (%) AyA = No. Connections with Operating Meter x 100/No. Water Connections
Loan Agreement (1)             79       91     96        99     99        99     99        99        99    99
Mid Term Review (2)            71       70     72        77     84        92     99        99        99    99
Real                   78.90   -        70.0   73.0      78.0   77.0      85.0   89.0      87.7      81.8
2. Macrometering Level SJMA (%) = No. Water Connections x 100/Metered water produced
Loan Agreement                 50       60     80        100    100       100    100       100       100   100
Mid Term Review                -        70     79        85     90        95     100       100       100   100
Real                   -                70.0   75.0      80.0   80.0      80.0   80.0      76.6      95.1
3. Unaccounted for Water (%) SJMA = Water Produced - Water billed x 100 / Water Produced
Loan Agreement                 44       39     34        28     28        28     28        28        28    28
Mid Term Review                50       54     51        50     48        43     36        31        31    31
Real                   48.20            54.0   53.0      53.0   51.0      -      -         46.6      46.5
4. Staff Productivity Level AyA = Employees year end / 1000 Water connections year end
Loan Agreement                 8.20     7.80   7.50      7.20   7.00      6.80   6.60      6.60      6.60  6.6
Mid Term Review                7.80     7.40   6.30      6.00   5.70      5.40   5.10      4.90      4.90  4.9
Real                   9.50             7.40   6.20      5.80   5.80      5.60   5.04      5.70      4.90
FINANCIAL TARGETS
5. Personnel Cost/ Operating Cost (%) = Personal Costs x 100 / Operational Costs
Loan Agreement                 0.58     0.58   0.58      0.58   0.57      0.56   0.56      0.56      0.56  0.56
Mid Term Review                0.58     0.58   0.58      0.52   0.52      0.52   0.52      0.51      0.51  0.51
Real                   64.30            54.50  53.60     48.70  47.60     48.00  47.00     50.00     45.00
6. Working Ratio = Operational Costs (Without Depreciation) / Operational Revenues
Loan Agreement                 0.55     0.55   0.50      0.50   0.50      0.50   0.50      0.50      0.50  0.50
Mid Term Review                0.70     0.70   0.66      0.64   0.62      0.60   0.57      0.54      0.54  0.54
Real                   0.70             0.71   0.66      0.70   0.72      0.74   0.65      0.67      0.75
7. Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Internal Cash Generation / Total Debt Service
Loan Agreement                 -        -      -         -      -         -      -         -         -     -
Mid Term Review (5)            1.7      2.5    2.4       2.4    2.4       2.4    2.4       2.4       2.4   2.4
Real                   1.3              2.0    2.3       4.6    2.7       3.0    4.0       1.8       2.0
8. Average Collection Period (Months) = Accounts Receivable year end x12 / (Annual Water + Sewer
Revenues)
Loan Agreement                 2.5      2.5    2.5       2.5    2.5       2.5    2.5       2.5       2.5   2.5
Mid Term Review                2.8      3.3    3.7       3.2    3.0       2.5    2.5       2.5       2.5   2.5
Real                   3.9              3.3    3.7       3.5    3.6       3.0    3.2       3.5       2.6
9. Minimum Contribution to Invest. (%) = Minimum Net Internal Cash Generation(4) / Total Investments
Loan Agreement                 14.0     14.0   14.0      20.0   30.0      30.0   30.0      30.0      30.0  30.0
Mid Term Review
Real                   22.0             16.4   18.2      36.6   18.9      22.0   24.5      54.4      53.2
(1) Loan Agreement signed July 28, 1993
(2) Mid Term Review June 28, 1996
(3) 2001 Financial Statements not audited
(4) The Financial indicator from 1999 to 2000 were estimated based on the assumption that the tariffs
would be maintained at the current level.
(5) SAR
Revised: July 2002, Aid Memoire 29 Jul - 2 Aug 2002




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Annex 2a: Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

         Project Component             Appraisal      Amendment      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                       Estimate                        Estimate      Amendment
                                                                     (Decembr 31,
                                                                         2003)
A. Institutional Strengthening            2.1           2.90             4.02            1.39
B. UFW Program                           10.8           7.01             7.65            1.09
C. SJMA Water Supply                      4.7           2.80             2.23            0.80
D. SJMA Sewerage Rehabilitation           .6            0.94             0.65            0.69
E. Operation and Maintenance              1.3           0.57              0.5            0.89
Base Cost (December 1992)                19.5           14.22            15.06           1.06
Physical Contingencies                    2.8           1.78             0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                       3.7           0.00             0.00            0.00
Total Project Cost                       26.0           16.0             15.06           0.94



Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)


Expenditure             Procuremet Method              Procurement Method
Categories               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
              ICB      LCB      Other      Total    ICB    LCB     Other Total

1 Works       0.30     2.00     0.00       2.30     1.64   1.20    0.03   2.86
2 Goods       8.90     5.80     2.30       17.00    3.10   0.13    0.58   3.81
3 Services    0.00     1.40     5.30       6.70     0.00   0.00    8.38   8.38
4 Misc.       0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Total         9.20     9.20     7.60       26.00    4.74   1.33    8.99   15.06

Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



      Component                     Appraisal Estimate         Amendment          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   Bank     AyA    Total  Bank     AyA    Total   Bank     AyA    Total

A. Institucional Strengtening       2.10    0.70   2.80   2.90     0.25    3.15    4.02    0.20    4.22
B. UFW Program                     10.80    1.50   12.30  7.01     2.17    9.18    7.65    1.78    9.43
C. SJMA Water Supply                4.70    5.20   9.90   2.80     6.31    9.11    2.23    5.05    7.28
D. SJMA Sewerage                    0.60    2.40   3.00   0.94     2.18    3.12    0.65    1.51    2.16
Rehabilitation
E. Operation and Mintenance         1.30    0.40   1.70   0.57     0.23    0.80    0.50    0.22    0.72
Base Cost (December 1992)          19.50   10.20   29.70  14.22   11.14   25.36   15.06    8.76   23.82
Phyical Contingencies               2.80    1.50   4.30   1.78     0.00    1.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
Price Contingencies                 3.70    2.30   6.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Project Cost                 26.00   14.00   40.00  16.00   11.14   27.14   15.06    8.76   23.82




                                                - 26 -

 Annex 2d: Project costs by loan categories

Not in standard ICR document


                               SAR-8 Mar 93    Amedment     Final Abr 03 Not Disbursed Percentage=
          CATEGORIES                           May 2, 1997                  Apr-03    Nov 02 x 100/
                                                                                       Amedment

1. Consultancy services and     6,000,000.00   8,525,000.00  8,378,951.93   146,048.07        98.29
training
2. Materials and equipment      15,000,000.00  4,100,000.00  3,813,534.41   286,465.59        93.01
3. Civil works                  2,000,000.00   2,900,000.00  2,864,936.36    35,063.64        98.79
4. Unallocated                  3,000,000.00      475,000.00         0.00   475,000.00         0.00
TOTAL                           26,000,000.00 16,000,000.00 15,057,422.70   942,577.30        94.11




Annex 2e: Project disbursements per year

Not in standard ICR document


       Reference/FY         1994 1995    1996          1998         2000 2001    2002 2003   Total
                                                1997        1999

SAR: March 8, 1993          1.40   3.50   4.00    5.00  6.70  3.60  1.80                      26.00
Amendment May 2, 1997              0.18   0.28    0.88  4.66  7.50  2.50                      16.00
Disbursed, April 03                0.18   0.28    0.88  4.73  3.20  3.24  0.67    0.80  1.07  15.06




                                             - 27 -

                    Disbursements Comparison


           8.00

           6.00


Millions   4.00


        US$2.00

           0.00
                 1  2   3   4     5   6     7      8   9  10

                                                         Year


                       SAR  Amedment  Actual Disbursed




                              - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/1991                   2    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER), FINANCIAL
                                             AANALYST
              06/1991                   4    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (2)
              10/1991                   5    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (2)
              03/1992                   4    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER, INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST, ENGINEER ,
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/1992                   5    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST, ENGINEER
              03/1993                   2    TASK MANAGER
                                             (ENGINEER), ENGINEER

 Supervision

              03/18/1994                2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          2               1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              12/09/1994                4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S              HS
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFF. (1);
                                             LAWYER (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1)
              04/21/1995                2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S              HS
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              09/11/1995                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              05/24/1996                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           U               S
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              12/13/1996                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           U               S
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEEER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)



                                              - 30 -

           03/14/1997                 3 SECTOR LEADER (1);          U    S
                                        MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                        FIELD OFFICER (1)
           06/20/1998                 3 TASK MANAGER (1);           S    S
                                        INSTITUTIONAL (1);
                                        FINANCIAL ANALIST (1)
           01/21/1999                 2 TASK MANAGER (1);           S    S
                                        FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
           06/24/1999                 1 TASK MANAGER (1)            S    S
           10/22/1999                 3 TEAM LEADER (1); INST.      S    S
                                        DEVELOP. EXPERT (1);
                                        FINANCIAL EXPERT (1)
           06/2000                    2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       S    S
                                        INST. AND ENG. EXPERT (1)
           11/02/2001                 2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       S    S
                                        ENGINEER (1)
           11/02/2001                 4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       S    S
                                        FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                        ECONOMIST (1);
                                        ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                        (1)
           03/14/2003                 1 TTL (1)                     S    S
           11/07/2003                 1 TTL (1)                     S    S



 ICR
           06/2003                    1 FINANCIAL                   S    S
                                        MANAGEMENT
                                        SPECIALIST
           11/2003                    4 TASK MANAGER                S    S
                                        (ENGINEER), ENGINEER,
                                        FINANCIAL ANALYST,
                                        ECONOMIST
           03/2004                    1 TASK MANAGER                S    S
                                        (ENGINEER)

TM   Task Manager
EN   Engineer
FA   Financial Analyst
IS   Institutional Specialist
LY   Lawyer
PS   Procurement Specialist
DS   Disbursement Specialist
EC   Economist
ENV  Environmental Specialist
FMS  Financial Management Specialist
TTL  Task Team Leader




                                        - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               70                      153,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    40                      118,700
  Supervision                            322                       699,000
  ICR                                      10                       16,000
  Total                                  442                       986,000




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

List of supporting documents in ICR file, such as aide-memoire, details of IRR calculations,
comments by borrower, co-financiers and other partners, beneficiaries survey and map.

[1]     The World Bank, Report No. 11440-CR, March 8, 1993: Staff Appraisal Report, Costa
        Rica, Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
[2]     Costa Rica Law 7418, Official Gazette No. 158, August 22, 1994: World Bank 3625-CR
        Loan Approval.
[3]     E. Prado, Septiembre 1998: Elaboración de políticas de inversión y recuperación de
        costos.
[4]     Concesa, Junio 2001: Determinacion de Costos de Inversión, Operación y Mantenimiento
        para los Sistemas de Acueducto y Alcantarillado Sanitario del AyA.
[5]     AyA-OPS/OMS, Julio del 2002: Análisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en
        Costa Rica.
[6]     Vergara, Carlos, 1994: Modelo del Sistema de Planeamiento Empresarial de AyA, del
        Modelo de Presupuesto Empresarial de AyA, y de las Directrices para la Formulación del
        Plan Operativo Anual y del Presupuesto de 1995.
[7]     Marmanillo, Iris: 1995: AyA Plan de Inversiones.
[8]     Niño, Jairo, AyA, Diciembre de 1997: Propuesta de Nueva Estructura Tarifaria para AyA.
[9]     ARESEP, La Gaceta No 221 del 15 Nov 02: Aprobación de tarifas de agua potable y
        alcantarillado sanitario al AyA.
[10]    Banco Mundial, Saravia, Salinas y Sour, Marzo de 1999: Opciones Estratégicas para el
        Sector Agua y Alcantarillado, Empresa AyA, Costa Rica.
[11]    ARESEP, Mayo 2002, Decreto Ejecutivo 30413: Reglamento Sectorial para la
        Regulación de los Servicios de Acueducto y Alcantarillado Sanitario.
[12]    Contraloría General de la República, 19 Abril 2001: Nulidad Absoluta del numeral 4.3 de
        la Cláusula Cuarta del Convenio Específico No. 2 suscrito entre el AyA y la OPS el 28 de
        abril de 1994.
[13]    Consejo Nacional de Rectores (CONARE), Defensoría de los Habitantes, PNUD, 1998,
        1999, 2000, 2001: Estado de la Nación en Desarrollo Humano Sostenible.
[14]    Ministerio de la Presidencia, 2002: Establecimiento del Consejo Nacional del Agua.
[15]    ICR Preparation Misions ­ Aide Memoire, 3-7 November 2003, Aide Memoire 22-26,
        March 2004




                                               - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                                       Comentarios del Prestatario
                                             Préstamo 3625-CR

8.1 Comentarios en relación con los objetivos del proyecto

El proyecto fue concebido como un aporte a la solución de los problemas que enfrentaba el sector
de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario en general, y el Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados (AyA) en particular, al inicio de los años 90, de acuerdo a la visión sobre la
prestación de estos servicios que prevalecía en esa época.

A continuación un análisis comparativo de la situación existente en 1990 que propicio la
formulación de los objetivos del proyecto y la situación actual respecto a estos mismos criterios,
con el fin de evaluar, aunque de forma indirecta, el efecto del proyecto en la situación del sector y
del AyA.

Situación previa a la ejecución del proyecto

El "Estudio del Sector de Abastecimiento de Agua y Saneamiento de Costa Rica", elaborado por
el Banco Mundial y concluido al inicio de la década de los años 901, identificó que el sector
enfrentaba retos institucionales y financieros que, en caso de no ser resueltos, podían disminuir la
capacidad de las instituciones para continuar brindando a la población servicios de calidad y
deteriorar las condiciones ambientales en el país.

A continuación un resumen de la situación del país y del AyA en ese momento, según los criterios
que se resaltan en el informe correspondiente a este estudio:

A. El país tenía un buen nivel en cuanto a las condiciones generales de salud pública, en gran
    parte debido al mejoramiento de los servicios de agua y saneamiento en el país y
    principalmente en la GAM.

B. A pesar del abundante recurso hídrico que tiene el país, la degradación de este recurso iba en
    aumento con la consecuente preocupación por esta situación.

C. Existían numerosas leyes y reglamentos para la protección del recurso hídrico, sin embargo,
    estas normas no se cumplían principalmente debido a la compleja estructura institucional, que
    producía duplicación de responsabilidades entre diversas instituciones públicas y diluía la
    responsabilidad de estas instituciones en la aplicación de las leyes y reglamentos.


_____________________
1"Costa Rica ­ Estudio del Sector de Abastecimiento de Agua y Saneamiento". Informe N° 10070-CR. División de
Operaciones de Infraestructura, Departamento II, Región de América Latina y el Caribe, Banco Mundial.
Diciembre 30, 1991.




                                                     - 36 -

D. Se identificó el sector de agua potable y saneamiento compuesto fundamentalmente por: el
   Ministerio de Salud, el Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (AyA), el
   Instituto de Fomento y Asesoría Municipal (IFAM), los Municipios (donde se incluye la
   Empresa de Servicios Públicos de Heredia) y el Servicio Nacional de Electricidad (SNE). Se
   indica también la participación de otras instituciones públicas que tienen roles importantes
   tales como el Ministerio de Recursos Naturales, Energía y Minas (MIRENEN), la Contraloría
   General de la República y la Procuraduría General de la República.

E. Aunque en 1990, de la población total del país el 92% tenía servicio de agua potable mediante
   conexión domiciliaria y el 96% tenía acceso a algún sistema de saneamiento2, en muchos
   acueductos se presentaba un alto nivel de agua no contabilizada que comprometía la
   continuidad del servicio y provocaba la necesidad de ampliar la capacidad de producción para
   compensar las pérdidas, y la cobertura real del sistema de saneamiento era menor a la indicada
   debido a las malas condiciones en que se encontraban algunos tanques sépticos y letrinas.

F. Se estimó que las necesidades de inversión durante la década de los años 90 para lograr en el
   año 2000 a nivel de país una cobertura de 100% en agua y saneamiento (30% con
   alcantarillado sanitario y 70% con tanques sépticos y letrinas) y tratar el 50% de las aguas
   residuales de las población urbana con alcantarillado sanitario, eran de US$386 millones de
   1991 o aproximadamente US$40 millones por año (equivalente al 0.7% del PIB). De darse,
   estas inversiones casi se triplicarían las inversiones históricas, lo cual indicaba la necesidad de
   establecer una estrategia más agresiva de recuperación de costos y de un uso económico del
   agua, así como una mejora en la eficiencia de las operaciones de los servicios como una forma
   de reducir costos.

G. Debido a la existencia de distintos operadores de los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento
   en la GAM (AyA, ESPH y varios municipios) se identificaron problemas de responsabilidades
   entre estos entes operadores. Además se resalta el hecho de que las alternativas existentes
   desde esa época para satisfacer la demanda de agua en las áreas de cobertura de cada uno de
   estos operadores en forma individual, no eran económicamente viables dadas las grandes
   economías de escala asociadas con las obras de producción y tratamiento (tanto de agua
   potable como de aguas residuales).

H. Según los datos del estudio, AyA tenía bajo su responsabilidad los servicios de agua potable
   de aproximadamente el 45% de la población y la mayoría de los sistemas de alcantarillado
   sanitario existentes en el país. Además AyA brindaba apoyo técnico y financiero a áreas
   rurales concentradas (24% de la población) que administraban los servicios mediante juntas
   administradoras constituidas con ese fin. El 26% de la población se abastecía de sistemas que
   estaban bajo la responsabilidad de los municipios (o empresas municipales como la ESPH),
   estando la mayor parte de estos sistemas en situación precaria. El Ministerio de Salud tenía
   bajo su responsabilidad la atención de los servicios que abastecían al 5% de la población total.
   En relación con este aspecto se especifica que existen fuertes razones para promover al
____________________
2Mediante un sistema de alcantarillado sanitario, tanque séptico o letrina.




                                                       - 37 -

AyA como institución administradora de los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado a nivel
nacional, pero que existen fuertes restricciones organizacionales y financieras que limitan la
capacidad de AyA para asumir un rol más protagónico.

I. Se identificó como una innecesaria duplicación de responsabilidades la acción de AyA y del
   IFAM en el suministro de asistencia técnica y financiera a los municipios, asimismo se indicó
   que el subsidio que representaba el hecho de que los préstamos realizados por AyA y el IFAM
   a los municipios tuvieran tasas de interés que están por debajo de las tasas comerciales de
   mercado, no era transparente ni estaba dirigido a las poblaciones económicamente más
   necesitadas.

J. Se indica que el SNE, que tenía en ese entonces la responsabilidad de la aprobación de las
   tarifas de servicios públicos y la administración de los recursos hídricos, no tenía políticas
   tarifarias claras ni tampoco tomaba en cuenta en cuenta en la fijación de las tarifas parámetros
   de eficiencia operacional.

K. Se anota que el sector privado ha tenido un rol muy marginal en el desarrollo del sector y que
   ha estado limitado a la construcción de obras principalmente. Adicionalmente se indica que el
   sector enfrenta dos retos mayores: la necesidad de recursos financieros cuando el Gobierno
   tiene serias restricciones presupuestarias y la necesidad de incrementar la eficiencia
   empresarial, destacando que en ambos casos la participación del sector privado puede jugar un
   rol decisivo.

L. Específicamente sobre el AyA, los principales aspectos anotados en el estudio fueron.

   (a) Sobreposición de funciones entre la Presidencia Ejecutiva y la Gerencia General
   (b) Desbalance organizacional que da prioridad al área de ingeniería en detrimento de otras
       áreas tales como la financiera y la comercial
   (c) Organización muy centralizada y poca delegación de autoridad, que no favorece la
       eficiencia y el manejo ágil de los problemas operacionales diarios que se presentan en las
       ciudades alejadas de San José
   (d) Debilidad en el planeamiento empresarial
   (e) Ausencia de un sistema de información gerencial
   (f) Ausencia de indicadores de monitoreo para evaluar el desempeño de las diversas unidades
       o áreas de la institución
   (g) Bajo índice de productividad del personal (9.5 empleados por 1000 conexiones)
   (h) Altos costos de personal (66% del costo total de operación)
   (i) Ausencia de mantenimiento preventivo
   (j) Alto nivel de agua no contabilizada (56%)
   (k) Sistema de facturación comercial con limitaciones
   (l) Nivel no óptimo de micromedición
   (m)Alto nivel de cuentas por cobrar
   (n) Deterioro de la situación financiera originado en incrementos sustanciales de los costos
       operativos e incrementos tarifarios inadecuados



                                                - 38 -

   (o) Financiamiento de inversiones mediante préstamos externos en municipios no
       administrados por AyA, asumiendo el servicio de deuda de estos
   (p) Ausencia de políticas claras de recuperación de costos en la formulación de las tarifas

A partir del análisis de la situación del sector y del AyA en aquel momento, expuesta de forma
resumida en los puntos anteriores, en el informe se proponen las siguientes recomendaciones:

A nivel nacional y municipal:

1. El Gobierno debe definir, dentro del más breve plazo posible, la política de inversión para el
   sector, contemplando los siguientes factores:

   (a) Todas la inversiones deberían corresponder a la solución de mínimo costo y deberían
       financiarse en parte con la generación interna de caja y con la contribución de los usuarios
       beneficiados con dichas inversiones.

   (b) Las obras de rehabilitación deberían recibir primera prioridad.

   (c) Los requerimientos de operación, así como la capacidad operativa del ente responsable del
       mantenimiento deberían ser considerados.

   (d) Las inversiones o deben ser subsidiadas a través de tasas de interés por debajo de las tasas
       comerciales de mercado. Los subsidios, de ser necesarios, deben ser transparentes y
       apropiadamente dirigidos a las poblaciones de menores recursos económicos.

2. El IFAM, que tiene una ventaja comparativa en el aprovisionamiento de financiamiento a los
  municipios para obras de infraestructura, debe continuar con ese rol. La ventaja comparativa de
  AyA reside en el planeamiento del sector, operaciones y apoyo técnico a los municipios, por lo
  tanto no debería continuar con el rol de intermediario financiero del sector.

3. Deben definirse dentro del más breve plazo posible, los arreglos operativos y organizacionales
  a adoptarse para los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado en la GAM, antes de que se
  ejecuten obras adicionales de estos servicios, para obviar inversiones costosas que pudieran
  afectar aún más la crítica posición financiera de AyA.

4. Debe buscarse una participación más amplia y activa del sector privado, como parte de los
  esfuerzos para incrementar la eficiencia del sector de agua y saneamiento. Para promover esta
  estrategia, AyA debe trabajar en estrecha coordinación con las autoridades nacionales así como
  con las autoridades municipales, de forma tal a eliminar las limitaciones legales, institucionales
  y políticas que pudieran existir para lograr esta participación. Debe iniciarse en el más breve
  plazo un estudio de alternativas para lograr una mayor participación del sector privado y para
  atraer fondos privados al sector.

5. Debe incrementarse la protección ambiental de los cursos de agua y desarrollar una estrategia
  de largo plazo para resolver esta problemática en forma coherente.



                                                  - 39 -

A nivel de AyA:

1. Deben definirse de forma clara las responsabilidades y líneas de autoridad del Presidente
   Ejecutivo y del Gerente General

2. Debe instituirse en AyA un área de planeamiento empresarial

3. Debe prioritariamente diseñarse e implementarse un sistema de información gerencial

4. Debe continuarse la implementación del programa de agua no contabilizada

5. Debe iniciarse el mejoramiento del área comercial, dando prioridad a los sistemas de
   facturación, a la administración y mantenimiento de la micromedición, y a la eficiencia de
   cobranza

6. Deben tomarse las acciones necesarias para mejorar los indicadores financieros

7. Debe establecerse que las tarifas de agua y alcantarillado cubran el costo económico de los
   servicios

8. Debe revisarse y modificarse la estructura tarifaria para que promueva el uso eficiente de estos
   servicios

Situación posterior a la ejecución del proyecto

A. El país ha mantenido e incluso mejorado el buen nivel en cuanto a las condiciones de salud
   pública. Las principales acciones relacionadas con el sector que han tenido influencia en esta
   situación son: a) las inversiones para el mejoramiento y ampliación de la infraestructura de los
   servicios de agua potable que se continuaron realizando durante la década de los años 90, b)
   el mejoramiento de la merece resaltarse el esfuerzo que durante los últimos 10 años se ha
   realizado en el país para: a) calidad del agua suministrada por los diferentes entes operadores,
   y c) las buenas prácticas de higiene en el hogar que tiene la población costarricense.

   En relación con este punto mejorar efectivamente la calidad del agua que se suministra a la
   población y b) incrementar la cobertura del control de la calidad del agua que permite verificar
   que esta realmente ha mejorado.

B. En relación con la salud ambiental, el sector privado ha realizado durante los últimos 10 años
   esfuerzos significativos dirigidos a reducir la contaminación, y consecuente degradación, de
   las aguas superficiales, originada en su mayor parte por los desechos de las actividades
   agroindustriales del café y de la caña de azúcar. Por otra parte, la contaminación de las aguas
   superficiales por la descarga de aguas residuales de origen urbano se ha incrementado,
   especialmente en el Area Metropolitana de San José (AMSJ) y en el resto de las principales
   ciudades del país, debido al crecimiento poblacional y al aumento de cobertura de las redes de
   recolección. Según los resultados de algunas investigaciones recientes, se ha detectado


                                                - 40 -

    contaminación de las aguas subterráneas en algunos de los acuíferos y manantiales del país de
    los cuales se extrae agua para consumo humano, posiblemente originada por los efluentes de
    los tanques sépticos que se descargan al subsuelo y por los agroquímicos utilizados en la
    agricultura.

    Los esfuerzos del sector público durante los últimos 10 años para reducir la contaminación de
    las aguas superficiales y subterráneas debido a las aguas residuales urbanas en cuyo ámbito se
    encuentra la gestión de los sistemas de alcantarillado sanitario, no han logrado resultados
    concretos, a pesar de que: a) el Gobierno de Costa Rica en 19923 indicó al Banco Mundial que
    entre sus Políticas Institucionales y de Reforma del Sector Público, en relación con los
    servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario, tenía como prioridad la reducción de la
    contaminación de los cursos de agua, especialmente en GAM y en el Río Grande de Tárcoles,
    y propiciar las acciones necesarias para el manejo integrado de las cuencas; b) se han emitido
    o modificado leyes, reglamentos y normas sobre esta temática, y c) se han constituido
    formalmente organismos para el manejo de las cuencas del Río Grande de Tárcoles y del Río
    Reventazón.

    La percepción de la magnitud del problema y de que no se han logrado resultados concretos
    se ha generalizado, de tal forma que en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo - Monseñor Víctor
    Manuel Sanabria, de la Administración Pacheco de la Espriella, 2002 ­ 2006, se indica:

         "....El Gobierno declaró prioridad el trabajo institucional en materia de recursos hídricos,
        donde urge un enorme esfuerzo de coordinación y armonía legal que resuelva los
        problemas originados del traslape de competencias de las instituciones relacionadas con el
        recurso. Lo anterior es urgente para responder de manera efectiva a las fuertes presiones
        sobre la disponibilidad del recurso hídrico, principalmente originadas en la concentración
        demográfica y la expansión urbanística. Asimismo, preocupan las presiones sobre la
        calidad del recurso, especialmente en lo relativo a la contaminación de aguas superficiales
        y subterráneas. ...."4

C. La situación respecto al bajo cumplimiento de las normas incluidas en las numerosas leyes y
    reglamentos existentes para la protección del recurso hídrico básicamente se mantiene, con
    algunas excepciones calificadas, y en general por las mismas causas identificadas en el
    "Estudio del Sector de Abastecimiento de Agua y Saneamiento de Costa Rica" publicado en
    1991.

____________________
3Anexo 17 del SAR. Oficio DM-0977-92 enviado al Sr. Lewis Preston, Presidente del Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucción y Fomento, por los señores Rodolfo Méndez y Carlos Vargas, Ministro de Hacienda y Ministro de
Planificación Nacional y Política Económica, respectivamente.
4
 Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Monseñor Victor Manuel Sanabria. Diágnostico ­ Area Temática: En Armonía con
Ambiente.




                                                      - 41 -

D. Aún cuando el Gobierno de la República en 19925 indicó al Banco Mundial que entre sus
    Políticas Institucionales y de Reforma del Sector Público en relación con estos dos servicios
    tenía como prioridad establecer dentro del Sector Salud el Subsector de Agua Potable y
    Alcantarillado Sanitario bajo la coordinación del AyA, de forma que este subsector
    comprendiera los sistemas públicos de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario, y además indicó6
    :

    · que formalizaría en el contexto legal la creación del Subsector de Agua y Alcantarillado en
        el Sector Salud;
    · que determinaría el marco organizacional y los procedimientos que deberían ser utilizados
        en el subsector de acuerdo a las políticas dadas por el Gobierno;
    · que definiría la forma en que estos mecanismos serían aplicados y el tiempo estimado para
        introducirlos en la GAM;
    · que definiría lo mismo para el resto del país; y
    · que prepararía el Plan de Acción para implantar estas actividades y las acciones a ejecutar
        hasta que el proceso fuera completado.

    actualmente no está constituido formalmente el Subsector de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
    Sanitario dentro del Sector Salud, y de igual manera no fueron definidos el marco
    organizacional, los procedimientos, los mecanismos ni el Plan de Acción para la
    implementación de la propuesta planteada en 1992.

    Sobre este tema, durante el período de ejecución del proyecto se presentaron varias
    posiciones e iniciativas, a continuación se indican las más relevantes:

    En 1995 en AyA se preparó una propuesta para el ordenamiento del Subsector que fue
    presentada a conocimiento del Gobierno Central7, específicamente del Ministerio de Reforma
    del Estado, y posteriormente del Banco Mundial. Básicamente la propuesta consistía en la
    creación de un Instituto Rector de Agua y Saneamiento (IRAS) y el marco institucional
    propuesto buscaba diferenciar los roles de los entes operadores, del ente rector y del ente
    regulador.




____________________
5Anexo 17 del SAR. Oficio DM-0977-92 enviado al Sr. Lewis Preston, Presidente del Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucción y Fomento, por los señores Rodolfo Méndez y Carlos Vargas, Ministro de Hacienda y Ministro de
Planificación Nacional y Política Económica, respectivamente.
6Anexo 20 del SAR. Términos de Referencia ­ Marco Institucional y Políticas Sectoriales.
7Oficio DPE-2093-96 de fecha 15 de mayo de 1996 enviado por la Dra. Anna Gabriela Ross, Presidente Ejecutivo
de AyA, al Ing. Ventura Bengoechea, Oficial del Proyecto del Banco Mundial.




                                                      - 42 -

    En el año 1998, se le presenta al Banco Mundial el criterio del nuevo Gobierno que asumía
    funciones, respecto a la necesidad de la reforma del marco institucional para la prestación de
    los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario8. En resumen en esta nota el Ministro
    de Salud indica que el AyA de acuerdo a las leyes vigentes tiene dos misiones claramente
    definidas: a) la rectoría en el sector de agua potable, alcantarillado sanitario y pluvial,
    conservación de cuencas hidrográficas y protección ecológica, y b) la administración de los
    sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario en todo el territorio nacional. Asimismo
    indica que el Gobierno de la República avala y apoya todos los esfuerzos que AyA propone en
    su Plan Estratégico con el propósito de lograr el establecimiento de una sola y única política
    reguladora para el funcionamiento de todos los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado
    sanitario del país, propiciando como eje central de esta estrategia la autosuficiencia financiera,
    para lograr de esta forma la sostenibilidad que requieren todos los sistemas. Aunque no lo
    expresa explícitamente en la nota, del texto se infiere que el Gobierno no considera necesario
    implementar ninguna reforma del marco institucional y que más bien lo que se requiere es
    implementar en todo su alcance la Ley Constitutiva del AyA; criterio manifestado
    explícitamente por el Presidente Ejecutivo de AyA que había asumido funciones en mayo de
    1998.

    · Posteriormente, durante el período comprendido entre mayo del 2001 y abril del 2002, se
        elabora con recursos del préstamo el "Análisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
        de Costa Rica". Como resultado de este proceso se proponen dos escenarios para el
        desarrollo del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, a) el primero que implica la
        implementación de las políticas, estrategias y acciones propuestas en el Análisis Sectorial,
        y b) el segundo que plantea no realizar ningún cambio, lo que significa mantener las
        mismas políticas y estrategias que vienen operando en la actualidad.

           Como se indica en el Informe Final del estudio, en el primer escenario se parte del hecho de que
           el sector no será capaz de resolver sus problemas sin cambios importantes en su estructura y
           concepción actual. Que el AyA debe segregarse en sus dos funciones incompatibles: la rectoría
           del Estado en agua potable y saneamiento, y la operación de los sistemas. La primera, como
           función básica del Estado se propone que debe permanecer en un Instituto Rector del Sector de
           Agua Potable y Saneamiento, organismo planificador, financiador, asesor del Estado y de los
           operadores, ejecutor de los programas en el área rural y en el cual resida el sistema de
           información del sector. La segunda sería una sociedad anónima de operación de sistemas, que
           sea responsable de esta operación en el Area Metropolitana de San José y en las demás
           ciudades donde lo convenga con los titulares del servicio, en franca competencia con operadores
           privados que deberán formarse y promocionarse. Este escenario pretende que la transformación
           del sector sea oportuna y que evolucione de la situación actual a la propuesta mediante un
           proceso nacional concesuado y de mucho menor impacto que el que se daría en una crisis
           generalizada.

____________________
8Oficio DM-3890-98 de fecha 24 de setiembre de 1998 enviado por el Dr. Rogelio Pardo Evans al Banco Mundial.




                                                   - 43 -

            En el segundo escenario, el sector continuará brindando los servicios hasta tanto se lleven a
            cabo las reformas propuestas. La duración de este escenario será tan larga como tarde el Estado
            en llevar a cabo las reformas, y se puede decir que esta es la alternativa de no reforma. De
            suceder esta opción, se continuaría con la situación actual, y el Estado tendría que inyectar
            dinero al sector para ir resolviendo los problemas más agudos y las crisis que se vayan
            presentando en los sistemas, hasta que la insostenibilidad tenga más peso que la decisión de no
            hacer nada, situación en la que las reformas serán más violentas y dolorosas.

    Como se indicó al inicio de este punto, sobre este tema, no existen cambios sustantivos
    respecto a la situación existente en 1992, y tal vez el aspecto fundamental que contribuyó al
    hecho de que no se haya logrado ni siquiera la implementación parcial de la propuesta
    planteada por el Ministro de Planificación en 1992 y de ninguna de las posteriores iniciativas
    presentadas durante el período de ejecución del proyecto, fue que el Gobierno, responsable de
    ejecutar en conjunto con el AyA el componente A.1 del proyecto9, nunca participó
    efectivamente en la ejecución y desarrollo de este componente.

    La experiencia demuestra que los cambios profundos y estructurales generalmente no
    germinan dentro de las mismas organizaciones y que la resistencia al cambio es uno de los
    principales responsables de los fracasos de los procesos de cambio. Es pertinente indicar que
    hoy, a pesar de la existencia del Análisis Sectorial y de la contundencia de sus conclusiones, la
    mayor parte de los funcionarios de AyA y de los Directivos de la institución no están de
    acuerdo en la necesidad de la reforma del sector, que obviamente implica la reforma de AyA.
    Este aspecto debe constituirse en una lección y dado que el tema se mantiene vigente, de darse
    una futura operación de crédito donde este tema se incluya, la responsabilidad por su
    ejecución deberá estar totalmente fuera del AyA y preferiblemente debe estar al más alto nivel
    en el Gobierno, posiblemente bajo la responsabilidad de los jerarcas de los ministerios de
    Salud y Planificación Nacional.

E. En relación con el mejoramiento de la gestión y expansión de los servicios, en la nota del
    Ministro de Planificación de 1992, el Gobierno indicó al Banco Mundial lo siguiente:

     · que al año 2000 el AyA tendría bajo su administración todos los sistemas públicos de agua
        potable y alcantarillado sanitario del país, de acuerdo con lo que se indica en su Ley
        Constitutiva,
     · que se mantendría la cobertura y calidad del servicio de agua potable y se incrementaría la
        del alcantarillado sanitario, especialmente en la GAM y otras áreas urbanas;
     · que los organismos operadores del servicio de agua potable garantizarían la calidad del
        agua suministrada en todo el país, según lo establecido en la Ley General de Salud y de
        acuerdo a las directrices emanadas del Ministerio de Salud.

    A pesar de las políticas establecidas por el Gobierno en 1992, en la actualidad el AyA tiene
    bajo su administración directa un conjunto de acueductos que suministran agua al 46% de la
____________________
9Según se indica en la Sección 3.01 (a) del Convenio de Préstamo 3625-CR.




                                                      - 44 -

población del país. Por otra parte, mediante acueductos cuya gestión ha sido delegada a juntas
comunales, suministra agua a un 22% de esta misma población10.

    En el año 2000, a nivel nacional, la cobertura de suministro de agua mediante sistemas
    públicos de acueductos fue del 89.4% y la de los sistemas de alcantarillado sanitario del
    21.1%. En cuanto al tratamiento de las aguas residuales recolectadas de la población urbana
    con alcantarillado sanitario, solamente se trata el 4%; y el 98% de la población tenía acceso a
    algún sistema de saneamiento (alcantarillado sanitario, tanque séptico, letrina o pozo negro).
    Esta situación es muy similar a la existente en el país al inicio de la década de los años 90, lo
    que refleja que las inversiones realizadas en los últimos años han permitido mantener la
    cobertura de agua, pero no incrementar la cobertura de los alcantarillados sanitarios como
    estaba previsto.

    La calidad del agua suministrada a la población ha mejorado considerablemente en los últimos
    años, de forma paralela al incremento de las acciones de control de la calidad de la misma.
    Durante el año 2000 fue sometida a vigilancia de su calidad el agua que consumió el 88.2% de
    la población del país, y según los resultados de los análisis realizados el 70.8% de la población
    recibió agua de calidad potable11. Ambos valores se han continuado incrementando en los
    últimos años.

    Los altos niveles de agua no contabilizada en los sistemas mantienen a este como uno de los
    principales problemas que enfrenta el sector, pues aún en la mayoría de los acueductos del
    país se presentan valores entre el 40 y el 50%.

    En el caso específico de los acueductos que gestiona directamente el AyA, los efectos
    esperados con la ejecución del proyecto no se lograron debido básicamente a la reducción del
    préstamo en US$10 millones (38.5% del monto original) que en su mayoría afectó el
    Componente B: Programa de Reducción del Agua No Contabilizada.

F. En lo que respecta a las inversiones, es importante anotar, que la situación expuesta el punto
    D también obstaculizó la definición de una verdadera política de inversión para el sector. Al
    estar alejado el Gobierno del proceso de discusión de la necesidad de reformar o modernizar
    el sector, las propuestas en cuanto a inversión originadas en AyA se han limitado a los
    sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario que están bajo su responsabilidad y a los
    acueductos cuya administración está delegada a juntas comunales. Aún así, la inversión
    efectivamente realizada por AyA para la rehabilitación, ampliación y mejoramiento de la
    gestión en estos sistemas desde 1992, no ha sido la necesaria y ha estado limitada por las
    políticas fiscales, con el consecuente deterioro paulatino en la prestación del servicio.

____________________
10Análisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Sanitario. Página 182.
11Análisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Sanitario. Página 183.




                                                      - 45 -

   El actual Gobierno y los anteriores, no han definido una política nacional de inversión para el
   sector de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario. Basados en el deficiente desempeño de la
   mayoría de los municipios en su condición de operadores de los servicios, no han brindado su
   apoyo para el endeudamiento de las
   municipalidades que buscan este mecanismo para la ampliación y mejoramiento de los
   sistemas que tienen a cargo, pero tampoco han propuesto otras alternativas para el desarrollo
   de estos sistemas.

   Es indiscutible el hecho de que la política de inversión que el Gobierno debe definir para el
   sector debe ir en paralelo con la reforma y transformación del mismo y acorde a la situación
   económica del país, buscando niveles de eficiencia adecuados en los operadores, tarifas que
   cubran los costos reales y nuevos mecanismos de financiamiento, incluso el financiamiento
   privado.

   La presión que provocará en los próximos años las necesidades de inversión en el sector, que
   se estimaron en el Análisis Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en aproximadamente
   US$1,600 millones para los primeros 20 años de este siglo (dólares del 2000), en caso de que
   se decida avanzar en el incremento de la cobertura de los sistemas de alcantarillado sanitario
   en las áreas urbanas, provocará que no se pueda postergar por mucho tiempo el inicio de las
   discusiones sobre la reforma y modernización del sector.

G. La problemática relacionada con los conflictos por las responsabilidades entre los diversos
   entes operadores de los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento que actúan en la GAM se
   mantiene casi sin ninguna variación. Esta situación está directamente relacionada con la
   inacción en cuanto a la reforma o modernización del sector referida en el punto D.

H. A pesar del criterio expuesto en el "Estudio del Sector de Abastecimiento de Agua y
   Saneamiento de Costa Rica" en el sentido de que se consideraba razonable promover al AyA
   como institución administradora de los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado a nivel
   nacional, tal y como está establecido en la Ley Constitutiva de la institución, esto no se ha
   implementado y el AyA actualmente continúa con la responsabilidad directa por el suministro
   de agua al 46% de la población del país.

   Esto se debe a que existe una fuerte resistencia en la mayoría de las localidades donde las
   municipalidades aún son responsables por la administración de los servicios de agua y/o
   alcantarillado sanitario a que AyA asuma la gestión de estos sistemas, básicamente por el
   incremento de las tarifas que esta decisión implica y por los sentimientos de pertenencia
   respecto a los sistemas.

   En la propuesta de reforma que fue resultado del Análisis Sectorial, se propone un desarrollo
   diferente en el modelo de gestión de los sistemas, que incluye fundamentalmente la gestión del
   AyA operador en el AMSJ y en otras área urbanas, la gestión de operadores comunales
   similares a los que actualmente ya existen, la gestión de directa de municipalidades o empresas
   municipales, y la gestión de operadores privados o mixtos. La posibilidad de un AyA como
   único administrador de los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario a nivel nacional


                                               - 46 -

   es un escenario que no se considera viable hoy ni en el futuro.

I. En la actualidad, solo el IFAM está facilitando asistencia financiera a los municipios para la
   ejecución de inversiones relacionadas con los servicios de agua, sin embargo muy limitada.

J. Con la aprobación de la ley de la Autoridad Reguladora de los Servicios Públicos al inicio de
   la década de los años 90, se inició un nuevo período en cuanto a los procesos de aprobación
   de las tarifas de los servicios públicos en el país. Paulatinamente, la ARESEP ha ido
   evolucionando e incorporando en su quehacer políticas tarifarias definidas, así como también
   está exigiendo a sus regulados el cumplimiento de parámetros de eficiencia operacional.

K. La participación del sector privado en el desarrollo del sector de agua potable y alcantarillado
   sanitario se mantiene aún limitada al planeamiento, diseño y construcción de obras
   principalmente.

   En el AyA, con el objetivo de lograr incrementar la eficiencia empresarial en unos casos y para
   cubrir necesidades para las cuales la institución no tiene los recursos disponibles, desde hace
   varios años se han contratado diversas actividades en varios campos.

   Durante el período comprendido entre los años 1998 y 2002 se realizaron acciones con el
   objetivo de ejecutar el proyecto de rehabilitación y ampliación del alcantarillado sanitario de
   San José mediante la participación del sector privado en el financiamiento, operación y
   mantenimiento de las obras mediante la modalidad de BOT, proceso que se decidió suspender
   por considerarse que no era conveniente para los intereses institucionales. Por su parte, el
   Banco Mundial brindó en el Anexo 1 de la Ayuda Memoria de la Misión de Octubre de 1999
   sus comentarios sobre este proceso.


L. Más del 90% los recursos del préstamo y de la contrapartida asignados al proyecto, fueron
   dirigidos a apoyar al AyA, y de esta forma lograr implementar soluciones a los principales
   problemas organizacionales, operativos, comerciales, financieros, tarifarios, etc., que habían
   sido identificados en el "Estudio del Sector de Abastecimiento de Agua y Saneamiento de
   Costa Rica" realizado por el Banco Mundial en 1991.

   Con este fin se ejecutaron exitosamente los componentes C y D del proyecto, con los cuales
   se realizaron importantes obras para el mejoramiento y ampliación del acueducto
   metropolitano de San José y para incrementar la cobertura de recolección del alcantarillado
   sanitario de San José, respectivamente. También se ejecutó con éxito el componente E, que
   cubría dos necesidades identificadas como urgentes en 1990: a) la reducción de la
   vulnerabilidad de la conducción del Proyecto Orosi, obra que había sido construida con
   financiamiento del Banco Mundial y de la Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
   del Gobierno del Reino Unido, y b) el fortalecimiento del área de mantenimiento del sistema
   de alcantarillado sanitario de San José.

   El componente B del proyecto, que correspondió al Programa de Agua No Contabilizada, fue
   el más afectado con la reducción de los US$10 millones en el monto del préstamo, pues este


                                                 - 47 -

    componente tenía originalmente asignados US$10.8 millones y después de la cancelación
    quedo con una asignación de US$7.0 millones. Con los recursos de préstamo y contrapartida
    se contrató una diversidad de bienes y servicios con el objetivo de reducir, fundamentalmente
    en el acueducto metropolitano, el porcentaje de agua no contabilizada, que como se indicó
    anteriormente, en 1990 se estimaba en un 56%.

    Mención especial en relación con este componente merecen la adquisición e instalación de 110
    mil hidrómetros y 67 mil cajas de protección, de los elementos primarios y secundarios de las
    instalaciones de macromedición en el acueducto metropolitano, de los medidores Woltman
    para la macromedición de la producción en los principales acueductos del resto del país, de los
    equipos de comunicación y transmisión de datos (antenas, torres, radios, PLCs, etc.) y del
    software para el sistema de control operacional del acueducto metropolitano de San José. A
    pesar de que originalmente estaba previsto ejecutar con el proyecto acciones relacionadas con
    el catastro de redes, catastro de usuarios y reemplazo de conexiones en el acueducto
    metropolitano, estas no se ejecutaron debido a la cancelación parcial de los US$10 millones de
    los fondos del préstamo.

    Durante los dos semestres del año 2003 se estimó que los porcentajes de agua no
    contabilizada, consolidados para el conjunto de acueductos a cargo de cada una de las seis
    regiones de AyA eran los siguientes12 :

       Región                      Primer semestre 2003               Segundo semestre 2003
       Metropolitana                            47.2%                            48.9%
       Brunca                                   46.2%                            47.6%
       Chorotega                                31.9%                            39.4%
       Huetar Atlántica                         68.4%                            68.5%
       Central                                  42.6%                            51.6%
       Pacífico Central                         41.8%                            46.1%

    Según lo indicado por la Región Metropolitana, al 31 de diciembre del 2003 el estado de los
    principales indicadores operativos de gestión en el acueducto metropolitano era el siguiente13:

    · Tiempo promedio de instalación de nuevas conexiones: 4 días
    · Tiempo promedio de atención de fugas en redes de distribución: 3 días
    · Tiempo promedio de atención de fugas en medidores: 3 días
    · Micromedición (% de conexiones con medidor): 93.3%
    · Macromedición (% respecto al volumen producido): 90%

    El principal producto de este componente, es sin duda el Sistema Comercial Integrado. Este
    sistema se ha convertido en una excelente herramienta administrativa e informática para la

____________________
12Estimación del % de ANC. Dirección Operación de Sistemas. Juan Carlos Vindas.
13Indicadores de Gestión Región Metropolitana. Archivo: Indicadores ­ Avance al 31 de diciembre del 2003.doc.
 Manuel López.



                                                    - 48 -

    gestión comercial, ha permitido la descentralización real de las operaciones comerciales
    manteniendo el control centralizado, además ha sido el medio para resolver casi en su
    totalidad los problemas relacionados con la gestión comercial que se identificaban en el año
    1990.

    Los índices de la gestión comercial, consolidados para todos los sistemas de AyA,
    correspondientes al mes de diciembre del 2003 eran los siguientes14:

    · Razón de facturación (Fact. Neta/ Fact. Bruta): 90.06%
    · % de anomalías (Servicios con anomalías/Servicios facturados): 3.31%
    · Eficiencia en la cobranza (Cobranza/Facturación Neta del mes anterior: 101.85%
    · % de desviación en la facturación (Fact. Neta/Fact. Proyectada): 98.16%
    · % de desviación en la cobranza (Cobranza real/Cobranza proyectada): 98.77%
    · % de micromedición (conexiones con medidor/conexiones totales): 94.42%
    · Periodo medio de cobro: 2.15 meses

    Los subcomponentes A.2, A.3 y A.4 del proyecto, también estaban dirigidos únicamente a
    fortalecer el AyA. En cuanto al subcomponente A.2: Planeamiento Estratégico, con la
    ejecución del proyecto se ha logrado la generación de mucha información de base,
    herramientas de análisis y un cambio positivo en cuanto a la función de planificación en la
    institución, siendo un resultado concreto de este cambio la elaboración del Análisis Sectorial.
    En cuanto al subcomponente A.4: Desconcentración y Participación del Sector Privado, con
    el apoyo de los sistemas comercial y financiero/suministros se ha logrado una efectiva
    desconcentración de las operaciones diarias de rutina a nivel de las oficinas regionales, de
    forma tal que todos los movimientos comerciales, financieros, de adquisiciones y de bodegas
    se realizan en cada punto de origen, quedando pendiente en este aspecto lo relacionados con
    la administración de los recursos humano, ya la institución no cuenta con las herramientas
    necesarias para una efectiva desconcentración de esta área; en lo que respecta a la
    participación del sector privado, los resultados básicamente se han limitado a la contratación
    dispersa de servicios comerciales, asistenciales y logísticos, tales como la vigilancia de
    edificios, mantenimiento de zonas verdes, instalación de nuevas conexiones, etc. A pesar de
    que el Banco Mundial propuso en el año 1999 explorar la contratación integral de la gestión
    de pequeños acueductos alejados de la ciudad de San José, como experiencia para evaluar esta
    opción como un medio para lograr mayor eficiencia en la gestión de los pequeños acueductos,
    aún no se ha implementado.

____________________
14Cuadro de Información Comercial e Indicadores Año 2003. Dirección Comercial. Alcides Prado.




                                                   - 49 -

     Dentro del componente A el producto principal fue el diseño e implantación del Sistema
     Integrado Financiero Suministros. Entre los aspectos positivos logrados con el desarrollo de
     esta herramienta se pueden mencionar los siguientes:

     · El sistema permitió la integración de los sistemas financieros y de suministros en una sola
        plataforma, eliminando todos los diversos sistemas que anteriormente coexistían en el AyA.
     · Se establecieron procedimientos consistentes y estandarizados para las áreas involucradas
        por el sistema.
     · Se logró la sustitución de los controles manuales por controles automatizados e integrados
        de las operaciones.
     · Permitió la descentralización de las operaciones bajo una normativa centralizada,
        permitiendo el registro de la información en línea (a tiempo real).
     · Permitió una unificación de Registro en las Operaciones, es decir, información consistente,
        la información de Presupuesto, Contabilidad y Tesorería es la misma, así como la
        información de los saldos físicos de inventario con los saldos contables; la información se
        registra desde su punto de origen, sin necesidad de redigitación a las distintas áreas.
     · Permitió la generación de informes directamente del sistema, garantizando una
        transparencia absoluta en la disposición de la información.
     · Facilitó que el personal financiero se posesionara más con un perfil de análisis y no
        operativo o de registro, al descentralizar el registro de las operaciones.
     · Puso a disposición el Correo Electrónico para solicitudes, trámites y comunicaciones en
        general, eliminando el uso del papel.
     · Permitió la implementación de una Contabilidad de Costos que apoya la gestión en la
        evaluación del desempeño en sus diferentes proyectos y áreas.

     Los indicadores financieros del AyA para el año 2003 fueron los siguientes15:

     · Razón de trabajo: 0.67
     · Indice de operación. 0.87
     · Resultado neto % Ingreso operativo: 2%
     · Rotación cartera (en días): 82
     · Cobertura servicio de deuda (veces): 2.20
     · % de inversión con generación interna: 72%
     · Indice corriente: 1.2
     · Deuda a largo plazo/Patrimonio: 0.31
     · Deuda total/Patrimonio. 0.38
     · Deuda/Ingresos operativos: 1.27
     · Costo de personal/Costo operativo: 0.49
     · Crecimiento de ingresos por servicio: 13%
     · Crecimiento de costos operativos: 5%
____________________
15Informe Final ­ Análisis Financiero del Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados. Luz María
González. Marzo 2004. Tabla 3. Página 6.




                                                       - 50 -

Conclusiones

De acuerdo a lo expuesto anteriormente, la ejecución del proyecto tuvo muchos resultados
tangibles y un fuerte impacto positivo en la gestión de AyA, que se refleja en este análisis
comparativo de la situación en que se encontraba la institución en 1990 y la situación actual.

Los objetivos del proyecto: "Aumentar la eficiencia operacional y consolidar la viabilidad
operacional del AyA" y "Mejorar la operación del sistema de suministro de agua y del servicio de
alcantarillado sanitario del Area Metropolitana de San José", se consideran satisfactoriamente
cumplidos.

En lo que respecta al objetivo "Mejorar el marco institucional para el suministro de agua y
servicios de alcantarillado sanitario en Costa Rica, incluyendo la promoción de la participación del
sector privado y el desarrollo e implementación de políticas sectoriales adecuadas", los resultados
han sido limitados por las razones expuestas anteriormente. No obstante, todas las acciones
realizadas durante la ejecución del proyecto en relación con este objetivo, y en especial la
elaboración del Análisis Sectorial, han permitido una mayor claridad sobre esta temática y han
provocado un mejor nivel de consciencia en algunos sectores de la sociedad sobre la necesidad de
discutir sobre el futuro del sector.

8.2 Comentarios en relación con el desempeño de AyA

El desempeño de AyA durante la ejecución del proyecto fue variable y estuvo afectado por
situaciones internas y externas que se presentaron durante esos años. A continuación, un resumen
de los que podrían considerarse los principales elementos que caracterizaron el desempeño
institucional:

    · En forma recurrrente, durante todo el período de ejecución del proyecto se presentó
       inconformidad en algunas de las autoridades de AyA con ciertos componentes del
       proyecto, especialmente con el Subcomponente A.1. Esta situación provocó que en varias
       ocasiones no se lograra avanzar realmente en la ejecución de las actividades previstas.

    · La situación indicada en el punto anterior, también provocó, durante algunos períodos
       cortos, ausencia o debilidad en cuanto al apoyo de las autoridades de AyA para la ejecución
       del proyecto, especialmente en términos presupuestarios. Esta situación fue mucho más
       evidente al inicio de la ejecución del mismo, ya que el proyecto fue negociado por una
       administración saliente y el inicio de la ejecución quedó bajo la responsabilidad de la nueva
       administración entrante, que no compartía en su totalidad los criterios bajo los que fue
       negociado el proyecto y por ende el empréstito.

    · Debilidad institucional para desempeñar una correcta contraparte en los contratos de
       consultoría. Este aspecto fue especialmente crítico en el desarrollo de los sistemas
       comercial y financiero-suministros, ya que en ningún momento se pudieron asignar la
       totalidad de funcionarios de contraparte que los consultores indicaban que se requerían, así
       como tampoco se lograron oportunamente los incentivos para el personal contraparte que


                                                 - 51 -

      debía laborar durante muchas horas más que las de su jornada ordinaria.

   · El aspecto positivo más relevante fue que no se presentó ningún cambio en la dirección
      institucional del proyecto durante todo el período de ejecución, lo cual garantizó el
      seguimiento de los acuerdos entre el Banco Mundial y el AyA, lo cual fue
      significativamente importante ante la alta rotación que se presentó con los Oficiales de
      Proyecto del Banco.

8.3 Comentarios en relación con el desempeño del Banco

Las principales observaciones de AyA en relación con el desempeño del Banco Mundial durante la
ejecución del proyecto son los siguientes:

   · Se presentó una alta rotación en los Oficiales de Proyecto, lo cual provocó que en varias
      ocasiones se presentaran cambios de rumbo en la dirección y en los criterios de
      coordinación entre ambas instituciones para la ejecución del proyecto.

   · Consecuencia de la rotación en los Oficiales de Proyecto, también fue la variabilidad de
      criterio en cuanto a la relación con el AyA y en cuanto a la interpretación de lo acordado en
      el Convenio de Préstamo

   · Durante la mayor parte del período de ejecución del proyecto, los representantes del Banco
      Mundial responsables del seguimiento del proyecto, no lograron ninguna comunicación con
      las autoridades del Gobierno, las cuales tenían una responsabilidad directa en la ejecución
      del Subcomponente A.1. Esta situación también fue causa de que en muchas ocasiones los
      criterios institucionales prevalecieran sobre los criterios de Gobierno, ya que los
      representantes del Banco no los conocieron.




                                                - 52 -

Additional Annex 9. Letter on Government Policy to the Sector




                                        - 53 -

- 54 -

Additional Annex 10. Maps




                             - 55 -

- 56 -

