Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3625-CR
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 28, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3625-CR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y 
ALCANTARILLADOS (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,  have requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty six million dollars ($26,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake 
such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations as provided in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement 
have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds 
as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out, jointly with the
Borrower, Part A.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with sound technical, financial, administrative, environmental and managerial 
standards, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)
As part of, and without limitation to, the foregoing, the Guarantor shall 
take, or cause to be taken, all action on its part as provided in Schedule 6 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the 
Guarantor undertakes to take all action on its part as necessary to enable the 
Borrower to comply with its obligations
set forth in Sections 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05 of, and Schedule 6 to, the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor undertakes to participate in the annual reviews 
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Avenida Central - Calle 20
Apartado Postal 5016
1000 - San Jose, 
Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MINHAC - CR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Gonzalo Facio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  4
