Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10779
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
JUNE 16, 1992
MIC' CU1CE   COP7Y
Repc,rt ,No.       (-4PU Typf         u':
WT< ./ .X.1i'    /' TS I)/ OB'DD:
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Departument II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Forints (ft.)
Exchange rate at the end of the following years:
1986        1 US$ = ft. 45.3
1987        1 US$ = ft. 46.4
1988        1 US$ = ft. 52.5
1989        1 US$ = ft. 62.5
1990        1 US$ = ft. 61.5
1991 (mid)   US$ = ft. 77.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                      US System
1 meter (m)                 =      3.2808  feet (ft)
21 kilometer (km)           =      0.6324  mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)  =       0.3861 sq. mile (Mi2)
I metric ton (m ton)               0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 ki'logram (kg)            =      2.2046 pounds (lbs)



FOR OlmICIL USE ONLY
THdE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Direct(W,Genet#l
Opertatm EvAluation
June 23, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Hungary Transport (Rail/Road) Project
(Loan 2557-HU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Hungary Transport (Rail/Road) Project (Loan 2557-HU)"
prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfnac
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a thofiztion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ECE            Economic Commission for Europe
ER//IRR        Economic Return/Internal Rate of Return
FYR            First Year Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GTKm           Gross Ton Kilometer
HC             Hungarocamion International Freight Company
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Company Bidding
KTI            Hungarian Institute of Transport Science
LCB            Local Competition Bidding
LIB            Limited Irternational Bidding
MAV            Hungarian State Railways
MOF            Ministry of Financt
MTCWM (MOT)    Ministry of Transport, Communication and Water Management
MSC            Maintenance Sub-center
M-O            Budapest By-pass (motorway)
NBH            National Bank of Hungary
NPO            National Planning Office
NtKm           Net Ton Kilometer
PCR            Project Completion Report
?Km            Passenger Kilometer
Pd Km          Productive Kilometers
PRD            Public Roads Department of MTCWM
PRMC           Public Road management Centers
RF             Revolving Fund
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SCD            Supervision and Control Department
SDB            State Development Bank
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
TDD            Technical Development Department of MTCWM
TEM            Trans-European Motorway
TU             Traffic Units
UIC            International Railway Union
UNICONSULT     United Transport Consulting Firm, Hamburg
UTIBER         Hungarian Investment Management Firm
UTITORM        Government Mechanical Branch
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRQrECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                  i
Evaluation Summary                                                       ii
PART I     PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANIKIS PERSPECTIVE
I       Project Identity                                               1
II      Background                                                     1
III     Project Objectives and Description                             2
Description of the Project                                 3
IV      Project Design and Organization                                3
V       Project Implementation                                         5
Loan Effectiveness                                         5
Implementation Schedule                                    5
Procurement                                                6
Project Costs and Financing                                7
Disbursement                                               7
Loan Covenants                                             7
VI      Project Results                                                7
Physical Targets                                           8
Economic Performance                                       8
Financial Performance                                     10
Technical Assistance and Training                         11
VII     Project Sustainability                                        11
VIII    Bank Performance                                              12
IX      Borrower Performance                                          13
X       Bank-Borrower Relationship                                    13
XI      Consulting Services                                           13
XII     Project Documentation Data                                    13
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface                                                        14
Summary of Railway. Highway and Hungarocamion Components       15
Railway Component (MAV)                                        15
Highway Component (annexes attached)                           19
Hungarocamion Component                                        21



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION:
Table I - Related Bank Loans                                              63
Table 2 - Project TimetablA                                               64
Table 3 - Loan Disbursements                                              65
Table 4 - Project Implementation                                          66
Table 5(A) and (B) - Project Costs and FPnancing                          67
Table 6(A) through (F) with attachments - Project Results                 69
Table 7 - Status of Covenants                                             77
Table 8(A) and (B) - Use of Bank Resources                                79
Annex 1   -List of Equipment Procured                                     81
Annex 2   -Traffic Trends                                                 8
Annex 3   - Audited Financial Statements (1985-1990)                      86
Annex 4   - Key Indicators for Hungarian Railways and
Hungarocamion Operation (1980-90)                               92
MAP - IBRD 18773R Hungary - Transport (Rail/Road) Prc0ect



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Transport
(Rail/Road) Project in Hungary for which Loan 2557-HU in the amount of US$75
million was approved on May 28, 1985. The Loan was closed on June 30. 1991.
on schedule. The entire Loan amount of US$75 million was disbursed.
This Completion Report (Parts I and III) was prepared by the
Infrastructure Division (EMTIN) of the Technical Department of the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa (EMENA) Region. The report is based on
information obtained from Project files in the EMENA Information Center, Sta'.
Appraisal Report No.5477-HU of April 30. 1985 for a Transport (Rail/Road)
Project. President's Report, Staff Supervision Reports, procurement documents
and several working papers prepared in connection with the project in the
EMENA Region. Part II. namely a Project Review from the Borrower's
Perspective, was prepared ;vy the Borrower.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
1.          The project was designed mainly to assist Hungary to increase the
efficiency of the transport sector, conserve energy and improve the sector's
earnings of convertible currencies. The project also aimed at easing critical
transport bottlenecks on Hungary's principal highway and railway networks,
vital to international trade, and addressed the need for timely maintenance of
the existing tranaport network. In addition. the project included technical
assistance, training and institution building, the benefits of which would
permeate the entire economy (para. 3.01). The project objectives have been
substantially achieved (paras 6.01 - 6.14).
Implementation ExDerience
2.          The Hungarian People's Republic, the Borrower, with the
participation of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH), the Ministry of Transport
(MOT), Hungarian Railways (MAV) and Hungarocamion international freight
company (HC), carried out the project. The investment management firm UTIBER
was engaged by MOT to provide overall coordination of all project-related
activities. Each executing agency, namely MAV, HC and MOT, appointed an
officer who was responsible for all project-related matters cf the respective
agency and served as a counterpart to UTIBER's coordinating staff. The entire
arrangement proved satisfactory throughout project img,1mentation (para 4.05).
3.          The Loan was signed on June 4, 1985, and once it became effective
(June 10, 1985) as planned, the project progressed smoothly. A substantial
number of project components proceeded according to schedule and were
completed on target with minor variations (up to a maximum of six months). In
the case of modernization of the Ferenevaros marshalling yard, however, there
was a delay of about two years mainly due to the inclusion of environmental
protection works - such as sound barriers - required by recent legislation,
and to construction of the maintenance workshop and health facilities at the
first stage instead of at a later stage as previously planned. The quality of
construction of civil works was, in general, satisfactory (para. 5.02).
4.          This was the first Bank-financed transport project in Hungary.
Preparation of civil works bid documents was somewhat slow to start with
because of the unfamiliarity of the project executing agencies with Bank
procedures and requirements. Retroactive financing for professional
assistance in the preparation of technical specifications and other bid
documents included in the project in the English language for the proposed ICB
helped speed up the process (para. 5.04).
5.          The project encountered no serious procurement problems.  At an
early date, the Bank mission found that the technical specifications,
schedules of delivery and Bill of Quantities (List of Unit Prices) prescribed
at the time of bid invitation needed amplification to nermit an adequate
response from international competitors, but the Borrower readily revised the



- iv -
necessary documents and on the whole procurement action proceeded
satisfactorily (para. 5.06). At the Bank's initiative the country did
introduce ICB in major civil works (the Budapest by-pass with two major
bridges on the river Danube). This was a major breakthrough. The
prequalification and bidding process served as a learning process. For the
first time a comprehensive set of Hungarian specifications for road and bridge
construction was assembled (para. 4.02). The arrangement of a procurement
seminar in Budapest at the early stage of project execution to familiarize
project-related officials with the state-of-the-art on procurement issues and
uiith Bank requirements proved very useful (para. 5.09).
6.          The project's two technical studies were also of good quality.
More importantly, implementation of major study recommendations made with
regard to the road user contribution is already in progress and as a first
step, taxes on heavv freight vehicles have been increased. Similarly, stud)
recommendations contained in the information/marketing management of the
international freight agency served as an important input to the Bank-financed
Second Transport Project in Hungary (para. 5.03). The training program,
though initially lagging behind, picked up momentum during project execution
and ultimately proved very useful (para. 6.14).
7.          UTIBER, the project co-ordinating agency, carried out its
responsibilities commendably during the project implementation stage. These
responsibilities include all fieldwork in connection with expropriation and
land acquisition, control of conformance with project specifications,
measurement of work quantities and approval of contractors' invoice for
payments. Progress reporting of the project to the Bank was also on schedule
(para. 5.05).
Results
8.          The estimated cost of the transport (rail/road) project at
appraisal was US$215.5 million. The final cost came to US$196.2 million
(Table 5A and para. 5.10). The decrease in total cost of about 9% in terms of
US dollars was due to savings in the estimated cost of major highway civil
works because of intense competition in response to ICB (paras 5.07 and 5.09)
and unforeseen changes in the exchange rates (para 5.10). The Bank played a
major role as a catalyst to enlist co-financing from other international
financing agencies and only MAV was required to finance a part of the project
costs, the balance being fully met from the Bank Loan and assistance from
other interrational agencies (para. 5.10 and Table 5 B). Actual disbursements
were consistently faster than the appraisal estimates excepting at the very
late stage mainly to accommodate the procurement of some specialized equipment
such as the freezing forecast system (para. 5.11, Tables 3 & 4 Part III and
Annex 1) allowing sufficient time to cover performance guarantees. The Loan
was closed on June 30, 1991, on schedule (para. 5.11).
9.          Overall, the project was successful in meeting its principal
objectives (paras I and 6.01). Modernization of the Ferencvaros marshalling
yard and construction of the first stage of the Budapest by-pass along with
two major bridges on the river Danube were already showing results in
facilitating the smooth movement of both passenger and freight traffic.
Acquisition of fuel-efficient trucks by HC improved its operational
efficiency, helped conserve energy and increased its revenue-earning capacity
substantially with better competitive strength. Provision of equipment for



v 
container handling and road maintenance imp oved interface facilities between
rail and road and reduced the journey time significantly (paras 6.01. and
6.08).
10.         Taking into account the latest traffic trend and important
project-related indications, the revised economic rates of return (ERRS), have
been calculated. The revised ERRs compare favorably with the appraisal
estimates with some minor variations depending on the actual sub-project
costs, time of completion and traffic trends. All the project components
remain well justified and the overall project remains economically sound as
appraised with a weighted ER of e.bout 20X (paras 6.04-6.08 and Tables 6A (1
and 2) and 6B Part III).
11.         The financial performance of the railways during 1985-89 did not
come up to appraisal expectations (paras 6.09 and 6.10). Until 1984, despite
having to carry commuter passenger traffic at below-cost fares, MAV covered
all operating costs through tariff revenues. This is no longer the case,
although freight traffic still covers its costs and provides - surplus. MAV's
operating ratios and rates of return on set fixed assets deteriorated
significantly during this period. The financial performance of the railways
was influenced by several factors, namely the traffic pattern, taxation reform
and tariff policy. During this period freight traffic dropped significantly
(excepting container cargo) mainly as a result of slackened economic growth of
the country and its trading partners. A major reform of the Hungarian
taxation system, which was implemented during 1988, introduced value added tax
and progressive income tax on individuals. Wages were increased to compensate
workers for the new income tax. During January/February 1989, the Government
increased MAV's freight tariffs by 20%, long distance passenger fares by 30%,
and inner city fares by an average of 64%. The combination of these factors
clearly demonstrates the inadequacy of tariffs and the urgent need to reduce
unit costs (paras 6.09-6.11 and Annex 3A-C Part III). After 1989, owing to
the political and economic revolution in Hungary, both the economic and the
financial environment changed radically, and Government enterprises (including
MAV) are becoming more market-oriented. The traffic profile underwent drastic
changes in 1991 (and is still very unstable) and this will be 'ncluded in the
PCR for the ongoing Second Transport Project.
12.         The enterprise HC continued to perform efficiently and profitably.
The rate of return on net fixed assets varied between 30 and 40 percent,
showing a much better performance that 'Korecast at appraisal (Table D, Annex
3, Part III). The operating ratios for the period 1985-89 compared favorably
with the appraisal estimates for the three year period 1985-89, deteriorated
to some extent during 1988-89 mainly due to the Middl3 East situation and to
unexpected increases in its new tax obligation during 1988/89. HC's
commendable financial performance was primarily achieved by better vehicle
utilization, quicker turnaround time and improved staff productivity (Annex 4,
Table B and para. 6.13).



- vi -
Sustainability
13.         MOT, ?AV and HC are technically strong und competently managed.
Improved competition and ongoing structural adjustments in H%vngary are gaining
deeper roots. The Government intends to continue the policy of free market
competition with main reliance on pricing measures. The Government has also
decided to reduce transport subsidization significant'y before 1993. With
these developments, there is reasonable expectation that project benefit will
be sustained. It is, however, necessary to review the adequacy of railway
tariffs continuously and take urgent measures to reduce railway unit costs
(paras 11 and 7.01).
Findings and lessons learnt
14.         The project has been successful ir meeting most of it3 objectives.
excepting the overall operational and financial performance of tne Hungarian
railways. A number of lessons have been learnt and these are:
(i)  Introduction of ICB for major highway civil works was an important
breakthrough, providing an excellent opportunity to familiarize
the concerned authorities with the state-of-the-art of procurement
procedures and resulting in substantial cost savings (paras 4.02.
5.06, 5.07 and 8.01(a));
(ii) Provision of an uverall coordinating agency for all project-
related activities with appropriate an counterpart from each
project executing agency is a step in the right direction (paras
4.05 and 8.01(b));
(iii) In a country like Hungary, where the English language is less
familiar, the provision of retroactive financing for professional
assistance in the preparation of the technical specificatioas and
other bid document details in clear English is well-conceived
(paras 5.04 and 8.0l(c)), and;
(iv) Establishment of a Special Account (revolving fund) greatly
facilitated the timely flow of funds to the beneficiaries to
finance eligible project expenditures with minimum administrative
delay and should be a welcome feature in all such Bank-financed
projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Transport (Rail/Road) Pxoject
Loan No.          2557-HU
RVP Unit:         EMTIN
Countrr:          Hungary
S3ctor:           Transport
Sub-sector:       Railways, Highways and Road Transport
II. Background
2.01     Hungary is a landlocked country in Central East Europe with a
diversified transport network to integrate its 93,000 sq.km. of territory and
to serve the needs of its population of about 11 million. The transport
system consists of about 8.000 km of rail, 30,000 km of arterial roads. 1,300
km of regularly navigable rivers and canals, one international airport and a
fairly large oil and gas pipeline network. Railways and roads are the
backbone of the transport system and, together, carry about 75X of total
freight traffic and more than 951 of passenger traffic. As a landlocked
country, t-unk routes and international connections are of special concern
because Hungary has borders with five countries (see IBRD Map 18773R) and aims
to improve its integration with the world economy.
2.02     Hungary's economy has grown rapidly since World War II with per
capita income in real terms rising about 5% per annum between 1960 and 1980.
During the same period, total freight traffic also grew at about 5-6% per
annum, public p^ senger transport at about 21 per annum, with the proportion
of private tratusport, however, increasing continuously at about 15-20% per
annum. With the slackening of world economic growth, including that of
Hungary. traffic declined in the early eighties and thereafter remained fairly
stable. Foreign trade activities are of vital importance for the Hungarian
economy and in the 1980s, of the total transported tonnage e,f about 350
million per annum (in public transport), export/import trade accouinted for
more than 30 million tons per annum (excluding pipeline traffic) and was
carried predominantly by rail. The Hungarian railways rank among the leading
transport enterprises in Europe.
2.03     The transport sector contributes a significant share to the foreign
exchange earnings of the national economy. Out of the gross foreign exchange
currency income of about US$200-250 million per annum in the transport sector
in the 1980s, about 66-68% was generated by the transportation of goods, about



- 2 -
17-19% by passengers and the balance by other activities such as train car
rent fees, foreign tourismu etc. At present, the principal task for the sector
is to develop transport on the trunk routes and remove crucial bottlenecks
including arrears in road and track maintenance, particularly those which
affect international and transit trade to which the Government attaches a high
priority.
2.04     Transport investments in the pu;ic sector aceounted for about 14% of
Hungary's total investments in the last two decades. Iovest-nts in the road
and rail sub-sectors accounted for about 85-90% of the sector :otal, the
balance being made up cc river port, shipping, aviation and pipcline
investments. Investments in the transport sector are primarily aimed at (a)
improvement of foreign exchange earnings, (b) increased operational efficiency
and reduction of unit costs, and (c) energy conservation.
2.05     Hungary's principal transport policy objectives, approved by
Parliament, are the efficient provision of services with the complementary
development of different modes.  Traffic is allocated among different
transport modes mainly by economic criteria (e.g. tariff policy, energy
efficiency, manpower needs, etc.) and in case of necessity, by administrative
measures.  Innovations and adjustments - usually through increased competition
- to keep the transport industry dynamic and cost-effective, became urgent in
the late 1980s and the Government favored a structural change in transport
undertakings from the point of view of both ownership and undertakings. The
number of small- and medium-sized undertakings has significantly increased,
and large monolithic organizations were split into vigorous smaller units to
make them more cost-effective. The direct involvement of the MOT in the
management of transport enterprises and services is being gradually reduced.
The overwhelming majority of transport enterprises are now authorized to
determine the strategies of the respective enterprises and play a decisive
part in all measures related to managez.tent.
2.06     While considerable progress has been achieved towards introducing
competition for road freight transport, the same cannot be said for public
passenger transport (excepting taxis). Furthermore, while goods
transportation in all modes is self-financing in Hungary, i.e. revenues from
freight traffic cover all related costs (including operation, maintenance,
depreciation etc.), as a matter of socio-economic policy, the Government has
not set urban/suburban passenger fares at a high enough level to recover all
costs. Consequently, the Government pays an enormous subsidy (about US$200-
250 million per annum) to the public transport agencies to safeguard the
standard of living of the poorer section of the community.
III. Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The objectives of the project were to assist Hungary:
(a)      to increase the efficiency of the transport sector, conserve
energy and improve the sector's earnings of convertible
currencies;



- 3 -
(b)      to ease critical transport bottlenecks on Hungary's
principal highway and railway networks, vital to
international trade;
(c)      to increase efficiency and cost-effectiveness in having
timely. essential maintenance performed on the arterial roa'd
and railway networks to sustain the development of all
sectors of the economy:
(d)      to improve important institutional and policy matters such
as user contributions to road expenditures and optimum
utilization of the road network, technology transfer, inte;^-
modal facilities and gradual reduction of subsidies; and
(e)      to familiarize the railway and highway organizations staff
with recent developments and expected trends in operating,
monitoring and maintenance techniques utilizing the latest
state-of-the-art.
Description of the Project
3.02     The project consists of high priority items included in Hungary's
1981-85 Investment Plan or the then proposed 1986-90 Investment Plan. The
railway components include: (i) a modernization program for the FerencvAros
(East) marshalling yard in Budapest; (ii) acquisition of track renewal and
maintenance equipment; and (iii) equipment to upgrade interface facilities
between rail and road at five container terminals. The highway components
include: (i) construction of the first phase of about 14 km of a 28 km four-
lane motorway by-pass of Budapest including two bridges across the Danube;
(ii) requisition of equipmert for the maintenance of national roads, pavement
management, road safety and road construction quality control. The road
transport component includes acquisition of larger capacity, more fuel-
efficient and longer-life freight vehicles engaged in international trade
together with supporting management information systems and maintenance
workshop equipment. Technical assistance includes: (i) the contribution of
road users to financing the costs of roads; (ii) modern management systems and
operational aspects of international trucking companies; and (iii) study
visits of about 27 work-months of railway personnel to familiarize them with
recent developments in traffic, operations and engineering practices, and
about 80 work-months cf highway personnel in modern developments in traffic
safety and pavement management. In addition, the project financed about five
staff-months of foreign consultancy assistance to help produce suitable
English-language technical specifications for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB).
IV. Project Design and Organization
4.01     The project was designed mainly to relieve transport bottlenecks and
mounting congestion on some of the most heavily trafficked railways, out-moded
marshalling yards and road sections. The project also specifically addressed
improvements that affected more than one mode of transport, such as
containers, concentration/location of container terminals, and development of
interface linkages with rail and other modes of transport. The project also
aimed at enhancing international competitiveness of HC's foreign trade



- 4 -
services, thereby improving the inter-modal balance especially in foreign
trade. Within _he highway system, the radial roads spanning the country from
Budapest to its borders, which have within their areas of influence most of
the country's industrial and commercial activity, are generally of
international significance and the major thrust of the project was to initiate
the construction of the first stage of the Budapest by-pass (including
construction of two major bridges and five important inter-changes) - which
was probably Hungary's most critical bottleneck on an international road
route.
4.02     In the past, prior to the Bank's involvement in the transport
project, major roads and bridges in Hungary were being constructed by five
State-owned contractors. After reviewing Hungary's then construction practice
in regard to availability of personnel (professional, technical, skilled and
semi-skilled) and materials, and discussing legal requirements for foreigners
working in Hungary at the time of preparation of the Bank's first transport
project, it was concluded that no constraint existed on a foreign firm working
in Hungary. The highway civil works contract envisaged in the Bank's
transport project could, in consequence, be awarded to prequalified
contractors after ICB. Thus at the Bank's initiative the country did
introduce ICB in major highway civil works (the Budapest by-pass with two
major bridges on the river Danube). This was a major breakthrough. The
prequalification and bidding process served as a learning process. For the
first time a comprehensive set of Hungarian specifications for road and bridge
construction were assembled.
4.03     In the project designing stage, the Hungarians prepared transport
feasibility studies using methodology customarily employed in Bank projects.
As a result of the Bank's subsequent reviews of these studies and discussions
with officials, a number of marginal components originally proposed for
inclusion in the project were either reformulated or postponed. More
important, however, was the inclusion of two important studies, namely, (i)
user contributions to road expenditures, and (ii) a trucking management and
information system with special reference to international marketing. The
first study was designed to throw light on factors contributing to the inter-
modal traffic pattern, which was skewed in favor of railways, with a view to
investigating subsidies, user charges and pricing policy. The second study
was aimed at improving "trade logistics" for the Hungarian international
trucking company (HC).
4.04     The People's Republic of Hungary was the Borrower.  The beneficiaries
of the project were MAV (railway components), HC (international trucking
components) and MOT (highway components). The latter, as a government
Ministry, received project funds through normal channels. The Bank entered
into Project Agreements with MAV and HC to whom the Government did on-land
loan funds under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.05     The investment management firm UTIBER was engaged by MOT to provide
overall coordination of all project-related activities, to monitor progress
and ensure that the various executing agencies comply with reporting
requirements and schedules. The Government also confirmed at Loan
Negotiations that each executing agency (MAV, HC and MOT) would appoint an



- 5 -
officer to be responsible for all project-related matters of their component
and to serve as counterpart to UTIBER's coordination staff. The entire
arrangement proved satisfactory throughout the project implementation.
V. Proiect ImRlementation
Loan effectiveness and Droiect start-up
5.01     The Loan (2557-HU) was approved on May 28, 1985 and was signed on
June 4, 1985 (Table 2 - Part III). The Loan became effective on June 10. 1985
as planned. Once the Loan was effective the project progressed smoothly.
Implementation schedule
5.02     The schedule of completion of major components of the project at
appraisal and their actual completion dates are shown in juxtaposition in
Table 4. Part III. A substantial number of project components proceeded
according to schedule and were completed on target with minor variations (up
to a maximum of six months). In the case of modernization of the Ferencviros
marshalling yard. however, there was a delay of about two years mainly due to
the inclusion of environmental protection works - such as sound barriers -
required by recent legislation, and to construction of the maintenance
workshop and health facilities at the first stage instead of at a later stage
as previously planned, which did not affect operation of the yard. The
quality of construction of civil works was, in general, satisfactory.
5.03     The project's two technical studies were also of good quality.  More
importantly, implementation of major study recommendations made with regard to
the road user contribution is already in progress and as a first step, taxes
on heavy freight vehicles have been increased (Tables 4 and 6D - Part III).
Similarly, study recommendations contained in the information/marketing
management of the international freight agency served as an important input to
the Bank-financed Second Transport Project in Hungary (Tables 4 and 6D - Part
III).
5.04     This was the first Bank-financed transport project in Hungary.
Preparation of civil works bid documents was somewhat slow to start with
because of the unfaniliarity of the project executing agencies with Bank
procedures and requirements, but was nonetheless satisfactory (SAR - para.
3.20). Retroactive financing for professional assistance in the preparation
of the technical specifications and other bid documents included in the
project in the English language for the proposed ICB proved to be of great
value (para. 4.02).
5.05     UTIBER, the project coordinating agency (para. 4.05), carried out its
responsibilities commendably during the project implementation stage. These
responsibilities include all fieldwork in connection with expropriation and
land acquisition (for the Mo By-pass), control of conformance with project
specifications, measurement of work quantities and approval of contractors'
invoices for payments. Progress reporting of the project to the Bank was also
on schedule.



-6-
Procurement
5.06     This was the first Bank-financed transport project in the country.
Close Bank-Borrower collaboration was therefore essential, particularly at the
initial stage. In many instances the Bank mission found that technical
specifications, schedules of delivery and the Bill of Quantities (List of Unit
Prices) needed amplification to permit an adequate response from international
competitors. Based on the Bank's suggestions, the Borrower readily revised
the documents whenever necessary and on the whole, procurement action
proceeded satisfactorily.
5.07     ICB for the Budapest by-pass with two major bridges on the river
Danube and several important interchanges (para. 4.02) turned out to be the
centerpiece of procurement-related issues. During prequalification, the main
Hungarian contractors (two road-building firms and one bridge-building firm)
presented their qualifications alone and in a sizable number of joint
ventures. A number of foreign contractors also prequalified alone and in
joint ventures. In this case of a major bridge contract, both steel and
concrete superstructure were allowed with the clear requirement that a bid
must be provided for the "basic design" in case any bidder was interested also
in an alternative design. A sufficient number of firms were prequalified
which ensured adequate competition. Hungarian contractors finally won the
contract on their home ground under intense competition and the ICB resulted
in a substantial savings in the project cost estimates of this important
component. The indirect outcome of this experience has been to convince
Hungarian decision makers of the positive impact of ICB and the production of
a useful set of technical documents in English for the procurement of large
civil works contracts.
5.08     Adequate competition was also experienced in the procurement of
railway equipment and vehicles and equipment of different types included in
the project (Annex 1, Part III). Many countries, inter alia Germany, Italy,
France, Sweden, Spain, Austria and Turkey, successfully bid for these items
and won several contracts.
5.09     Because of intense competition and lower bid prices, particularly for
railway equipment and major highway civil works (paras 5.07 and 5.08) obtained
than those in the appraisal estimate, considerable savings were realized which
were subsequently utilized, in consultation with the Bank, for other important
items included in the project and within the foreign exchange ceiling
(US$119.7, Table 5, Pt.III) but which could not previously be financed because
of the limitation imposed by the loan amount. Overall, the project offered
excellent experience to Hungarian professionals in procurement matters and no
serious procurement problems were encountered which could not be
satisfactorily solved. The Bank also arranged a procurement seminar in
Budapest at the early stage of project execution to familiarize project-
related officials with the state-of-the-art in procurement issues and with
Bank requirements. This proved to be very useful.



-7-
Project Costs and Financing
5.10     The estimated cost of the Transport (Rail/Road) Project at appraisal
was US$215.5 million. The final cost came to US$196.2 million (Table 5A).
The decrease in total cost of about 9X in terms of US dollars was due to
savings in the estimated cost of railway equipment and major highway civil
works (paras 5.07, 5.08 and 5.09) and unforeseen changes in the exchange rates
(Table 5. Part III). Cost estimates of other components at project appraisal
compare well with the actuals. The structure of project financing was also
very similar to what was planned at appraisal. However, in spite of these
savings, the Loan amount was not reduced because the total foreign exchange
requirement included in the Project appraisal is still much higher than the
Loan amount of US$75.0 million (see para. 5.09). The Bank played a major role
as a catalyst to enlist co-financing from other international financing
agencies (Table 5B) and only the railways were required to finance a part of
the project costs, the balance being fully met from external assistance,
namely from the Bank (designated as Loan 'A') and from other international
agencies (designated as Loan 'B').
Disbursement
5.11     The Loan was fully (100%) disbursed, as follows: Railway (MAV)
Components (Part A) - 30.22%; Highway Component (Part B) - 43.26%; and
Hungarocamion (Part C) - 26.52% of the total loan amount (US$75.0 million).
The final disbursement position by category is shown in Table 3. Statements
of expenditures, against which the Bank disbursed, were submitted at regular
intervals by the Borrower through the National Bank of Hungary (NBH). As
agreed, the Borrower also established a Special Account (revolving fund) at
the NBH amount to US$5 million to maintain an adequate flow of funds to the
beneficiaries to finance eligible project expenditures with a minimum of
administrative delay. Excepting at the very late stage, actual disbursements
were consistently faster than the appraisal estimates (Table 3 - Part III).
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1991, on schedule.
Loan Covenants
5.12     Compliance with Loan Covenants was satisfactory throughout the
project implementation stage in spite of some delay in the execution of a few
project items (Table 7 - Part III). The Borrower's part (Part II) of the PCR
and the Government's comments on Part I of this report were received and have
been taken into account and duly incorporated in this report.
VI. Proiect Results
6.01     Overall, the project was successful in meeting its principal
objectives of easing critical transport bottlenecks on Hungary's principal
highway and railway networks vital to international trade. Modernization of
the Ferencv&ros marshalling yard and construction of the first stage of the
Budapest bypass along with two major bridges on the river Danube were already
showing results in facilitating the smooth movement of both passenger and
freight traffic. Acquisition of fuel-efficient trucks by HC similarly



- 8 -
improved its operational efficiency, helped conserve energy and increased its
competitive strength in international freight transport. The project also
provided equipment for container handling and road maintenance which improved
interface facilities between rail and road and reduced the journey time
significantly. HC's revenue earning capacity increased substantially and
thereby improved sector's earnings of convertible currencies. The benefits of
technical assistance and training provided through the project would permeate
the entire economy and some of the study recommendations were already put into
effect (para. 5.03 and Table 6D Part III).
Physical targets
6.02     The physical targets of the project have been achieved as planned
(para. 5.02) with some slippage in the time schedule mainly due to inclusion
of the environmental protection works required by the country's new
legislation. Construction of the maintenance work and health facilities at
the first stage instead of at a later stage as previously planned also delayed
final modernization of the FerencvAros East marshalling yard but the yard was
brought into operation as scheduled. The quality of construction of civil
works was satisfactory.
Economic Performance
6.03     The general and sub-project specific methodologies followed for the
economic re-evaluation of the completed project are, basically, the same as
those used at appraisal. For calculating the economic benefits and costs,
international prices have been used for imported equipment materials and other
tradeable commodities. As regards the latter, prices of mainline locomotives
and shurters produced in Hungary or COMECON countries are significantly lower
than the international price. Land and other non-tradeable items such as
railway ballast and aggregates, skilled and unskilled construction labor, have
been valued at local prices, both at appraisal and in the preparation of the
completion report.
6.04     The quantitative economic analysis for the improvement of the railway
marshalling yard takes into consideration the major benefits from the
avoidance of traffic diversion due to capacity constraints, reduction of total
marshalling time for car detention (reception, marshalling and train
formation), improved utilization of shunters and reduction in operating costs.
The re-evaluated benefits from the track maintenance equipment include
reduction in track and rolling stock maintenance expenses due to reduced wear
and tear and savings in manpower. The economic benefits from container
handling equipment would result mainly from better utilization of equipment
and loading and storage areas. Benefits due to reduction of accidents in the
improved operation of the marshalling yard (skids used instead of secondary
retarders before the project execution) have not been taken into account in
the ex-post estimates to make the results comparable with the SAR. In the
Action Plan envisaged in the SAR (Annex 1 Table 1 of the SAR), and during
subsequent dialogue with the Borrower, key targets were fixed for important
project-related indicators and their actual performance (Table 6F), nd based
on this data the revised ERRs are shown in Table 6B, Part III. In the case of
modernization of FerencvSros marshalling yard and track maintenance equipment.



-9-
the revised ERRs are significantly depressed. This reduction is primarily due
to the drop in rail freight traffic in general in subsequent years and to the
delay in completion of the FerenevAros West marshalling yard and the approach
section to Budapest jur.ction, financed by local sources (Annex 2A - Part III).
The revised ERR for container handling equipment on the other hand turns out
to be more favorable than the appraisal estimate mainly because of the rising
trend in container traffic' on Hungarian railways with an appreciable
increase in lead in spite of the overall decline in freight traffic (see
footnote and Table 6F(c)).
6.05     Economic benefits from the project road construction include savings
in vehicle operating costs due to reduced congestion, shortened travel
distances, improved road surfaces and reduced travel times. About 8.000-9,000
vehicles per day used important sections of the Budapest bypass during
1990/91, as against the traffic range of 6,000-11,000 vehicles per day
estimated at appraisal (Table 6F(d)). A significant proportion of this
traffic (25-30%) was heavy commercial traffic. The key point is that this
traffic will rise sharply with the completion of the on-going Second Transport
Project as soon as the adjoining section of the bypass (about another 14 km)
is connected with motorways M-1 and M-7. A significant reduction in cost of
the civil works (para. 5.07 and Table 5A - Part III) has significantly
improved the revised ERR for the Mo motorway (Table 6B - Part III). The rate
of return for the first section of the Budapest bypass is influenced by the
high construction cost per km of this sub-section because of two major bridges
and several costly interchanges.
6.06     Considerable traffic hold-ups were experienced on heavily trafficked
roads in Hungary in the winter time due to road icing, snow falls and
blizzards resulting in increased vehicle operation and time costs. The
investments in road maintenance equipment such as high-capacity sand/salt-
spreading machines. rotary snow ploughs etc., reduced the period of traffic
delays from three hours to less than one hour on such occasions. Since with a
relatively small investment the period of disruption of traffic could be
reduced significantly, the revised ERR for this sub-component reconfirmed the
high rate of return expected at appraisal (Table 6B - Part III).
6.07     Net additions to HC's fleet were designed to improve its export
earnings and enhance international competitiveness. Operating revenues of HC
compare well with the appraisal forecasts (Annex 3, Part III). HC's
operational efficiency indicators for the latter half of the 1980s fully
/  Container traffic tonnage (in millions) for different years
1980        1.2                1985         2.4
1981        1.5                1986         2.6
1982        1.6                1987         2.6
1983        2.1                1988         2.9
1984        2.3                1989         2.5
Source: SAR Supervision Report



- 10 -
justify the investments made. Compared to other alternatives such as the
leasing/hiring of vehicles, outright acquisition of fuel-efficient light-
bodied vehicles proves to be the least-cost solution with a revised ERR of
about 26% depending on the increasing utilization of these vehicles with
improved staff productivity (Table 6B - Part III and Annex 4B). The financial
rate of return (Annex 3D) is equally impressive.
6.08     The overall project, therefore, remains economically justified as
appraised with a weighted E.R. of about 20% (Table 6B - Part III).
Financial Performance
6.09     The financial statements of MAV. including both appraisal estimates
and actual results for FY85-89, are given in Annex 3 (A-C), Part III. MAV's
operating ratio, including passenger subsidies, increased from about 87%
(actual) in 1983 (SAR, Annex 5, Table 1) to about 97/98% during 1985-89 (Annex
3A, Part III). The operating ratios excluding subsidy during this period
similarly deteriorated (i.e. increased) from about 100/101% to 105-110%.
Until 1984, despite having to carry commuter passenger traffic at below-cost
fares (para. 2.06), MAV covered all operating costs through tariff revenues.
The subsidy, therefore, did not finance an overall operating deficit but
contributed to funds from which debt service, working capital increases, and
most of MAV's capital expenditures were financed. This is no longer the case,
although freight traffic still covers its costs and provides a surplus. MAV's
rate of return on net fixed assets, dropped from about 5% in 1983 (SAR, Annex
5, Table 1) to less than 1% in the late 1980s (Annex 3A, Part III), and,
thereby, also reflects the inadequacy of tariffs and the urgent need to reduce
unit costs.
6.10     A statement of source and application of funds for 1985-89 is
provided in Annex 3, Table B. Internally generated funds for the three-year
period 1985-87 covered about 95% of MAV's capital investment and thereafter
for the next two years' percentage share was reduced to about 88-90%. The
yearly provision of depreciation accounted for about 80-90% of these
internally generated funds. The current ratios during 1985-89 (Annex 3, Table
C. Part III) indicate that MAV's current assets during the period under
consideration averaged from four to six times its current liabilities.
6.11     The above financial performance of the railways was influenced by
several factors, namely the traffic pattern, a major reform in the taxation
system and tariff policy. Total freight traffic, which was steady up to 1980,
fell from 24.0 billion ton-km in 1980 to 19.8 billion ton-km in 1989 (Annex 2,
Table 4, Part III), representing a total decrease of about 20% in ton-km. The
freight traffic declined mainly as a result of the slackened economic growth
of the country and its trading partners (termination of COMECON cooperation).
However, MAV's container traffic increased significantly during the same
period 1980-89 (para. 6.04). A major reform of the Hungarian taxation system,
which was implemented during 1988, introduced a value added tax and
progressive income tax on individuals. Wages were increased to compensate
workers for the new income tax. During January/February 1989, the Government
increased MAV's freight tariffs by 20%, long distance passenger fares by 30%,
and inner city fares by an average of 64%. The financial picture discussed



- 11 -
above (paras. 6.09-6.11) is the outcome of the combined effect of all these
factors.
6.12     The HC is an international trucking enterprise, operating in the
competitive European market for import, export and transit traffic, with the
freedom to set freight rates according to the competitive market. As about
one-third of its transport revenues are denominated in West European
currencies, HC is a significant contributor of convertible foreign exchange to
the economy of Hungary. This enterprise is efficient and profitable. The
operating ratios for the period 1985-89 (Table D, Annex 3, Part III) compared
favorably with appraisal estimates for the three years 1985-87 and
deteriorated to some extent during 1988-89 mainly due to the Middle East
situation and unexpected increases in its new tax obligation during 1988/89
(para. 6.11). The rate of return on net fixed assets varied between 30 and 40
percent, showing a much better performance than forecast at appraisal.
6.13     Traffic, measured in terms of ton-km. rose by about 50% from 1985 to
1989 (Annex 4B, Part III), while operating revenues increased by 100% (Annex
3, Table D, Part III). HC's commendable financial performance during the
period under consideration was primarily achieved by better vehicle
utilization. quicker turnaround and improved staff productivity (Annex 4,
Table B).
Technical assistance and training
6.14     The major technical assistance component under the project was (i)
the road users' contribution study and (ii) the trucking management
information study. The quality of the two completed studies is satisfactory
and the study recommendations are already being utilized (para. 5.03) and
acting as inputs for a subsequent Bank-financed transport project (Table 6D,
Part III). In addition, a number of middle management level officials and
senior specialists from Hungary have undergone short programs of study in (a)
improved marshalling yard and terminal operations, (b) traffic control, (c)
traffic safety. (d) pavement management, and (e) the trucking management
system. This training took place in several countries including the UK. West
Germany, USA, Finland, France and Sweden. The training program, though
initially lagging behind, picked up momentum during project execution and
ultimately proved very useful (Table 6E, Part III).
VII. proiect Sustainab_ilitv
7.01     Improved competition and ongoing structural adjustments in Hungary
(para. 2.04) are aimed at keeping the transport industry dynamic and cost-
effective. With the present trend of Hungary's emphasis on increased exports
and liberalizing imports to promote competition, the country is now placing a
higher premium on the more efficient operation of existing transport assets
carrying significant volumes of foreign and transit trade. The Government
intends to continue the policy of encouraging free market competition, while
fostering energy conservation. The main policy instruments would continue to
be pricing measures. The Bank in its subsequent transport project in Hungary
has urged that policy improvements be an essential element of Bank activities



- 12 -
in transport. The Government has also decided to reduce the transport subsidy
significantly before 1993. With these developments, there is reasonable
expectation that project benefits will be sustained. The posSibility of
changes in the political environment leading to a reversal of the ongoing
reform process in the transport sector could be a potential risk. However.
with the firm commitment of the present Government towards the ongoing reform
process, these risks seem to be minimal.
VIII. Bank Performance
8.01     Through the first transport (rail/road) project, the Bank made a
positive contribution to the physical and institutional development of the
transport sector. There is now increasing consciousness of the benefits of
improved competition, control of operating costs, better .-3 ntenance and
avoidance of uneconomic activities. Inclusion of both rail and road
components in the same project allows an integrated view of the land transport
system during the supervision stage and helps identify some of the system-wide
problems such as the need for (i) structural change in transport
ownership/undertakings to enccurage more competition, and (ii) improved
interface facilities to promo-e multi-modal movements and the need to reduce
transport subsidies. All these important issues were successfully followed up
in the Bank's next transport project. The project encountered no serious
procurement problems because of timely action taken by the Bank to assist the
Borrower in carrying out the necessary amplifications in bid documents (para.
5.06) and also by organizing a procurement seminar in Budapest well in advance
of project execution to make the concerned agencies sufficiently familiar with
Bank requirements. The Borrower fully appreciated the Bank's helpful and
reasonable approach in this regard. In retrospect, the following lessons may
be learnt from the experience of the completed project:
(a)      Introduction of ICB for major highway civil works was an important
breakthrough, providing an excellent opportunity to familiarize the
concerned authorities with the processes of prequalification and
bidding and resulting in substantial savings (paras. 4.02, 5.06 and
5.07);
(b)      provision of an overall coordination agency (UTIBER) for all project-
related activities with appropriate counterpart from each project
executing agency went a long way to successfully monitoring progress
and complying with Bank requirements (para. 4.05);
(c)      retroactive financing for professional assistance in the preparation
of the technical specifications and other bid documents included in
the project in English for the purpose of ICB yielded rich dividends
(para. 5.04); and
(d)      establishment of a Special Account (revolving fund) greatly
facilitated the timely flow of funds to the beneficiaries to finance
eligible project expenditures with minimum administrative delay.



- 13 -
IX. borroLer Performance
9.01     The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.  Prompt action
taken towards Loan Effectiveness (Table 2, Part III) and timely disbursements
(mostly ahead of the appraisal schedule - Table 3, Part III) of the Bank Loan
bore ample testimony to that effect. The quality of construction of civil
works included in the project was satisfactory. HC's performance in the
international trucking market with all round improved operational performance
was commendable. The technical approach to the road users' contribution study
and trucking management study was comprehensive and sound. MOT. MAV, HC and
NBH are all well-managed organizations and they maintained good cooperation
amongst themselves. Compliance with the Loan Covenants was satisfactory
(para. 5.12 and Table 7, Part III).
X. Bank-Borrower Relationship
10.01    Good relations between the Bank and the Borrower contributed to the
clarification and resolution of many issues that arose during project
implementation (para. 5.06). The Bank's flexible and reasonable approach
which enabled the Borrower to utilize the ICB-related savings, in consultation
with the Bank. for other important items (para. 5.09) included in the project
but which could not previously be financed because of the limitation imposed
by the Loan amount, was fully appreciated. The successful Bank-Borrower
relationship paved the way to further Bank assistance in subsequent transport
projects and continuous dialogue regarding transport policy improvements.
XI. - Consulting Services
11.01    The Hungarian Institute of Transport Science (KTI) and local
consultants carried out the study of the present system of contribution by
road users towards road expenditures and optimum utilization of the road
network. A reform package covering all road users has been recommended in
this study. Similarly. UNICONSULT (United Transport Consulting Firm, Hamburg)
carried out the trucking management system studies relating to international
freight. A number of recommendations have been made in this study relating to
information system requirements, international marketing. etc. Implementation
of appropriate study recommendations contained in both these studies remains
in progress and the quality of these studies (paras. 4.03, 5.03 and 6.14,
Table D, Part III) is satisfactory.
XII. Project Documentation Data
12.01    The appraisal report and the Loan documents were well documented and
provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower for review of
project implementation. Supervision reports and procurement documents and the
Bank's response contained in-depth ongoing analysis of physical, financial and
operational aspects of the rail/road sub-sector in general and project
components in particular. Timely submission of audit reports of MAV and HC
also facilitated preparation of the PCR.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN' 2557-HU)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREFACE
The World Bank granted a transport loan amounting to US$75 million to the
People's Republic of Hungary, and the legal documents were signed on June 4,
1985.
This loan has been supplemented by a US$24 million Bank co-financing loan
enabling Hungarocamion to procure vehicles.
The closing date for disbursement of the Bank loan, which provided hard
currency for the development of the transport sector, was June 30, 1991.
The loan facilitated:
- updating of MAV's Ferencvaros East marshalling yard and procurement of
container handling, track construction and maintenance equipment,
- construction of the first part of the MO Motorway around Budapest, including
two bridges over the Danube, running from the M5 motorway to trunk road No.6,
in addition to the procurement of road maintenance equipment and road quality
testing devices,
- procurement of special large-capacity energy-saving up-to-date vehicles for
Hungarocamion,
- study tours abroad and the engagement of foreign consultants in connection
with the program.
The Borrower greatly appreciates the input of all the Bank experts who carried
out the appraisal and the cooperation and useful advice of those who assisted
in the implementation of the project.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
S U M M A R Y
RAILWAY COMPONENT
As part of Transport (Rail,'Road) Project I, the Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
implemented the following project components in the period 1985-1990:
1.    modernization of the out-dated Ferenevaros East marshalling yard in
Budapest;
2.    modernization of track construction and maintenance technology;
3.    development of interface facilities between rail and road at the
container terminals; and
4.    training program.
In the appraisal of the Project during the first part of the 80s, the World
Bank loan generally aimed at providing sufficient foreign exchange for
transport developments of great in.portance.
The individual development objectives and their evaluation are also included
in this report.
Formulation/definition of the first World Bank Transport Project was preceded
by a much more careful and thorough study than was usually the case in Hungary
as regards traffic as a whole and railways in particular. That study covered
not only an evaluation and forecast of the country's transport (Appraisal
Report), but also economic analyses relating to each machine purchased.
With regard to the implementation of the developments and performance of MAV,
the principal objectives were included in a project-related "Action Plan".
During implementation of the plan, many difficulties were encountered in
meeting these objectives.
(i) The Bank loan covered only a small part of MAV investments, while the
objectives related indirectly to MAV's entire spectrum of activities.
(ii) In the mid-80s, it was impossible to foresee those political and
economic changes which would take place in Eastern Europe and Hungary
towards the end of the decade and which have had a significant impact on
railway performances.



- 16 -
(iii) It could not be expected that the Bank's requirements would be met in
such a short period and traditional railway operations replaced by
market- and profit-oriented activities.
(iv) Growing financial difficulties have prevented the realization of
efficiency gains (e.g. development required for staff reduction).
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE BUDAPEST FERENCVAROS EAST MARSHALLING YARD
1.1   From the viewpoint of the user, reconstruction covered the East
marshalling jard, track, connections leading to it and service sets of tracks.
Capacity has been increased by constructing a second turn-out track between
the East starting head and the Budapest Ferenevaros branching-off point. The
starting part received a modern signal installation (type D70V) with the
gradient conditions of sorting sidings constructed to ensure continuous wagon
speed control by installation of the first type of braking system (ZWUS,
Poland) and of the second (ELIN - Austria). A new gravity marshalling yard
control system has also been installed.
1.2 As soon as the technical content of the reconstruction had been
clarified, a new operational plan was drawn up on schedule. Using the
simulation method, several versions were analyzed and the best one applied. A
report was prepared in 1987 indicating the possible effect of the still
present bottlenecks. According to surveys conducted in 1984 and previously,
annual goods damages of HUF 30-40 million and wagon damages of about HUF 2-3
million occurred at the East marshalling yard. As a result of the
introduction of the ELIN final braking system, damages have been practically
reduced to zero. Elimination of freight slippage that previously occurred in
10-15 wagons a day is also due to application of final braking. Despite a
decrease in traffic. utilization of the new technology installed in the East
marshalling yard is constantly on the agenda. Station staff have been well
trained in handling the new equipment. Based on practical experience, an
analysis has been prepared this year to explore potential uses and to identify
the method of implementation. The findings support the statements we have
previously made in reports, i.e. improving the condition of circular railway
track and bridge and completing the reconstruction at Ferencvaros junctions
will provide an opportunity for the arrangement of all (North-South) traffic
through Szob/Sturovo (Czechoslovakia) and in this context for beginning the
gradual liquidation of the network role of Rakosrendez8 (another major
marsha'lling yard in Budapest).
ANALYSIS OF COMBINED FREIGHT TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT
1.3 In spite of a significant decrease in freight traffic (from 122 million
tons in 1984 to 87.4 million in 1990 - a decrease of about 28%), container
traffic tonnage increased about 9% for the same period. However, in container
handling operations MAV has been less successful due to: (i) termination of
COMECON cooperation affecting volume and structure of containers; (ii) delay
in forwarding; and (iii) increased road traffic competition (the private
sector, in particular, has been developed significantly).



- 17 -
1.4   In this field the basic aim of the loan was to develop the equipment of
container terminals already existing or under construction (including
container-handling district terminals opened equally to large container
traffic) by the installation of special loading machines which were not yet
available at MAV and could not be purchased on the COMECON market.
TRAINING PROGRAM
1.5   Within the framework of the training program, MAV experts were able to
study the methods used by other countries and railways and the most recent
development in railway-related matters. We consider the transport policy and
railway conferences organized by the Bank (1989/1990 and 1991) very
successful, offering us an opportunity to familiarize ourselves with the
problems faced by railways in similar situations ir addition to the most
developed railways.
ANALYSIS OF TRACK CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY
1.6   Machine procurement under Bank financing has yielded significant results
in improving the condition of the machine fleet. Another result is the
considerable reduction in manpower needs for track maintenance (person/km)
caused by fleet modernization. In the field of mechanization, replacement of
worn-out equipment naturally involves the in_tallation of equipment at the
highest possible technical level which allows the same operations to be
perfotmeu at a higher level of quality and using fewer machines. Thus,
installation of new machines ultimately results in savings in railways
operating costs and staff.
Experience
1.7   MAV's experience in its first participation in a World Bank project can
be summarized as follows:
(a)   MAV has gained a good deal of experience in the assessment of different
investments using the Bank's methods, although the former management
were not familiar with them and some decision-making was not preceded by
preparation of feasibility studies.
(b)   During project implementation, a new procurement method (International
Competitive Bidding - ICB) was learned. This method, which was a
completely new departure for MAV, is now being applied widely. As a
result of such a new procurement method being introduced, MAV had access
to the most modern equipment under favorable terms, in many cases
introducing new techniques and technology.
(c)   During implementation of the project, the Bank required much more
frequent and stringent supervision than had been applied to previously-
implemented MAV projects. Since it effected changes in everyday
practices and requirements, implementation proceeded with difficulty.



- 18 -
However, the requirements for regular reporting and personal liability
had a favorable impact on implementation and supervision.
(d)   Based on the experience gained and in anticipation of new traffic flows,
MAV should investigate the possibility of reducing the number of
existing marshalling yards and try to introduce a new system of
yards/terminals (concentrating all freight activities in one location).
(e)   As a summary of experience gained during the development of the
container terminal equipment under Bank financing, it can be stated that
the freight handling technology introduced as a result of development
has created favorable conditions for increasing containerized and
huckepack traffic and for a better utilization of loading and storage
areas at terminals. Based on this favorable experience, there is
justification for continuing development in this field in order to
facilitate MAV's participation in intermodal combined freight transport
which is developing dynamically in Western Europe and which is essential
from both economic and ecological viewpoints.
(f)   Under the training program the most recent developments used by other
countries and railways in their work have been learned. The transport
policy and railway conferences organized by the Bank (1989, 1990 and
1991) were considered successful, offering an opportunity for
familiarization with the problems faced by railways in similar
situations, as well as with the most developed railways.



- 19 -
HIGHWAY COMPONENT
As part of the Transport I Project, MTCWM implemented the following
developments in the period 1985-1990:
1.    construction of a 14km section of the MO motorway
2.    procurement of road maintenance and laboratory testing equipment
3.    technical assistance.
1.    Construction of a 14km section of the MO Motorway
Construction of this section offers the following advantages:
- favorable traffic conditions can be created by directing the flow of
traffic around Budapest along the two most important international
transit routes (E60 and E75),
- by the construction of a new bridge over the Danube, an improved road
connection is established between the Eastern and Western parts of
Hungary and among settlements on the two banks of the Danube to the
South of Budapest (prior to construction of the bridge, the nearest
common highway and railway bridge was 90km from downtown Budapest),
- downtown areas of Budapest are relieved of heavy road traffic
resulting in a reduction of the negative environmental impact of road
traffic along the affected routes.
Cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower
The World Bank representatives made a number of proposals during the
preparation and implementation of the project which proved to be useful
in its implementation and allowed the introduction of solutions that are
more favorable than those previously applied in Hungary. The
application of FIDIC serves as an example of this.
As proposed by the World Bank experts, a detailed analysis was prepared
relative to the quality specifications of road construction work and
concrete materials. By presenting their opinion and approval rapidly,
the Bank experts greatly contributed to the success of the project.
2.    Procurement of road maintenance and laboratory testing eguiRment
Road maintenance equipment was procured for the following purposes:
- to improve the mechanization of winter skid prevention
- to replace the multi-purpose vehicle fleet
- to develop the mechanization of drainage systems.



- 20 -
The aims of the procurement of laboratory equipment were as follows:
- development of the mechanization of road quality supervision
- implementation of a recording device to feed data into the Road Data
Bank.
The activities of the Bank expert can be separated into three phases:
In the first phase the expert discussed the correctness of the technical
specifications, the intended form of procurement and the planned
schedule of purchases. He requested the elaboration of various
efficiency analyses.
In the second phase, the Bank expert cooperated in the clarification of
the guidelines related to the rules of tendering and their stipulations.
In the third phase, he helped the Borrower reach important decisions.
always on the basis of thorough and detailed analysis.
3.    Technical assistance
The technical assistance financed under Loan 2357-HU allowed 60 persons
engaged in the transport sector (MTCWM, investment agencies, design and
research institutes) to take part in training programs covering 10
subjects (study of investment preparation, ICB, up-to-date technologies
and reputed foreign organizations) in 9 European countries and to
participate in an IRF congress in South Korea.



- 21 -
HUNGAROCAMION COMPONEN.
1.    Improvement of the vehicle fleet
Hungarocamion has procured 609 vehicles (saddle tractors and trucks) and
311 trailers under the First Transport Project which represents one
third of the entire fleet operating in international haulage. The
program provided for a fleet extension of about 10% in addition to
replace which, accompanied by higher km/performance, resulted in an
overall capacity increase of 15-16%. The useful life of the imported
vehicles is longer by 30% than that of those manufacttured in Hungary.
This contributed to reducing the need for investment funds as well as to
increasing capacity. A maintenance cost reduction of 34% can be
achieved in comparison with that of the Hungarian types. In the case of
operating two- and three-axle vehicles, fuel needs could be reduced by
9.6% and 7.0%. respectively. During the 5 years of project
implementation, HC was able to save up to 10 million liters of fuel,
which contributed noticeably to environmental protection. The volume of
soot emitted by the vehicles was reduced by 38.5 tons.
2.    Study by UNICONSULT
The management system proposed by the study is based on the method
"intervention in exceptional cases" which results in the
decentralization of decision making. The proposals were accepted and
the organizational changes have been introduced.



- 22 -
1.    ANALYSIS OF THE RECONSTRUCTION OF BUDAPEST FERENCVAROS EAST MARSHALLING
YARD
Technical implementation of the development program
1.1   From the viewpoint of the user, reconstruction covered the East
marshalling yard, track, connections leading to it and service sets of tracks.
Capacity has been increased by constructing a second turn-out track between
the East starting head and the Budapest FerenevAros branching-off point. The
starting part received a modern signal installation (type D70V) with the
gradient conditions of sorting sidings constructed to ensure continuous wagon
speed control by installation of the first type of braking system (ZWUS,
Poland) and of the second (ELIN - Austria). A new gravity marshalling yard
control system has also been installed.
Operational plan
1.2   As soon as the technical content of the reconstruction had been
clarified, a new operational plan was drawn up on schedule. Using the
simulation method, several versions were analyzed and the best one applied. A
report was prepared in 1987 indicating the possible effect of the still
present bottlenecks. According to surveys conducted in 1984 and previously,
annual goods damages of HUF 30-40 million and wagon damages of about HUF 2-3
million occurred at the East marshalling yard. As a result of the
introduction of the ELIN final braking system, damages have been practically
reduced to zero. Elimination of freight slippage that previously occurred in
10-15 wagons a day is also due to application of final braking. Despite a
decrease in traffic, utilization of the new technology installed in the East
marshalling yard is constantly on the agenda. Station staff have been well
trained in handling the new equipment. Based on practical experience, an
analysis has been prepared this year to explore potential uses and to identify
the method of implementation. The findings support the statements we have
previously made in reports, i.e. improving the condition of circular railway
track and bridge and completing the reconstruction at FerencvAros junctions
will provide an opportunity for the arrangement of all (North-South) traffic
through Szob/Sturovo (Czechoslovakia) and in this context for beginning the
gradual liquidation of the network role of Rakosrendez8 (another major
marshalling yard in Budapest).
1.3   Wagon marshalling time
Wagon detention time (reception, marshalling and train formation) has
been decreased from the previous average of about 15.6 hours to about
12.5 hours. As compared to the target, only a partial reduction has
been realized with respect to the marshalling time of wagons. After the
reconstruction, the wagon marshalling time was reduced by about 3 hours
with the possibility of a further reduction of about three hours which
will be achieved mainly by operational and organization improvements and
the marshalling yard computer controlled information system.



- 23 -
1.4 Humping capacity
As a result of the reconstruction of the East marshalling yard, humping
capacity reached target. In line with international recommendations
concerning the degree of utilization (0.65-0.8), actual capacity is
3.440 wagons/day for the East marshalling yard and, according to a
previous calculation, 2,800 wagons/day for the West marshalling yard.
1.5 Utilization of shunting locomotives
The 8.5% increase in utilization of shunting locomotives falls behind
the target. This is caused by a reduction in traffic and by the fact
that the East marshalling yard handles West-routed wagons involving
extra shunting operations.
1.6 Existing train cancellations
Less than 10% of all train cancellations resulted from insufficient
receiving and handling capacity at the marshalling group or at the
receiving group. The average annual number of stoppages due to
modernization of the FerencvAros marshalling yard was below one train
per day. One of the reasons for this is that MAV ha-s cut back through
reorganization of the functions of the station in the renewal periods
involving a significant decrease in marshalling yard capacity.
1.7 Marshalling oReration cost reduction
An increase rather than a decrease has been experienced in unit costs,
due partly to an annual rate of inflation of 10-30% and partly to a
reduction in traffic.
1.8 Staff reduction
As a result of the modernization, the previous shortage of staff has
been eliminated, including the lay-off of about 100 workers from Poland.
The shoeman and switchman functions could also be eliminated.
2.    ANALYSIS OF TRACK CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY
2.1 Machine procurement under Bank financing has yielded significant results
in improving the condition of the machine fleet. Another result is the
considerable reduction in manpower needs for track maintenance (person/km)
caused by fleet modernization.



- 24 -
2.2   The following machines were procured under the Loan:
Number      Type of machine
1 Pc       broad gauge ballast clearing machine
3 pcs      standard gauge ballast clearing machine
5 pcs      switch regulating machine
2 pcs      track regulating machine
2 pcs      sleeper changing machine
2 groups   switch changing machine
2 pcs      ballast regulating machine
80 pcs      quick rail cutting device
12 pcs      hydraulic rail tightening device
8 pcs      power track lifting device
2 pcs      hydraulic rail end bending equipment
2 pcs      rail web grinding machine
60 pcs      petrol engine power-wrench
20 sets     high frequency tool set
2.3   From the analysis of the status of mechanization, it is clear that most
of the heavy machines operating on railway track were extremely outdated at
the time of preparation of the loan program and the maintenance costs of
machines increased steadily. In the system of five-year plans used at that
time, only maintaining the level of operation, mainly through replacement of
worn-out equipment, could be set as a target. In the field of mechanization,
replacement of worn-out equipment naturally involves the installation of
equipment at the highest possible technical level which allows the same
operations to be performed at a higher level of quality and using fewer
machines.  Thus, installation of new machines ultimately results in savings in
railways operating costs and staff.
2.4   Through continuous installation of new machines, as listed in the
introduction, it was possible to achieve a significant reduction in the number
of individual machines (partly through replacement) as follows:
Type of machine                                    Number of machines
1984    1991
track regulating machine, 06-16 Plasser                10        7
n06-32    o                  10        5
,Attila                       8        3
tamping machine, Buda                                  47       5
switch tamping machine, Csomid                          8       8
sleeper tamping machine, Tass                          45      23
ballast screening machine, Csaba                        4        -
ballast regulating machine, R-7-D Matisa               10        3
lining machine, RIL Matisa                              3       2
It means that the machine procurement under World Bank financing has yielded
significant results in improving the condition of the fleet. Also a result of



- 25 -
mechanization is the considerable reduction in the manpower requirement of
railways maintenance (employee/km), while an improvement occurred in the
machine fleet. The manpower requirement decreased
4,240                2.743
from  ------  in 1984 to  ------ by 1990.
13,798               12.625
2.5   The installation of advanced screening machines gave an impetus to the
screening works urgently needed within maintenance operations resulting in a
steady improvement in MAV's track conditions.
2.6   Procurement and installation of railway tools was aimed at the small-
scale replacement of certain domestically produced outdated categories (e.g.
screwdrivers). On the other hand, it was possible to introduce quicker, more
advanced working methods: a lightweight quick rail cutting device takes 2-3
minutes for rail cutting, while a rail saw takes 15-16 minutes for the same
operation. The use of hydraulic rail tightening devices allowed quick repair
of rail failures which increased the safety of jointless rails. The use of
high frequency tool sets allowed the repair of wood sleepers and wood-filled
concrete sleepers on the track.
2.7   Through procurement, the first steps in the introduction of new
mechanized technologies have been taken. It is to be stressed that only
initial steps have been taken, and full mechanization requires further
procurement. The use of switch changing machine groups made it possible to
lay assembled switches in a single section, together with the connecting rail
sections, without deformation, involving a significant improvement in quality.
The hard physical work of sleeper changing has begun to be replaced by
mechanized methods. Machine operation has been monitored regularly. To
utilize both the switch changing machines and sleeper changing machines more
efficiently, the machine groups have been organized into machine chains
complete with transport, loading, ballast regulating, ballast tamping and
tamping machine units as required by the complete technological process.
3.    ANALYSIS OF COMBINED FREIGHT TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT
3.1   In spite of a significant decrease in freight traffic (from 122 million
tons in 1984 to 87.4 million in 1990 - a decrease of about 28%), container
traffic tonnage increased about 9% for the same period. However, in container
handling operations MAV has been less successful due to: (i) termination of
COMECON cooperation affecting volume and structure of containers; (ii) delay
in forwarding; and (iii) increased road traffic competition (the private
sector, in particular, has been developed significantly).
3.2   In this field the basic aim of the loan was to develop the equipment of
container terminals already existing or under construction (including
container-handling district terminals opened equally to large container
traffic) by the installation of special loading machines which were not yet
available at MAV and could not be purchased on the COMECON market.



- 26 -
3.3   During the project it was possible to:
-     modernize container terminal equipment, and
-     take initial steps in the preparation of the huckepack traffic.
In the course of the project, the terms of reference were amended so that
side-lift trucks under items 2 and 4 in the tender could be replaced by fork-
lift trucks or mobile cranes with telescopic spreader.
3.4  Machines procured are as follows:
Type and number of
loading machine                                   Home station
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------_
6 HYSTER                            P6cs, Miskolc, B6k6scsaba, Szombathely,
fork-lift trucks                  Budapest J6zsefvdros, Debrecen
2 BELOTTI B-75                      Budapest J6zsefvdros, ZAhony
mobile cranes
2 BELOTTI B-75+P1                  ZMhony, Szolnok
5 RABA+KLAUS 40'                    Debrecen, P4cs, Miskolc-G6m8ri Station,
self-loading                      Szeged, Szombathely
semi-trailer units
3 RABA+KLAUS 40'                    Budapest J6zsefvAros
2 KAUP clamping frames              Debrecen, Miskolc-G6m6ri Station
with huckepack arms
Loading machines are operating continuously since their implementation for
loading of containers and huckepack type freights.
4.   T,RAINING PROGRAM
Within the framework of the training program, MAV experts were able to study
the methods used by other countries and railways and the most recent
development in railway-related matters. We consider the transport po] icy and
railway conferences organized by the Bank (1989/1990 and 1991) very
successful, offering us an opportunity to familiarize ourselves with the
problems faced by railways in similar situations in addition to the most
developed railways.



- 27 -
Experience
MAV's experience in its first participation in a World Bank project can be
summarized as follows:
1.    MAV has gained e good deal of experience in the assessment of different
investments using the Bank's methods, although the former management
were not familiar with them and some decision-making was not preceded by
preparation of feasibility studies.
2.    During project implementation, a new procurement method (International
Competitive Bidding - ICB) was learned. This method, which was a
completely new departure for MAV, is now being applied widely. As a
result of such a new procurement method being introduced, MAV had access
to the most modern equipment under favorable terms, in many cases
introducing new techniques and technology.
3.    During implementation of the project, the Bank required much more
frequent and stringent supervision than had been applied to previously-
implemented MAV projects. Since it effected changes in everyday
practices and requiremhents, implementation proceeded with difficulty.
However, the requirements for regular reporting and personal liability
had a favorable impact on implementation and supervision.
4.    Due to a lack of their own funds, MAV did not realize other investments
supporting the project components such as completion of the Ferencviros
West marshalling yard, Cubacs approach sections and other works at the
Budapest junction. The absence of a wagon coupler system (its
introduction in all European countries was postponed several times due
to a shortage of European railways funds) was one of the bottlenecks at
the junction which was transferred to the dispatch zone. These factors
have contributed to expected results not being achieved.
5.    Based on the experience gained and in anticipation of new traffic flows,
MAV should investigate the possibility of reducing the number of
existing marshalling yards and try to introduce a new system of
yards/terminals (concentrating all freight activities in one location).
6.    As a summary of experience gained during the development of the
container terminal equipment under Bank financing, it can be szated that
the freight handling technology introduced as a result of development
has created favorable conditions for increasing containerized and
huckepack traffic and for a better utilization of loading and storage
areas at terminals. Based on this favorable experience, there is
justification for continuing development in this field in order to
facilitate MAV's participation in intermodal combined freight transport
which is developing dynamically in Western Europe and which is essential
from both economic and ecological viewpoints.
7.    Under the training program the most recent developments used by other
countries and railways in their work have been learned. The transport
policy and railway conferences organized by the Bank (1989, 1990 and



- 28 -
1991) were considered successful, offering an opportunity for
familiarization with the problems faced by railways in similar
situations, as well as with the most developed railways.
Proposals:
Preparation of regular Bank reports (quarterly reports, annual reports,
special reports to missions) involved different and perhaps more
administrative work to be carried out (in both Hungarian und English). The
widespread use of Pcs would allow the handling of a computerized reporting
system. It would be of great help in the future if the Bank could send tables
and reporting requirements on diskette, too. It would facilitate our work and
probably lead to an improvement in the level of data supply.



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 257-HU)
PART  - _          FROM   E     -
HIGHWAY  COMPONE NT
(annexes attached)



- 30 -
HIGHWAY COMPONENT
As part of Transport (Rail/Road) Project I, the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Water Management (MTCWM) implemented the following project
components in the period 1985-1990:
1.    cor.,truction of a 14km section of the MO motorway
2.    procurement of road maintenance and laboratory testing equipment
3.    technical assistance.
1.   Construction of a 14km section of the MO motorway
1.1   The MO motorway, which forms a beltway around Budapest, will be one of
the most important elements in road network development in Hungary. Due
to budgetary constraints, construction is feasible only by stages. A
schedule will be drawn up for cross-sectioning (in the first stage, an
expressway will be build in half width) and longitudinal sectioning.
Most important is the Southern section No.1 (between the Ml and M5
motorways); its completion offers the following advantages:
- favorable traffic conditions can be created by directing the flow of
traffic around Budapest along the two most important international
transit routes (E60 and E75),
- by the construction of a new bridge over the Danube. an improved road
connectioa is established between the Eastern and Western parts of
Hungary and among settlements on the two banks of the Danube to the
South of Budapest (prior to construction of the bridge, the nearest
common highway and railway bridge was 90km from downtown Budapest),
- downtown areas of Budapest are relieved of heavy road traffic
resulting in a reduction of the negative environmental impact of road
traffic along the affected routes.
Primarily for financial reasons, Section I will also be built in t,io
stages, with the 14km section already completed (between trunk road 6
and the MS motorway, including the bridge over the Danube). and many of
the advantages listed are already evident. Construction of the whole of
Section I (between the Ml and M5 motorways) will result in additional
benefits. Nevertheless, these advantages will not be fully apparent in
the efficiency indices due to high investment costs. The most noted
advantages will be apparent only after completion of investment



- 31 -
(Sections I and Ii). However. through considerable development (e.g. a
shopping center) planned for that area, traffic might increase markedly.
Based on traffic data measured in 1991 on the section completed and
assuming traffic development for the section between the MI and trunk
road 6 by the end of 1994, the calculated efficiency data are given in
the attached analysis (see Annex I).
1.2   During project implementation, major socio-economic changes occurred in
Hungary which had engineering implications not only for the MO motorway,
but also and particularly for its associated facilities. In response to
public initiatives and due to environmental regulations becoming more
stringent, the following major alterations (involving extra cost) had to
be made during construction:
- the proposed interchange at trunk road 51, in the area of the village
of Dunaharaszti, had to be omitted and instead the new trunk road 51 by-
passing the villages of Dunaharaszti and Taksony was completed under the
project,
- due to more stringent environmental regulations, a more expensive
engineering solution had to be applied for the maintenance center that
will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the motorway,
- the motorway leads through Csepel Island which has in the meantime
been declared a protected hydrological zone; therefore, the drainage
system for the motorway had to be modified and irmipervious lined ditches
and emergency flood reservoirs were built along the entire length
through the island,
- the proposed section of trunk road 6 leading on the Buda side to
downtown Budapest, which was to have been constructed by the Budapest
municipality, was not built until completion of the project; therefore,
a temporary traffic connection had to be established under the pro,ect.
- due to more stringent environmental regulations, longer than
originally planned sections had to be provided with noise-absorbing
walls.
1.3   During construction, an important lesson was drawn from the Hungarian
practice that final building permits for relocation of individual public
utilities (gas and postal lines) are granted only on the basi3 of final
design and since during the tender procedure only Plans for Approval
were available, modifications involving considerable extra cost were
ordered during the approval of the subsequently prepared final design.
Therefore, the tender for the next section of the MO motorway includes
the data of the approval final design. To meet guarantee obligations.
the contract specified 5% of the price; a bank guarantee can be provided
for 2% with the remaining 3% retained by the employer.



- 32 -
On the basis of experience gained during the project, and in accordance
with the stipulations laid down by the Bank. the employer accepts a bank
guarantee for the entire 5% in the second project.
Also due to inflation, in agreement with the World Bank we have changed
over from quarterly invoicing to monthly (monthly estimated sum,
quarterly itemized settlement). Changes also cover a price different
settlement disadvantageous to contractors (the price difference relative
to the base price applied in a given year was received by the contractor
in the next first quarter invoice, e.g. the price difference for 1990 as
compared tc 1986 reached almost 100% of the building costs for 1990).
Based on our experience, the new regulation allows for the contractor to
effect settlement in a given year at the price level of the previous
year and the price difference paid in one sum includes only the previous
year's price increase.
1.4   The World Bank representatives made a number of proposals during the
preparation and implementation of the project which proved to be useful
in its implementation and allowed the introduction of solutions that are
more favorable than those previously applied in Hungary. The
application of FIDIC serves as an example of this. This international
contract system was hardly known in Hungary at the start of the works;
contractors tried in various ways to prevent its introduction, but
later, after gaining an in-depth knowledge of it, they realized that it
serves the interest of both employer and contractor and it is therefore
now applied for other contracts, also.
1.5   During implementation, numerous problems arose due to the fact that the
specified quality requirements are too severe and hence difficult to
meet. As proposed by the World Bank experts, a detailed analysis was
prepared relative to the quality specifications of road construction
work and concrete materials.
The individual evaluation of bituminous pavements as specified in the
contract has been compared with the statistical evaluation methods
stipulated in specifications applied in Germany and Switzerland. For
earthworks, a comparison has been made with the previous Hungarian
standard. Lessons have been taken into consideration in defining the
quality specifications for the next section.
During detailed analysis of the quality specifications for concrete test
cubes, we have stated that the specified permissible degree of variation
is too severe; therefore, it has been modified in the new tender and a
proposal has even been made to apply it in the new Hungarian standard
that is designed to ensure compliance with EUROCOD regulations.
Vacuum concreting has been applied for a major bridge construction job
under the project. Hungarian specifications are not available for
qualification of concrete made in this way; thus, at the suggestion of
the World Bank, French specialists were involved in the introduction of
this process.



- 33 -
During construction of the MO motorway (Section I). we gained much
useful experience, which was utilized in the preparation of Section II,
and we expect to be able to profit from this experience during
construction, also.
During the joint work under the project, the representatives of the
World Bank provided all possible assistance to those participating in
the preparation and implementation of the project.
This assistance was essential in the initial period because it was the
first Bank-supported transport project implemented in Hungary and
therefore Hungarian participants had no experience in the implementation
of such projects.
1.6   The World Bank adopted a tolerant approach, accepting the inevitable
modifications listed above and considering them as consequences of the
changes in circumstances.
By presenting their opinion and approval rapidly, the Bank experts
greatly contributed to the success of the project.
2.    Procurement of road maintenance and laboratory testing eguipment
2.1   The B2 and B3 sub-components consist of road maintenance equipment and
laboratory instruments respectively.
2.2   Road maintenance equipment was procured for the following purposes:
- to improve the mechanization of winter skid prevention
- to replace the multi-purpose vehicle fleet
- to develop the mechanization of drainage systems.
2.3   The aims of the procurement of laboratory equipment were as follows:
- development of the mechanization of road quality supervision
- implementation of a recording device to feed data into the Road Data
Bank.
All sub-component goals were reached within the program except the
second goal of the B3 component. However, considering the fact that the
supplier did not fulfil the contract and even cancelled it, we found
readings reasonable to perform in the form of consultant contracts based
on the international connections gained in the meantime and approved by
the Bank experts. Later we ourselves might carry out the readings,
provided sufficient experience has been gained.
2.4   The efficiency of the connections to the Bank can always be identified
or evaluated by the consultancy and advice of the appointed expert.
The activities of the Bank expert can be separated into three phases:



- 34 -
In the first phase the expert discussed the correctness of the technical
specifications, the intended form of procurement and the planned
schedule of purchases. He requested elaboration of various efficiency
analyses, and this resulted in the improvement of the economic views of
the Hungarian experts.
In the second phase, the Bank expert cooperated in the clarification of
the guidelines related to the rules of tendering and their stipulations.
In the third phase, he helped the Borrower reach important decisions,
always on the basis of thorough and detailed analysis.
2.5   During the first Transport Project, the Bank experts showed a readiness
to help, and to adapt to the wishes of the Borrower, based on logical
reasoning.
3.    Technical assistance
3.1   The technical assistance financed under Loan 2557-HU allowed 60 persons
engaged in the transport sector (MTCWM, investment agencies, design and
research institutes) to take part in training programs covering 10
subjects (study of investment preparation, ICB, up-to-date technologies
and reputed foreign organizations) in 9 European countries and to
participate in an IRF con.ress in South Korea.
3.2   The subjects were discussed with the Bank representatives during the
appraisal. In the course of the project there were no significant
modifications to the program drawn up in the Appraisal Report.
3.3   The Bank provided constant and valuable assistance in preparing the
study tours, determining the aspects of utilization and selecting host
agencies. For the future, the Bank suggests that the studies on cost-
efficiency related methods focus on two areas:
(i) updating of national standards
(ii) use of systematic questioning tools at the project level (value
engineering)
3.4   The Borrower and the Bank were in continuous consultation during the
program period. The Borrower intends to request these consultations in
the future.
While back-to-office reports were formal and contained few
recommendations, the Bank's remarks were considered justified.
To improve efficiency and to eliminate language barriers, the Borrower
intends to arrange a training program in Hungary as proposed by the
Bank.



- 35 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
PART 11- PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
H I G H W A Y C O M P O N E N T - ANNEXZS
----------------------------------------__--



-36-
PaeI of 21
EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS
on the
EXPRESSWAY MO
section I/b.
opened for traffic between Km 14and Km 28
-okt6hpr IQQI _



- 37 -
Amex 1
Page 2 of 21
Design Po.; 47.700/98/1-llo
EPFICIENCY ANALYSIS
ON  THE
MO EXPRESSWAY, SECTION I/b.
as constructed between Km 14 and Km 28
Prepared by;
Traffic Engineer:           Ldszl6 Pintdr
Ciaba Kal6
Economist                   Zoltinn4 Szab6
Project Manager s           Guzstdv Petki
Oktober, 1991



- 38 -
Annex1
Page 3 of 21
Entrusted by the Ministry of Transport, Communication  and
Water Management and by UTIBER Transport Consulting Manage-
ment Ltd.w4th;the present documentation, UVATERV Engineering
Consultants are submitting the report on investigating the
anticipated efficiency of the MO expressway, Section I/B,
opened to traffic at the end of year 1990.
Corresponding to those requested by the World Bank;, the in-
vestigation started from the actual project cost and from
traffic actually measured on the opened section.
The efficiency analysis was performed for two cases.
One of the cases only covers the now opened Section I/B of
the MO, disregarding the proposed or just to be launched re-
lated developments. The other case consideis Section I/A join-
ing I/B as integral with the prcject,.and investigates the
efficiency by taking into account the bid price of the con-
tractor to whom the contract had been awarded and by consi-
dering the completion of the entire project in 1994.
8xistinjTraffic Volume
Data from traffic counts on three occasions were available
for determining the volume of the average daily traffic for
the year 1991. The interchanges for traffic connections
divide the opened-up expressway into four sectors. On two
occasions, the target of the traffic counts had been just to
determine the traffic of the individual sectors.
-Sites and- durations of traffic c6unts:
1/ A traffic count was organized by the Budapest Technical
University, Faculty of Transport Engineering on April 3.



-39-
Rage 4 of 21
In the framework of this count, cordon-type censii were
performed on all of the sectors and intersection leg..
The survey lasted 12 hours /from 6 a.m. to 6 p. m./.
2/ Entrusted by the Motorway Directorate, M4rf8ldkd Ltd. held
censii on April 30 and July 16. These surveys referred
to traffic of an expressway cross section and were per-
formed on two of the sectors: before the intersection
with Main Road No. 6 at Km 154600 and before ';he inter-
change with the M5 motorway, at Km 28+500.
The duration of both traffic surveys was 12 hours /from
6 a.m. to 6 p.m./.
3/ On October 14, UVATERV Consultants carried out a 4-hour
supplementary traffic census /from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m./ for
the intermediate two sectors: by the Csepel intersection
at Km 18+700 and by the intersection with Main Road No.
50, at Km 25+500.
From the counts, the ADT values of the MO expresswayseotions have
been developed by sections by means of the regularity, peri-
odicity factors laid d wn in the book summarizing the regula-
rities of vehicular traffic, issued by the Ministry of Trans-
port, Public Roads Department in 1987. The data pertaining
to the present year 1991 are shown in Table 1.
Traffic Forecast
The investigated section of the MO expressway has an import-
ant effect on the road traf fic of b-6th the doUnVry huid Bilda-
pest, therefore the available national O/D matrix, traffic
assignment and road network model as used in preparing the
National Highway Development Plan   in 1985 were used to
forecast traffic.



- 40 -
Page S of 21
The traffic assumptions and road network developments
influencing the traffic volumes established at the investi-
gated times were as follows:
Considers Section I/B of the MO only.
In_year 1991:
Road network developed as at present.
There is no:  MO, Section I/A,
MO, Eastern Sector,
MO, intersection with Road No. 5101.
Traffic calibrated to the section between Road No. 51101
and the M5 motorway.
In yt___1995:
Development of road network:
There is no:  MO, Section I/A,
MNO Eastern Sector.
There is:     MO, intersection with Road No. 5101
Danube-bridge of Lhgym4nyos.
The traffic of the road network coincides with the traffic
for a car-ownership level of 200 cars per 1000 inhabitants
as calculated in the National Highway Development Plan..
In_ Xer 2012:
Development of road network:
The same as in 1995.
The traffic of the road network coincides with the traffic
for a car-ownership level of 300 cars per 1000 inhabitants
as calculated in the National Highway Development Plan..
fltiqn 2'
Following Section I/B of the MO, also Section I/A will
reach completion by year 1995.



- 41 -
;                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 
Page 6 of 21
In year 1991:
Road network developed as at present.
There is no:  MO Section I/A,
MO, Eastern sector,
MO, intersection with Road No. 5101.
Traffic calibrated to the section between Road No. 51101 and
the MS motorway.
Tn year 1995:
Development of road network:
There is no:  MO, Eastern sector,
There is:     MO, Section I/A
MO, intersection with Road No. 5101,
Danube-bridge of Ligymanyos.
The traffic of the road network coincides with the traffic
for a car-ownership level of 200 cars per 1000 inhabitants
as calculated in the National Highway Development Plan
In year 2012:
Development of the road network:
The same as in year 1995.
The traffic of the road network coincides with the traffic
for a car-ownership level of 300 cars per 1000 inhabitants
as calculated in the National Highway Development Plan .
The traffic volumes anticipated in years 1995 and 2012 a-re
shown in Charts 2 to 3 and 4 to 5. The annual average daily
traffic is ten times the design hourly traff5.c flow shown
in the plot determined by the ADT computer program.
EfficiencyAnalysis and Evaluation
The economic efficiency analyses have been performed by fol-
lowing the methods requested by the World Bank and by calcu-
lating the required figures, taking into consideartion the



- 42 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of-21
differences in benefits and in additional costs calculated
ac:ording to the oases of WITH and WITHOUT. The inveetigation
also reckons with the traffic c'rcumstances, considering
separate values for the operating costs of travel in undls-
turbed, disturbed and congested traffio conditions depending
on the road capacities.
the 1991-year base values of the specific costs by types of
cost are as follows:
Specific costs for vehicle ope_ation
Performance-dependent specific cost for cars        HUF 6.00/km
Performance-dependent specific cost for lorries: HUF16.80/km
Non-performance-dependent specific cost
for cars                                          : HUF 0.80/km
Non-performance-dependent specific cost
for lorries                                 '      : HUF 5.70/km
Specific time costs.for_travel and transport
Cars on week-days                   : HUF 167/m.hr
Cars on week-ends                   : HUF 208/m.hr
Lorries                             : HUF 392/m.hr
Accident-related specific costs
Fatal                               : HUF 2.30 million/person
With serious injury                 : HUF 0.28 million/person
With slight injury                  : H'JF Q;.07 million/person
The specific cost- of maintenance and operation anount*co
HUF 830 thousand/km/year.
The specific cost; of road rehabilitation runSto
HUF 8.7 million/kv  per
8 years.



-43-
~j5~~ of21
An often debated element of the cost elements calculation Is
the time cost, only some of which is usually accepted by the
World Bank. Therefore, the efficiency indices were also cal-
culated with half of the above quoted time costs and wlthout
any time cost, for both aotlonsl....'k
BaMio Data of the Economic Calculations
Option 1.
Only the completed NO Section I/B exits, without further
construction.
Project cost utilizatiot. based on the actual yearly costs:
Years                           Million HUF
1986                               227
1987                               740
1988                               991
1989                              1245
1990                              1683
4886
Date of opening: end of year 1990.
Option 2
Opened-up MO Section I/B is followed by constructing
Section I/A.
The schedule of the capital costs, based on the actual
yearly costs /Seotion I/O/ and prices quoted in the win-
ning bid /Section I/A/, wil-l be as follows:
Years                           Million HUF
I 986 ..                            227
1987                               740
1988                              991
1989                              1245
1990                              1979



- 44 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 21
Years                           Million HUF
19913                              1140
1992                               1867
1993                               1500
1994                               1410
___________
11092
Dates of opening to traffic:
Section I/B:               end of year 1990
Section I/A:        _      end of year 1994
For both options:
The investigated period  : 1991-2012
Bario year                   : 1991
Discount rate              : 12 %
The results of the efficiency analyses are shown in Charts
6 to 11 and a summary of the efficiency indices is tabulated
in Chart 12.
Conclusions
It is seen from the investigations performed that both of
the options are efficient and cost-saving, their values
exceeding the minimum values specified by the World Bank.
E.g., the Internal Rate of Return as a function of cost for
time saved is not lower than 20% in either of the options.
as compared to the required value of 12-15%.
According to-the results of,the investigation, on a national
economy luvel the returns seem to be ensured.



-45-
hDfex L
Annual average daily traffic in  1991
on the section I/b of the. Motorway MO
Secti o n               Car ( pc)   Truck (pc) AADT(pcu)
Between roads.. No.6 and       6146         1997        11360
No.51101I
Betwcen roods No.51101and   -56 8 8         2 7 4 9     10 470
N o.51                 _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _   _ _  _  _ _
Between r(ods  No. 51 and     68 2 3        3 S 4 4     13 070
No. 50_                                              _
Between rood   No. 50 and      56 S 5       233 4        11 1 10
motorway_MS______
Table Nb. 1



*                              bXrq~~~~~~~~~~
-   Al\E           <                   Zs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
X ,/ S             A~~~~~~~~~
Iz Jo Ir ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
< xeuuv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
99~~~~~~~~



O P T I 0 N                                                                Table No. 3
_ftorw.y NO, s*cton I/b In 2012
300 we/lOO per~sons HrT\I pcu/h
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD D0 x 14T



-48-                   Anne
Paee 13 of2
z         .
I~~
C-
I.
11



O P T I a N   Z1.                            *                                                       Table No. 5
iloorsyKS sections Ia wAd 1/b in 201
300 cars/OO  persons   HTV pcu/h
AADT   10 x HTV
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s     'A



* 4 #                       '$~~~~~~~~~~~~~FFicienr.#  a-A&AIRI  OF l'WdLIC NlOW  I1011C3KC-I                                          Tubl N0Ae.6
|                    ~~~~~~~Cifu 0 -Ii I |*     I tI                                                1       ?I-I  - 
||.-|. ~ ~ ~ A   &.1 41  Ieluls4 ZzeeK43   jaf4AjKqfS3&.i  113sc,,L4
,1f~~~~~k ?%%ig  ISY1 ul;NeilGsf FArCIUds   li  *;                                                                      ffar  2.30 "ILiLIIUX  rl
alr@@.l oIr 6.^I,t>IfS   SI IPA4                                        fcwCltli lJf  thiluCsILD  IR001 ICs 1.S                   sif 't-ws 4.26 OILLIUII ft
I~~~~~~~~~ t1gi,11CL-Fn rsCOS$I
|&hrl._lJ;-;@Sl.lL. Vz I jJ;42 #Wlt rl/    %                      I*tellZb                 -Jo;1   ItJ 11$ 1;   IJ3,11jVAQF
%;e -JfR C-2l1'.# I|s0Ut 3i    ;,e Ib                                                                   t401eg.rl.jf ffs        ca  2                     aff  .a I 
1   u   1  1  :   14^tft-                                         P*d-li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  1% 7. 1zS  CteS  if el   ll-
! " ^u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v ".uw900    jj!6.3.@ 1 a. II s -V29 I .;4F                                     UW
4.fW ~ ~~~~ *.0 d         -)det      1k4h. a4,    1 11Y4. uO    -l5         v IO4S   0
I ..se-    ;w    i     41j.lul?    190941I's          I k>. ui    It0 I 1I%9     P -I Zc3|1i" 
tol4          e-cl            41a            2.&7            1e94d    21   WbbI    c21j4.9e2    II7.18e7 7              I?.404          9) Sbth    Z;!18.S22
I/Sb5        7t. Inv         It49ev                           ..dl n41e. Ioi  ;db m jil          a    IV 15!5bbs        I 4Z. ouf       1.62b    2368tt.bfI
ilil9.|4 J if..uuss   1 .fI1 -4 . 'u                                       1.148 14& I50 I-5So  V , 735;  4d2. Vib         IZ. ue        D b409    is" 3.739
lI';tZ;uSI     Alnto  47           I..,4      _ Igt41          1.41             ; 1 to     i   Z41@O4    U3;!.5sa          R  12.t-d      b. ebs    1j1s1 !fbb
lsIS.- i  4eSE-^*@*~~~~~~ 1t.4S3       -i   Y           I4 u;i;i   I6:.     i      17bn *liv      liXti13 'II        2.;           t i        1716.11i1i
af;$  a.e;!~~~~~~~~~~11 *-. e6 IXe's   -;oi ISi                       Is^l  1 V.7   Inl a  s .} S    1.S-vi       13|a. -4  .t'    It-if !r.  \i.337
I; S. we*            It-.lu     ;P?. 1h         *$81.           1.-4@@-    1 1.0-1-        90I;i.6us      o  nl2 It        I ?. I-DA       n.3ev         11919.114.1
IsS4w'1/#!    ~~5sSt4i4s    04. MO           V              I/ lL%4V    14b            181I9S.4tV0;    tbaI . 0,n        e i0oUvR       3.lN       1901 .44;R
1 In.Ile4      S,,15448 l   i   n;,..s984      *4. ekS         I. l:l        l'  I bzd    Ze5v  )  9 1     91q    SY    1  12. tolV    t   J. 115a    2064.9141
1##15o.~~~d- I1 b w,'i I      j4X            u.tSSs 2.lu                Juo.9    Rifd.hl41                                 (-tot Stt  120  S  b    21S6.4079
**@t;;zs  ss.14>~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.4li                            J.!'Z  I. I."  o2s #.to.S    4q.)    y w.!i' I  I?. 1f)          p. 4%5    4!51 3. 55 I
I tb VSs I      *t,ha. bt..           U!;zb      u.2!7 7        I.i1 V018        t.s^     J5IV.51s         411v.034       13U.1#4)        4 I.?ut      esoce.573                     ~!
I to 17, -W..        4O          *b. p 4            v.2uq        l.ul    a>..I.%          269t-. 1 3       lyVt5.Sov        12. v - #       1.7no    25*4 . a33                            I 
t"-0:"         db.0h S          *V..4,          .6 . Ie         I. u 4     .'             !CI-  I . ebSt- t  SU. 5u   It5 !, I  . v a         51r,   ebbl .61t77
It-4;'0''-@  '@1.81s-I  ~~~4e. '{-e      W. iiJu        I-'l od4h .-X lIt              .l.ti'l    -.'    I il'     1k. fIla v         jf3    27b4v.ltt?
|7X'e.~~~~-8 .0 *8 .I, b    4                I;  ,141       a  -,,4 .1'   S I    .1 4    .:zb  . I  I  2,14  39             (:too)       .2bq    atblo. 71 I
17dv4u/      lol0.dVS        4". a111         u.,4b4         1 . 0-b    20 I I. 4fO   2!i5b.259        e7s.blu          I Z.O2                I.1  24C.09fi . s
!114 ?,       I4E%.7           o41.7e                                     401hV4.0s       lo4.!1 d|12                                       99f Sell52b      .0083l  3b.  4SYt  55,5
II.t 3111.41 $sa  IIul se11en  v.lb 06.70olDuies  61                                        04   ;j            oI.Sta      !Ub "d         5        .,Ib  14549.
effsFFIF-PoifJ WAI11  I S             a.40q        1ilf.L (it dtEludlill -S.?                  i itt h  at         OPll.AL  YEAR                   I - EoI^IE
10l0drf:iFf  t *dilel       3 ..... 2tte.13R                                                                            14V               l"s e.3
PFhl:le;jlhgFfit  llehE  SfMIhG Ehsf Fittl4 ItilAL  10FPFfIlt                 5"



OPTION  1.                                                                                                                                        3 ble No 7.
II V A I                                      rflictercy .4ALTSIS UF PSiILIC  OAUD ' JPCSACEIE)                                                 3         F4Cf
I                                                       Clt51, *sEutFII 1aAlfa21-1Cf-9
DF tIis I'fIismI  i               ^-u ..Il1T  ltli SZ44AS  I,1alEK0r:aSG4  VIZSI#ALAI
j11114 t f ECU0,IhIlC  aEvELtUP1P4L hI:MIUNRAL
ACCI2E*I1-CUS)
I1    .Int Vlow; 19's,IaS                                                                  1a4ct'm1:   1? ,             F&IAL: 2.39 t?ILLtO  fl
4.0kaAI  04 *1 a.S T.;IS I    e VBFA                                       14rI   Of JMUCAIEI.  IRAI-I IC: 1.05                   $iEAV9 0.2ts NIL.loI1  FT
YFUAl; PFi      SffiF  i       tg    h ViAR                                                                                    LIGIII: ".117 PISt.I.6 Fl
1IWAVLL-1141- t4J%I
tCIa'1C1fr ujc vs ..s~s s1: SIIl:.*C1s1|.' Ci         .a.a t   PAIIl.s1I:l4 rc:.I I3.11 P/ 'r    Vpiesci ..-1eGt A     . It  3FFeFAtE'uCt OIF ItASvL TI %E
*I*ie-bt ."ISa,.e.alat:s '-em: .F .Ies .11 c~-   a . *   a itv . ouLL.ALC,. .1  ...:  u I /......wi'               s. *                    z 1.. . :211 ta. 
..eeK-'al$|4fAL-hFln4N~1Ifuli. l C4t       t.10 I- I/v.rf...                    I         I ; 6  T.I I                        its 016C.:16s; X
'a4P.hf;Ae.^uCL-)fVf4hI)sL    ilut       se.Atl,  IIlb.A:-   Gdlll.lAt, P.LAE  FARI% S     11 2                                t-&A.*:)I   a
| w    ^ "~~~~~Ind f I        1 1;:      6#141t f`1L114i  
,,,.f, 1aVLL-             Ila4a   ACIEo#CUi.  AsSiv.01FI..   FACItof               "Jaelf t      uv ,I0J 4 l:l  FV           **lCUuYIolV  mt LIFILr
'l  %   I                   l8s ta  L                                             ;U)IFI) n                          C:u.%) CPE 1  0E4c FlI-
tl;C.   I  .4)'Isole   fl)             tlSnL(    )                   ,cf.i-.FII    oLtft) I     &r.IiFI                                     C151
s^tb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4                                                 %#V . Out4 I.e  Z.)  st|tit   1. I I    -9,1 I. 4it4
29111     *                                                                          n ,ut'ut    tv.Out         ts.1.1.,   *.0!45.euO     5aIj".e'o   -12q5. 4O                a
19S4t                                                                 0.u11         .6,.44        o.4t00    )t11*3.O1e    )e1l3.1-i,t  -IbSl.Ov1
1991      IS     91       a2n.5It        i7.4iJ 2. 11  entt   1 4.2l3    19Ce.13    1697.vbS                                 1e,1..S       111.1)4    Iiidd.113
1q920    lUpuur          2js.ettZ        It.el          2h7             1ue     IOI.nS        19tn,'1457    IS77.01          12.tiu         V.'Soo    1410'.9417
IS95      IO5I            1.2,01        1d.111 24j23                 1.0ea     1,f21.Z.O    il0 7.32'1   jk3s.695          12.690         8.Sols   205.3291
P1'94     i173   %b      4oo.'daO   i,.IO-i            2i. a- .1 I    I.Udu    *0 bi          d a20.b1.    1347.ut04         12.vou         V.o26    a I0o. btib
I'I V                loam  1s.0.i        l-I           -U. 4d        1.,,      13e  .S39    132?. 01I4 t     71%u.004       12.01f1        *.C09  31.912196
Pv'             Ota      IeA4.275        I (aaI va -3. .jS            1.Ovaa0    1117h  'vb    I .42. 3 S     732.2d1        12.Iw*)        3.0l0   Sr33.13'
S*U4     69.153         C9.-AA: I           I.c.'     v.21.         I .ohl    18042. 4.0      ; 14.2.a S I         l       22301  1 I2.5S    114b7.551
IS97      I:.?S'S I4   34v.94            iU.41          0.21i         a .1 vit,0I .2 Pto       liaSe.3b       37S2.7 U       12.C04Ve                 2SIZ81.366
P4 1sp     110p I.,  Z!6-f-e3    7 .38e AW;                           I.e; WLIV   84S;te       17.7' 1s       !o%4V.SZ7      140.101   e    SfO           1. tYe
ova I     l5I  315 S                     .!26S    3vv                 1 .1,04    I p  2. eu. Ib I P1v.. AV4   U10.5al       aS.004u          $.asZh    ll01.09b
P4UU       4  ,i.74      4).'.il?        la.bu          Ijm.             .tlev    u5D.23    A l Q2.tAd        *;5.dll3       12.d'11V       3.iPU.    220e.454
P112      S?Si 14SpI G 77  01..1 4&..Ql                  . 14        I.uiv    1 m11.711*2.2    3 19a.11m *e 4Za.C           12.b1RO        2.7sm   164#.912
;>>"a4~~~~~~$i .#SV2               %JjX*   .Sj;03  4C-cu          l.ui    Itor.icso    I 1;  e. 2e2    14tj,Y73        12.09J0        2.41Ss   14bc.2e2
R'8ll     l;1a-!S4j l    3114.13         4.1.5a1        v. 61v        1.v u.     IS9%..03 im91  1 3S1163      372i.117        12,Q7         2.121    2 Zp50.3
;5CvO Is    5     75     3's121.         41 .oe5                               41Q I1.UeIi 2'vt1 -lSe 21$4.b4Z 5436,.00,                  21.2e6   3111.014
Oad) v         lUdFl bh  40.1.a16. ISa 'o u2.. 14C1 .Cfal  .S 'l4.2l *1 1.51C*0'Z                                          A  lEak           1.7Xd    21h.5
P91114    IbS 14 5*      $z>9 Ap. 8     4h.0144        u.3Zb         I . u"    213p.v121   2Z5ll.eYu         ;201.1"'       1a.u*           1 560    2.2co.690
Ow#*    1#u7 i.qfhg       15.Al m'a.;.  102.0019 v.%wu   Al##|                      ros196Sb  g 4.4 I         2b7.b4-b       1?2,t6          I S5   2C492.6is         
Peto .* 7S   %.l  4*%I. 4h               4%.73l         V.11 1        I                       IivC Vk5ale6 Z310.1 it.  2 65 .7 P5 12.kba     I . ?   IC 21IE.91
061 I     1/4 0w4l       hv4i. J,It      04.s*I a       v.4           t I 4 Zmo   ;pe.61      *4587.0s        Zd51jl 572      Z.Oo           1.181   C2425.0G             l1!G
R@14;    F"24~.S74   Sl 4.!<'7       4d.UU3         ftob           I l.J4 )vt   asw s   2'S10.gS I        2uu.Ist7       12.avw         oi.Vi2    2491.151         
TOTAL^    t  311440 1116    712% 391&    ebal.10                                    4191I.S4zt  42,0i.atb   14l3l.Sb2    SsbD,O0i   5815.969  37S73,012                        HI
te@* gaFtt  U                j4    aeool      *&1faCUIl-61.81 I.I.Ml.4rCE   voLues         31 7 . rhX                                                                           O
dfl;f  I-C031  xallt                usq          11^z ;I*  EIUI;s 3.71               SECltCz O1F          SIbIAll,     %EfI             zsoft 
lIl IFUZU  1141t         S        26.31S 1t                                         I;4VESIklit            Of UPefllou,                  WIfCtE&CY         
WIlP('4F.l .1   ell1      :     16111.313                                                  I                   1291                         0,3r
,'Vs.rE4Iae,a  ll. s   IS,  4SA116N C414I FII.4 IOVAL BF4fFlTg          17.41Ol
. i



OPTION 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T obt 0 NOA
v   'v                                                                      A.SAL:413   Uf    PISIILIC    1144410    IXVC-llf'tifl                                                                                 S.  P&GE
COSI, alEmEM
uFardID116"s                                     ho aalisor 1.61 SIAKA-41 IMIFILU14y:041; V125GAI.Al
Of ECIIhMIL
0.13 1h.42 lvtfd                                                                                                                                               12                        fafm.: 2.119 nL1.0db Ft
-.414A910"    -OF    Arsits I 'Jas    n-  fF.11                                                                         jACista   ifF                            li-fiFfIC:   1.61                             r1E#*Y1   6.2b   141ILLI-10- Ft
" 1, '%.'rjj              a.                        $sl                                                                                                                                                    i IGhTS   0.01  WILLIV a  FT
A3*rCjf1IC   la&' siLlt.                               C1841                                        PASSEISGC.34  v. diACL-Ilisl   C%P31                             pti.Ct.-s1Akt   lit  ItIFFERIE-1U.  Ilk    I#-OVEL    11,r
ant    U."  Fl/w.hUill:
Ca.       t  a.410  t                                         %EVKL.O1  CAPt    io.Q  tilf.0101111
Mir.                                                  I U-X:,% 2    1I.701                                                     I nit"    S    ii.a  Fs/9.1111494                                     It  I.I.M.1194   1
I-F%F  SdvmA1rA6ljI:1W4Qt-.4  VA.!                              3     ."m    8 F.                                     144at    (chi's          19"I                                                  St, 11JI1.31110  x
6'e  if  *x--4 ort rdF                   F   I-i--Lft                        I                      A;bjljo.g;  pi jeci: II aQ    S    A    A                                                        ea    sfr.s &ad   a
d
';u;s I F I i It      t* I scws.,b SC$#                           013CIA 010)                  M.10FICIN
1#6Ab1L-                                                                              t'got-le If .8                     C039                ct)s I            IIL04rr
Ifil-t                          "j II. Ish.    I                                      I I +. U. SO I                                (II-4Y  I I         C-L -4  F I I         1--c -t F I I
e2l.000               351.189    -227.0io
vil?                                                                                                                                     40VQ
:164                                                                                                                                  0.09d                                                                                                     -M."o
-#^v                                                                                                                                 6.4vu                                                                              S.SVd.QQ6   -sam's.000
JfV%                                                                                                                                G.M.)v                VAC61                                                         103.01ij   -14ds.604
7 .349                                                       I U3. 1"i 1    1601.4as    140-I.al-I                                                        10.Z14    IfiSt.t6S
112I.;24              a 1 7 7 . 0 &A,
Y!li .641           141"01.1611               12.4tod                 0.541            1141.1-411
11t.        1;644.91.             1 1 O-). 471                                      I.PZ6           1 P.!D.f 1 4
b.np9    1 I 10.931
:#JV4                                                            It.. 1.12                                      1.101119          1 11p..?411          1.!4 I.u)*             bjc .#'ve                se.buti                                  lasla.0 6
Is 0                                                           I h. ?.6.4             -U. mV4                 1.4000           jasis.:v?             12,12. 137              tpl!l'  tol, I          la.004                                   1?.Idu.331
I qq.;                      O'p             10.00W               ;* if ..e I p        -U. bs.:                 I . uliv        I .07 1. 3 I'D         I 31 1. wn4            1.4u.0 "               a 34. &IRV              %Z.SWS             12,01.0414
1                                                                7'e. $to                 ll.also               I . oda          I 31%.Vd-k            A Soso . It'll         Iven.27"                 12.woo                  4.1al            SS69.ftll
1.1:k                                                            4014. J'3 7              to. S 12               6  Qui.         I S" . -Azj           I                       -69.279                 12.6,0"                  3.1064          1410.456
M.P.M              ;?ft.14614               v.;pjj                 I . ond
AVO                       le 4.1                                                          O..013                1 .4vi           141.1t.67.3           1Si
40.611 I                fa. I -imi            1.60v            1 delf.25a            IscU.&ib2
Ul.sas                  W.avv                 ') . itot.       Isall.6300            19:5.214                                        19.voil                                  159%.?101
Paw%             St, il444                                                                                      1.vdv           IS71.410"
"da
MI-I i
:,.Ih.i                                                              sub                                                                                      U%              1Z.V940
A ook                                                           if. I'#                                                                               I'Am.Z14                12.4109                 1.244           1461.495
a67               41. #1 "'i                                                                                                I'lk".4va               ti I  tiola             12.080                   1.111           trodbdo?
ad.d1ma                 I.J90                  $.qumi          S 669. 4,3d,          IV62.940%                tht.'eav                I 2                                     S9sfi.9v9
4ovu                                                                         13709.
.181.1                                                                                                           922   35419.418   11185.4811'   S366.066    sdis.949    30091.424
1190AVID1.1f  OSLUCS                             317.1100
SIF"Ffec-Clizil *ATIU   I                                le. ISO             110A  SW  aeltmkt 4.70                                     3ECfitoh 4#F                      OPTIAAL TEAR                                   j0dotoUlK
2S.440 x                                                                       I"VLSIPIEki                         OF oetplws                                    EFFIca"Cl
TV                Vio I #0           t                                                                                                                                      1999                                          0.29
11*F    44vior.  CUM                1`810-3   1`411AL                                  0.090.1



OPTION* 2.   -         . 
Tabl,  No.9.
U V a r F a V                      EFFZCIrIACYANALTS13 of PUOIc 0It0A0 INV 4E3                                            P31ACE
IfN IFP I I Mo            No *leitills I/A,11  1ZAKhZZ hATV"ONthSCG V1Z3CALAr
110c w. fCObw,C Ot.VlLI.OPlS.ze.sIAL                                    *
ACCIDEOIT-C05T          
CM.tSt sTEAtS iv9e                                            UISCaU5JOI*C FACICO:  32 X           FAIALS Z.30  IILLITOS F1
VIUtatItt *OF  UiCAL3.las  ;az yrAie                              FACTOR OF IM1UCAIEls INAfFIC: 1.05             IHEAVI: 0.26 3It3L10h Fl
It AS UFFOI3F W. 141& '   ?E....                                                                                LIGnI: 0.07 NILLIUIO FT
TkAVEL-llIt COST
SPFeClfc  VnfilCIE Ops.wA Ia5 c'633           ;fE91.V P&.SSLaUE*  CDhk307.0 I 3/v.IiUtk  IPERCEhIACE 14 bIMEIEENCt OF lOAVEL l1AE
tl8.:-'ENtfs3MNboi.Ir-a,FS'llOll:iT  I oI  : 11.o4 Fl/v.ath   5tt~LE3'4 Cta3321.I.ul t-/l.at ,"t            S I.3* 3.:60r 
{Ill.-F8aAt1-d,cfZlarv(g..prleJEra1 bu .79 flfV.aA                   tduCl23V.f.  Fliv.hsuewt     IP  *...: Ila*' X
Pt hkf:IJ.htrl..Cs _63Pf *1.E   C..4    I   ^, tt f I tCtN      d:AUltt nAN:   I i                           I' Slh: 10vs   x
,-30683.hj     I,..o13si Ih@: I,'V.AA   e   1t .ri5t. V^tLKLIAE1 fs   ! x                                 2u pit.10l   I
VCdI.6l,f;P.  lsiaVEL-1I.f  ACCIUE.i.  AufE.OIWFF.   FMCIIIN              N.J161fIO   0iSCiiiifU                D5SCu3tC3OlED  IOOglFoC.
C  3  A  J! S                3*VFL-                                          NDIf IEII          CVSI       t0S1        EE ; - -
VL*.             .4IIL3Fd.il c,13 IIft ) Ihf.EF I I   bEP tIT 11                                 hEFII                                co3r
3*e1-                                                                    0.00         48.Oi'I     t .OOu t   az0P0    S5S7Ir,9   -227.OUo
1s1}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. a uO                                       *Ouo    o.uB  ;4n. ous  1039..07  _790 4D.I
3.448                                                                    0.eou       0.104        090 eee   1Y2.0u0,   1972.OuO  .1912.000                  .u
3.,91    Sob;4q'?   41;2.M8A       17.3e4Y   14.6684        i. Di    2U3h.7]3 21Sd.ol2 1944.475   3152.b00    1028.571    906.812                                     W
3199)    IQ2T;ud4    479.oa9        11.116      30.083       10 .0Q   2124.608   22h0.922   177h.477   1879.400   3491.927           351.922
1394 91  i5.173    19h leSp         111.111     14*i0        1.404  27170.134    227v.271   122.34'6    ISi12 .000   1076.232    7b7.271
4q4      I7$1;d.Sn    Sil.3b9       19.49e      l30.608      3.6.u   2243. 344   2400.b61   I5?5.6ct3   1422.00    903.7o7    478.661
4.49%    7159j-^I.I   74s.40.qqa                13.SS1       .0u)   29)7h.904   312e.833   17i#3.bt2        24.000       13.615   3101.6A3
194-.    12%o.4ld       37.o3h     Sb 0         13.1.579     1.400O    154.O03   33si1t    I .  177.443      24.0D0       12.159   32d7.7nS             3
ISS7 $41t.i1 9I 9.1391     %S1.41       3.59S6      1 .401. 1331 .5I s    30.4.7 14 Is62.31a  2ne.0o0            30.856   3473.734              a
ves"    v4I3:20 I I   IS.hIl. 03.51is    33.8.9                 .60w   3501.219  31.61.630   1d7. 756.    1432.40a       57.3-1   3541.63t
41 a    ?52s'q7      I si 71 h.27.27ny  0U 14 D.0h           l        3o.%23)I   3bb.9.Sb2?  139S 443        Z4 4u4        4.6S   54S.Sb2 
.Z9dO.    71l,a 144   3I s.eaO     7U.071        .49 s       I .04u0  3d4i. 3tS   4 srjoi .    i  u7.       24.0.0        7T727   4031.409
"el 1       7 I 747.%.7t   1 27.2wu3  74.c47     8. 73I0 I.uUU   11349.4136   424h1.o4o9   121-.3;41         24.uoo        b.99   4217. 4U9
bw-    f'99Ue.00    13Si09. 3      70.364        i.7e lot)    .4 b     2ud     ..!;II   %?.157   I I J.312  133. Ouo      3413b   4294.357
Rua$    21d344.'a   Im.aI           2 I 2.pa     6.45b2      3.0004   allql.009    .1. 33.2 1    I057 .247   24.ooo        5500 4o S9.290
e..o.     . 2tnl. O%  IZ01.059     ns.7S7        0.071       I. 6C   "570.072   4799.2.S    962.012.    24.0 bve           4.911   1     Z71S.2f65
2013as    473>03it   3I65%.elL     a9.  3         . 348.     1.09Q    4747.750   4985.137    910.7b4         2*.000        4.305   43Sb9.137
2004.    %Iusl 7.3   lue..96i      S43.1O9       6.29b       1 .uve   e420.o33   S114.6O3    0433.511    1402 00          23.1i3   5929.053
213      12i1%$iS       LI4I.91On  Ye.4l40       7.93 S.000   Si.900   SSS7 e.00f               7te t17      2.0v00        3.*95   5333.003
2....    *j47ZS      103.3.e71    loo.5A2        7.97u.      *.u.).'   5d7a..4oq   654'13j      l2v.d03      2e.0e0        3.121   5510.933
2"Oi9   l, 4'qA4  1391Z'.2u    3.239            7.nOl       3.u0e    565b.0.7   672n.b0i        65.35I      2a.Qou        2.707   5704.1489
2010     1530.406   iQ9*.777    3.7.135          7.4o99      1."00    Sh33.leS   59148.705    8.l65          24.000        24 4b5SflSO3765                    1  F,
013      1821  044   2u7e.73f    11.1.b32        7.DSS       I.000  .5o80.203       C 6mo713    51q.6ea      133.euO      12.310   59b7.713
2034     171).20o  *2350.&ou    I15.324         21.3.57      3.000  547.261   624906',    5W3.5044          Z4.000        l.9b3   6282.645
Al   *  5941sevl >6.8 0281 C4    3504.019                             8929h.977 .9371.0628  26071.3h5  '12026.000  10728.313  01735.820
aIh.ofR VAUI.Us       .0asi .0of    oOC)UTEf  NENAIWOF.R VALUE:             ;29.6bI.
OfW.FFIT-COVt RATIO  :         2.607     INf Of RETURN: 8.1             _ SfCCIlUi of         OPTIHAL YEAR              IN3EOIATE
1"IFRwhEL RA1E ........       26b5414 X                        !IY6Rb                        Of OPEIJINC               EfFIClf"CY 
NFTPRFAPfI wUAIT      I   18072.724                             .      .       I                 19Y.                      0.37
*f`Nf:rC9AGF OF 5i1E bAVING COST F3UH  TOTAL. SKEFITs.        51.?72Z



OPTION  2                                                                                                         .Tble No.10.
ISV1 a 1 1 *1 V            *        *.--    EFFICIEuCt ANALVAIS OF PUtlIC OUAO liDVESTI4EU r.                                              3, PAUG
*111 A                            *IrCST    c I                                     T                                                       Di11t21-8t1-91
I                          ~~~~~~~~CU3T. i1FIEFIT                                                 D1,1C9
WAICWbIPCWI's               840 XIOUl  /1.14U  82A34ZA8  *IAT011TSAt; 911SGALA1
I                                                        Ic; Ier  ECusst'.l: 0EWLWPf1thtlskI24AAL
ACCIP_hl-C03T
h.fsS YEkR: 1990                                                       ISCu,I11oC FACI0s1   12 Z              F41ALS 2.30 NILLIUti I1
1Wai   llu irt IALTSIRS, Zt  lFAk                                     F&CIIIIS OF IkU%CAMEu  I4AFfICs l.u5                 HEAVIS 0o20  SILL1Dt  FT
rtAk  gdSFFOV  Oh. tIhli   4  frAR                                                                                       LIGdIg 0.07 PILLIT)s FT
INAV11t-1114 C031I
swr.cefic wvelIite  WESIAt.  COisi                 hL11l.1 PASSC.4CLIf r.&ki hJ.e0 FlW."IIISP   PRtCMIIASt  In l'irlcEl.".C  OF IgAViL. IIAE
,I1I..s*>fufMi.Ja451Aidrs,IAi4feulIl CAR   : o.se Fr/v.l k ha:lMs  CAuIO04.4 tl/V.nOtdt                                5 #1 fI.sal     3
;muv..-oF*NF,..IS.*. F-.IibFh.Il;oll'CgI   5.70 fli/V.KA                   lKsil9a1%.v I I/A.llouk                   IU .Ih,.:140 X
PfP.WFIIA'1E-L-I`PF'1f8Ev'I CAl    I   *.u P W1/v.#.-                1143C VP'kiU  L9S1                              15 F1 i.; jOg Z'
i'r..f tgq^.a,lr.L.,,tihI5la4la g ISIL  sa ..h0o s         Ddf t-311aC PtHCLhIACGE   2:                              20 Oife.i110 A
A1       J *1     r.  IJ F
vLsl1..Pfse. Ii..vte.j-?IbE  &CCguE:a.   jvEt.ozrr.    F*LtJs4                   AICuIVFI     VIICWiDilEO ,LIscoo.aItE   ,sgiIf1
t:  V  si  I  2%               IRAvtL-                                             *htuow Po             cost        c4:r       If'Ft(il-
It A-t             4iSL L    il I.  Iits t:ftnI)                              lit.trFII    0L.F.CfII    bt.ktI I                                   CUlls
S 14tA                                                                         t,.VO0b       SI.0mo        0..00.     7i    e      350.169    -221.000
1*1)UW  |  d   *se  .uOe  O.ou O     74"1.00      10139*01   -440.040
sq.,-                                                                          *0eto0        O.Mou         o.oou      918,.0utt    1243.110   -q-'g.tOo
gss  t'0.uw  ua..so        * 4.oO        S 1..04    1.94.4bo   -1245.0io
I0S *   t    9.90tl  .0.8.  v.J041    5g72.ut}0'  11  12.915O  -19a2.@O0
1,91     ISI. ..9       ZL.513 ..1S'i   7.3e9V      ;o.io1         I.OuaO   aul.2w3    IGi6.I a3    61q17.wbS    ISSZ4uwi    lu2d.511           74i.113
19SJ.'    leo71b4tot    a.inp3        Ib.ite3       145.b61        1.044    g2)150.75Oi   I07d.987    15/7.e37    a2)79.000    aoq7.97           st. .S9.987                         U'
IYYs  le'tl.~27 is     ti:: kV      6.111       14.sqt         1,tl04    1921.2o ;!o     21/.52Y    I43$.i#9S    IS12.ttou   1016.Zl2       SUS.3291
50148i   7SlISgh%,      2oeii4eb~     1.#s          1.4 IIS.IO     1.0do1    20I4.o45    2124.ouh    1347.oti4    1427.000        903.7;t      698.606
19"8%    21518,utt.     Safini        sik.4uv       11.S58         a.VI)d  g7Ss 2723.?itq    1545.:i4                  24.000        11.1:t   2o'9.b9,
svv.# tv   z0.a4 ,h    121. t         so. I.5       I S.Szq        1.004   773o. 141    28ith.b.17   1452.333          24.000        12.159    2842.e7
199      tjitl:I.tt    tb4.444        S49.ob        13.1591%       1.vd    ;#04-4.214    39h19.'a.o    13bl.30* .         05.0      1.6tS     2'SIb5.546
5189'.    74 5r.4           505A,2S   h3.S?7        15.611         1.000    5 ..20    31iSZ.4'd    1;!73.210          1u12.w0.)      57.351    3010.4t44
I9C;.      Sdh.Ul       5qh .1, 4     nl.214        ia.0;2O       I.uuu1  I13A.s1 I    5S.9 .3SS    I l. 531          .24.0uo0        8.5    1271.330
;.v      ;'elea.    Sr7.5 e             ".VTl        u.93b.        I.-)us   127i.5I,    S3tsiS41    I10s.022           2400ut         1.121   3430.241
I. it    2fI  II d 5    2o.3$7        I .l           O1.7/I       1.04w    5410.s,4    50el.123    10.9. 00           211.1500 ."15.bDD  i57.123
It    7s   ;         eo.8           7.h           0-Jv           1.04Q    vsatb. II    SIZ-1.05,4    31St2         13.1iOu        S4.150e   5591.054
2.01      7d ,0am    7S4.3ti          b4;.eou        h.So2          1.)    lS.7187    36u&.03?          .,'1b.!        z.9110         5.54    3612.937
2s0.   . ',al.i.%1      1.. 1.271      145.j175       60           1.700W l 34 1.611   14009.b35        b2b.*1i!       '1.OuO         4.513    39bS.035
2ieU'f   }1iI13;21      792.250        h'I.45J       15.10         i.eo;00k    3954.974    41S2.733      75b.t$09      2a.OoI         d.3bS    18123.733
2u04      1,81,id       bS3.2i I      93.19         0.296 b       1.0ew    401J1.902 J    952i.bi3    I1l.a.10       142.000        23.1b3    Am s3.b)5
20111                   d71.11SI      *.14oh          1.993        I.0.20   42Z7.1b   440se547          4'16.4'I'      24.000         3.tr.S    4414.5S4
;IQwa     1S4tbSeo3 l     5.3 I2 a   100.$42         7.'t70        I.Vw    st161.24.6    161.429        595.1.7        20.600         3.121    %557 .49
?.ao'.    3wI's,U1'4.9h:  9e5..5     10i1.23s        1.004         I.0eu 1) oqq.3q    472u.3k,    S4b.S2.              24.0vo         2.7e7   '4710.S1
.OSI.     l5.10,Ih.b    9141.)t      1;1).vDb        7.e98         i.600    *.63%.430   Q0.2d09         50t.5b64       2'*.t-0O       2.4hh    *fl43.209
ZOII5    1621.h: 4 60     IIV4       111.632         7.ASs         I.VO0    4771.547    Sol0. 12i        154313%      103.000        12.31V    *077.IZ4
;toe !I   1.b           ll,4         155a           2.5             .u %'V74# 'I5.Z                     42to.a!AS      241.0u         1.9C3   5129i.0Z2a
201.1  1153.2..    10,9.0 1  l~~~~ ~~3.S2o  21.35)      I.0mo    4907.6041    515.5.022        2,01          2.11          i93       590t
*8.   1  5943u'.bi   )4I35.I1J2   ISbaw4.9                                  75155.006   701SSo1.563  42322.436   1202*.h06   1072A.313  o668o2.561
1t841111  P&ItE)       .6Itii,.@da      DISCUUIWED gEhMAf*gOk VALUE:               U29.051
IFJEfII-CiSAT R*AIIO'1J           2.233       TIXE nF RETUJRNs 7.11              SECT1o0  UF          UP11AL, YEAl RNISWIA1E                      ...
I-todalm  #eaI E        4       23.710 S                                        IIIVCSIIEIl           OF OPE1h;                 . FICIEICY  .    .
85)lPr8fJ1 u4OIl       a   12323.7714.                                                1                                 99           0.33
PfWdCgl4aj  na' TISE ISAVISG COST fOON  lOIAL dF.&CfEiI             10.fi50.



* OPTION 2.                                                                                                                 Table MOM.1.
Is v a T.F a      r . . ;;    j       _ *F          .I,N,. .ffFCtXCy AMALT4IS Of PUOLC RO3aDhiNVEStnE#;                          Pick
* *   . ,.   *  .: . .  ,      ;   ,   .   ,  C05 I,  4EEKErIIT                ,                              ATf 21 ocTi T,; _,
ISIl1t0lnnsO~NO A1bUl IA.1JiI UZMPASZ SIAIFOtMMSAC WI780ALAT
I    OF., 09 kCOMPuhIC 0&EvCLwF`LsQi :1Hsfs0kA
I                                                                                     ACCItDLEtt-COST
0.tn1 YEARS  1990                                              DOlCOhilggG FACTOR:  12 S            FATAL: Z.30 SeILLIGU  FT
MAIIMTU.I OF *ANL.YSS  42 YEAR                                   FACTOR OF I31UUCAILE  TRAFFIC; 1.0             HEAVrts 0.20 MILLIOD. FT
WAVS isJfSlF D. lift  .4 TEAO                                                                                 LIGdTs 6.07 01ILLION Ft
I                                       IRIAVEL-I I1E C31.
3PECIFIC Vf.iiCIE OPERA ING Ctlii             fEEfS.V PASSENGEfN Chili  0.0 FT/#.rlOUI  . PEOCFTAGEC 10 t'FFEHEsiCE.tF TRAVEL TIRE
Js-*Ei FelsJ$a4tF-OFFEq.iwE  Cj    s o.I o lb e. f s.14       *Etsto CARS  0.0 fl/J.6toul                   s hhi t.t:1     I
*,UUofJt#bFOUN4.EE.OVPflfot  lgiil   5.70 FtJvA.7.                 lTdCIt  0.0 fl/V.sOIuI 10 hilLalOd S
PFkV.:ALe -,FFE.dCNi CAk          i o.O0 FTIW.Ik                OAUE YEARi  1099 I5 'Ih.1h.OQ 1
p"f1lFJh .rEIrCf$eV.aEs"I ltOC.I    :I'..mO fT/V.4h   u4iIilUG renC,tCkTAE:  2 S                           20 *s1.:I04 Z
I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~2
S * * I to     O
ACCIDE'.  AV9k.UTFr.   rALCTUN                 ;10DIFIEU   U)SCOWtUSED             ul3COtOUlEtG  OOIf IfO
K  u S   I                                s   TRAVEL-                   ;O1IFDlEui         CoST       tG0SI     UE*EF1I-
fEa..            hiILU12I  FT                Wl1Et Ihl                 bF.cFIT   UUEht:'FI    0ECEFS  I' COST
e.ea 0.000  0.0         e. o.    2au.0qb      357.109   -227.600
0.0a0p      V .Ooo      o.-ue     74D.b.e   1039.o47   -740.OvO
e.00oo      i.0(        O.o0v.    9vi.ovp    12a.1.11    -991.000
e0.00       a O.0         a ao.6 G..o *24S.900   1394.4Oe  -1245.000
S 994                                                                   0.000        0.Ouv .oo  IY'f 0..Ow v* 1912.6oO  -1972.000
V90      I3o0.4;12      G.O004     17.319      14.6o9       k.e00u    6b63.69l   Iw9s.ObS   1404.097   1152 w,00   1026d573   S11.05
ISqv.    1627.,m,i       os".O3                so.o:        :.uO0   1m045.076   1721.3Z4   1377.012   IF79.oeo'  1497.9c7    15,I676
I903    s     aS3 2TS a.) J        ba. 1S a4.5 1            I.God  1a72.e3*   1755.641   1209.631    1512.0o0      076.2a2    243,601
190qi    7 133.h        *.s@oJ    19.q19D      14.dds       1.000   1733. 5I    1000.0g14   119.b71   J422.000    903.107    meD.814
1"9OS    ?35901o       0v.0        52.4819     Ij.560       3.00.    2211-5v   2322.073   13I?.600          Zo.so 85.638   2290.075
*o.    f O25v.41d       0.0601     S..S       1.SZS        a.qOo   26a6.625   a242.q56   1227.u36          24,wva      1Z,159   2397.956
19sl    23451bb7       4 6V,      M.bl        13.!59e      *.udo   2441. I0   2521.0e3   1tqo.751          24.000      10.056   2497.037
s99' '       ;2 43 I    0.o.u0!     6 I . .S7d  13.b19      I.uua   ?044.675   2021.710   1058.bh"    I42.00e           57.351   2479.719
ihV4   ;.'5297JDI       0.aifij    67.21.8    10.0z2        I.0vo    k52la.060   212S.ovv       al0.436     20.404       d.655   2097.60u
;up,$   ;l.o.lOb        0.0        70.0I J 1    A.936        g.eeob   21.7.117   2821.47s    906.439        Z4.0 w       7.727   2797.473
2"u1    ;!1e7:53     , * 0.lu1&   1.c.7        0.71"        1.000    v07.Z42   2921.5SA    839.020         240. 1       b."99   2091,354
?,10o    ?V.000 oe       .000o     7o.1.4       o.:oo        1.ooo   2R77.35s   S021.221    715.474    IS.uoo           34.138   2s88.227
aaisS    ?d00;4%        4.0.ow     62.4s0o      *.se2       I.0o0   2972.9.mO   3321.1oa    71S.2U          24.000       S.S00   3097.So
?bDq    p901.Us.        D.ooo'1    a5.757       a.47u       1.000   3067.617   3220.19         659.000 oo   z.uoO        4.9sr   3196.990
2'as     4013'2al       b.0o       a9.4s3       a 34o        1.00e   3162.734   3320.011    606.711         24.0o0       4.3US   3296.871
21D0.    3164.703       0.0O0      93.t14       a.26o        1.eoo    3257.652   S420.14    S51.947    142.0.o          23.1b3   3278.74q
?Ws.,    3254s.;lS      Y.040 J         a       7.ss3        I.ouO    33s.90o4  MSz0.634    S12.710         24.000       3.405   390.634 -
D0m4    31e15hs         4.1001    I00.?2        7.?10       5.09   3140.1i9   3620.515    471.0o0           z .ova       3.1as   3596.sis
,.4!W     1410,98'      G.0U0     104.239       7.seo        1.0 00    3S53.219   3720.380    431;.bl       24.004       2.787   369b6380
Itme    1%St04006       0.000!   107.915        7.699       1.040   3630.344   .5l2.261    39e.e3e          2".o0o       2.481   3796.261
'.4..         2055     *0S162 44      o.0ooe    531.63Z       7.H3S        1.000   3133.406    3920.942    3.2.847    133.vou          12.310   3707.142
2052    U813.2.a*n  0.660    115.32a           21.357       3.60w   3aio.594   4ug0.023    332.225          24.900       1.903   3996.023
uL   1- S9430 s          e0.300   1544.079                           u1S.031  649bS.777  18576.541  12926.900  20728013  52039.781
1i0P.Ra vaauE:.      8529.09,!    WalScuoUTrE  leeAaINK.A WALUEi           729.s6S
.N     ,.FHF;rCO5T.R   i.;..L.... ..5.ms.  .. .flHf OF RETURN& 8.60      . SECTION OF.      OPTWIAL YEAR          .oliNEoRArE
,  wFRda.  ATE- .         *  20.742 I.. . .1VEs5tlN T                                       OW OPENiu.G               EFFICIERCT. :jz- 
UPRSu..0T    7'. ftf N.6Dt1N;  S7.00e-b.. ,*.,.                            -.. ,..... .1 .  ;          901                 .2,.*.29 . s.
* PfCENT"Sf O  Tilt SATR  'COMl FOON TOIAL bF.EFITS             .11i.
J                                                                                                 -                    .
*:;. *         '.                              .                            ,.                    .   ., .;         s .     4 ''



RESULTS OF EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS                                     Table No.12
Indicators              Option 1.                                                               Option 2.
Saving of time cost is taken in to account
1l0 %              50 %                0 %               100 %              60 %              0 %
Net Present Value
hoill. HIf/            10721.132          8573.333            6427.658          16072.724           12323.774       8577.8B6
Cost Benefit Ratio        2.929              2.542               2.156              2.607              2.233           1.858
Intemal Rate of Ret
/ % /                 28.991             26.315              23.408             26.544             23.778          20.742
bmediate Efficien         0.37              0.33                 0.29              0.37                0.33            0.29
Tioe of Retrn             3.29               3.77                4.70               6.16               7.11            8.60
/years/



- 57 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 257-HUW
PART 11 - PROJECT EWOM THE BORROWR' PERSP
HUNGAROCAMION COMPONENT



- 58 -
HUNGARAOMWON COQNENT
Between 1986 and 1990, Hungarocamion upgraded its vehicle fleet and had a
study prepared to promote the modernization of its structural and operational
system.
1.    lmprovement of the vehicle fleet
1.1  Hungarocamion has procured 609 vehicles (saddle tractors and trucks) and
311 trailers under the first transport project which is equal to one
third of the entire fleet operating in international haulage.
This development program contributed to the replacement of obsolete
vehicles (mo1-t of the RAba type) by vehicles of a higher technical level
and with reasonable operational costs, but ebtainable only for hard
currency. The program also provided for a fleet extension of about 10l
in addition to the replacement.
Greater productivity - through higher km/performance - as well as lower
dead weight and increased volume capacity of some units (oversize
vehicles) resulted in an overall capacity increase of 15-16X.
The share of trailers for haulage of goods requiring special treatment
is the largest of th- total number of trailers procured under the Loan.
Proportions of refrigeration, clothes transporting and miscellaneous
special trailers (containers, heavy trailers, interchangeable
superstructures, oversize cranes) amount to 46%, 10  and 15X
respectively. All this resulted in an improvement in HC's position on
the international market.
There was a favorable shift in the breakdown of HC's fleet by type in
the direction of those which are more competitive:
Type                                Percentage by end of year
1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     I.99C.
Renault              1.7       4.6       .6      8.4     10.8      _4.3
Iveco                 -         -       6.8     14.0     15.3     17.1
Mercedes            36.5     40.3      39.0     36.6     37.2      33.7
Volvo                8.3       8.1      6.1      5.9      5.3       5.3
IUba                510.6    44.2-    38.2 2    32-S     28.7      2X.7-
Miscellaneous        2.9       2.8      3.3      2.5      2.7       2.9
Total              100.0    100.0    100Y.0    100.0    100.0    100.0



- 59 -
The useful life of the imported v,hicles is longer by 30X than that of
the those manufactured in Hungary. This contributed to reducing the
need for investment funds as well as to increasing capacity.
1.2   The program had a positive impact on operational costs.  Maintenance
costs 34X lower than those for Hungarian vehicles were possible. In the
operation of two- and three-axle vehicles, fuel needs could be reduced
by 9.6X and 7.01 respectively. During the five years of project
implementation we were able to save up to 10 million liters of fuel
which contributed markedly to environmental protection. The volume of
soot emitted by the vehicles was reduced by 38.5 tons.
The estimated figures for savings in maintenance and fuel costs are
summarized in the following table:
Year           Maintenance costs            Fuel costs             Total
(million Ft)
1986                    2.2                    6.7                   8.9
1987                   24.5                   16.0                  40.5
1988                   52.5                   22.6                  75.1
1989                  102.5                   37.1                 139.6
1990                  144.0                   59.0                 203.0



- 60 -
Based on the returns from the procured vehicles within five years, a
rate of return of 26X can be expected, as compared to the 16X initially
estimated.
Rate of Return Calculation
Year        Revenue       Capital costs      Operational costs    Returns
(million Ft)
1986          335.2            770.1                213.2           -648.1
1987         1012.1            457.9                615.8          - 61.6
1988         1872.9            337.8               1121.9           413.2
1989         2313.1            426.2               1706.2           180.7
1990         2949.5            216.9               2367.2           365.4
1991         3610.2             20.0               3429.6           160.5
1992 *       4247.8                                4035.4           212.4
1993 *       2837.6                                2639.0           198.6
1994 *       2314.5                                2129.4           185.2
1995 *       1327.3                                1207.8           119.5
1996 *        319.5                                 287.5            31.5
1997 *         45.5                                  40.5             5.0
Useful life:      6.5 years
Rate of return:   26%
(* In the years following 1991, the effect of fluctuating exchange
rates was not taken into account in the calculation of costs or
revenue.)
2.    Study by UNICONSULT
The entire amount earmarked under the World Bank project for studies was
allocated to three studies prepared by UNICONSULT in 1986-87.
2.1   UNICONSULT made recommendations regarding an organization and management
system as well as a system of profit centers to be introduced. The
management system is based on the method of "intervention in exceptional
cases" which results in the decentralization of decision making. The
proposals were accepted and the organizational changes have been
introduced.
-2-.;-2 -Improvemnt- of the-management--infrzma-on-s-y&tem--seves--as- another
important point in the UNICONSUL7 study. In line with UNICONSULT'.
recommendations on tl  IC1b %'naigrated Computerized Informatlon
System), introductlon of a new information system has begun under the
second transport project.
2.3  The third study focuses on a five-year marketing plan.  This is based on
an exhaustive analysis of the company as well as the surroundivgs (both



- 61 -
national and international) and conforms to the proposed new
organization and information system.
3.    AX2arience
Hungarocamion has gained a good deal of new experience in the field of
procurement by international competitive bidding during the four-year
period of this project. This solution helped the company considerably
in selecting the best technical devices and ensured more advantageous
prices, also.
The relationship between the World Bank and Hungarocamion was very good
during the whole period. In constant consultation with the Bank
experts, HC was able to provide for a vehicle fleet modernization
program which resulted in more favorable returns.
The experience gained by HC in its first participation in a World Bank
project and the new type of reporting requirements, strengthened the
conviction of HC management that the overall modernization of the
information system is absolutely necessary. The reconstruction of the
organizational structure - in addition to the establishment of the
information background - could also increase management's efficiency,
and this projected provided HC with useful assistance in this matter.
To meet the new conditions caused by the changes in the country's
economy, HC is carrying out an internal decentralization based on the
profit centers, and with the help of the UNICONSULT study.



- 62 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
(LOAN 2557-HU)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORIATION



- 63 -
Table 1. Rela.ted Bank Loans
Note:       This is the first transport sector project
in Hungary; information regarding related
previous Bank Loans, therefore, does not arise.
Source: Bank Mission, August 1991



- 64 -
Table-2. Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned                    Actual Date
Preparation by                                          19 months
the country                                   (February 1983 - November 1984)
First Presentation
to the Bank                                             March 1983
First Bank Mission
to consider the
project                                                 June 1984
Appraisal Mission                                     November 1984
Negotiations
Completion date                                         April 1985
Board Approval                                         May 28, 1985
Loan Signature                                         June 4, 1985
Loan Effectiveness       June 1985                     June 10, 1985
Loan Closing            June 30, 1991                 June 30, 1991
Project Completion       December 31, 1990             June 30, 1991
Source: Bank Mission, President's Report
August 1991



- 65 -
Tab'e 3. Loan Disbursements
(in Millions of U.S. Dollars)
I8RD                Apptaial              Adual             Adua as %
cal Year            Estimate            Oburmerfl            d EstiMa
June86                6.7                   91                   158
Dec. a                1U9                  29.4                 211.5
June87                21.7                 34.b                 159.4
Dec,87               28.3                  43.4                 155.5
June 88               36.3                 492                   135.6
109
Dec. 88              44.8                  57.1                 127.5
June 89               53.5                 59.9                 112.0
Dec 89               EZO                   672                  108.4
June 90               68.2                 68.2                 100.0
1991
Dec. 90              73.4                  69.8                  95.0
Jun 91                75.0                 75.0 1/              100.0
The final disbursement position was as follows:
Categorv                                         Amount (USD)
1.    Equipment   - Part A                               22,479,523.03
2.   Training       - Part A                                 162,377.51
3.    Civil Works - Part B                               27,540,630.75
4.I. Equipment    - Part B2                               4,021,485.25
4.II.Equipment    - Part B3                                  555,013.98
5.   Training       - Part B4                                265,654.93
6.    Consultants - Part B                                    26,165.99
7.   Vehicles       - Part Cl                            18.810,020.30
8.    Equipment    - Part C2                                 912,658.60
9..   Consultants
Study Tours - Part C3                                  150,261.51
Special Account                                         76,208.15 2/
I/     A smal amount of undiskuzsed loan was used up before September 15, 1991 when the Loan wa actually
closed.
i      lThis amount represents the currency exchange rate fluctuations for transactions mad. under the
special Account.
Source: Bank Supervision Reports
August 1991, and Disbursement Division Data



- 66 _
Table 4. Project Implementation
Schedule of                  AcjaI
Completion                  Complellon
at Appraisal                  Date                      Comment
A Com,IkUon of CV A Woomo
Modemiaton of                    Dec. 1988                   Dec. 1990                   Delay Is prlmaily due to Incluslon of
Felrncvams marshallng                                                                    environmental protectIon works
yard                                                                                     (required by new law) and constructlon
of the maintenance workshop and
health facilities at the first stage instead
of later stage as prevIously planned.
Hlchwav
Mo motorway                     Oct 1990                     Nov. 1990                   Fully operational. UpgradIng
(mn 13.9-28.5)                                                                           envIronmental protectIon standards
required by new law slIghtly delayed
prolect execution.
EB PWoauwent do_t
Track Construction and           July 1988                   Dec. 1988                   Spare parls for these machines which
Maintenance Machineny                                                                    were subsequently Included were
procured by Mhe end of 1989.
Contalner Handling               Sept/Ocl. 1988              Feb./March 1989
Equlpment
Huna
Road Mainterance                 Dec. 1988                   Dec. 1988
Equ'pment
Testing and Evaluation           Dec. 1988                   July/Aug. 1989              Brtdge deck freezing predlctlon devIces
Equipment                                                                                were supplied Feb. 1990.
Hunaarocamlon
Workshop Equipment               June 1988                   /
C. Procuenlet of VehIles
Hunaarocamlon
Vehiles                          Dec. 1990                   Dec. 1990                   Vehicles were procured according to
schedule in dfferent tranches.
D. StudIes
Road users contrlbutlon          Dec. 1987                   Mid-1988                    Implementatlon of major sludy
recommendatgons in progress (Table
6D).
Inftornmlon/ management/          c  1987                    Information System -        Study recommendaton sed as an
marketing                                                    Phase 1: March 1988        Input to the Bank-financed Second
International               Transport Project (Table OD).
Marketing - Phase Il:
Mid-1988
j/ Workshop equlpmnent has been procured from cources other than the Bank Loan.
Source: Supervision Reports / Quarterly Progress Reports / SAR
August 1991



- 67 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A - PROJECT COSTS
Aooraisal Estimate         Revised Estimate             Actual
Items            Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
U ~US$ million            -US$ million -              -US$ million-
Railway Comoonent
a. Modernization of Ferencvaros  17.2   7.5   24.7   25.8   11.3    37.1      28.6   4.5   33.1
marshalling yard
b. Track renewal and         4.7  11.1    15.8        6.3   15.0    21.3       6.0   14.4   20.4
maintenance equipment
c. Container handling equipment  7.3   6.2   13.5     7.3   6.2      13.5      8.1    3.6    11.7
d. Training programs         0.1   0.1      0_2       0.1   nea.      0.1      0.1   0.2      0 3
Subtotal     29.3  24 9    54.2      39.5            72.0    42.8   22.7    6   _/
Highway Component
a. Civil Works Mo Motorway
(km 13.9-28.1)            35.4  28.9   64.3        46.0  37.6    83.6    51.4  27.5   78.9
b. Construction supervision  2.4   0.4    2.8         2.4   0.4       2.8      2.2   0.0    2.2
c. Maintenance equipment     0.4   2.3    2.7         0.4   2.3       2.7      0.4   4.0    4.4
d. Testing and Evaluation
equipment                  0.1    0.9     1.0       0.1    0.9      1.0      0.0   0.6    0.6
e. Training program          0.2   0.3    0.5         0.2   0.3       0.5      0.0   0.3    0.3
f. Study of road users
contribution               0.1            0.1 _J                    _Q 00    0      0.0   0Q1
Subtotal      38.6  32.8   71.4       49.   415       9        54.1   324    86.5
Hunaarocamion
a. Vehicles                  0.0  30.0   30.0         0.0   43.3    43.3       0.0  43.7   43.7
b. Workshop equipment        0.0   0.9    0.9         0.0   0.4       0.4      0.0   0.0    0.0
c. Management studies
and Training               0.3    0 1     0.4        _                              0O2     0.5
Subtotal       0.3  31.0     1             43.7    437        0.3  43.9   44.2
Total Basic Cost   68.2  88.7   156.9
Physical Con'ingencies
- Railway                  2.4   0.9    3.3
- Highway                  3.7   2.9      6.6
Total          6.1    3      99
Price Contingencies
- Railway                   7.7   6.0    13.7
- Highway                  13.8  11.2   25.0
- Hungarocamion            00   10 0    10.0
Total         21.5   27.2   4_Z
Grand total               95.8  119.7   Z=.5       8     117.7    2063      97.2   99.0  196.2
/ Physical and price contingencies included.
V Changes are due to (i) postponement of some customs duty paymentsl, (ii) some minor savings and (iii) unforeseen
chianges in the exchange rates.
Source: Supervision Reports, SAR - August 1991 - and data supplied by che Borrower.



- 68 -
Pae 2, of 2
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B - PROJECT FINANCING
Source                                   Planned                       Final
US$ million-
World Bank                                      75.0                        75.0
Govemment/Cfinanding                            66.0                        54.1
Railways                                        50.2                        42.8
HC/Co-financing                                 24.3                        24.3
215.5                       19.2
Source: Supervision Reports, SAR
August 1991, and data supplied by the Borrower



- 69
Page 1 of6
Table. 6.  Project Results
A - ECONOMIC BENEFlTS 1/
Benefft 1/
at Full Ooeration
Revised Estimates on
Completion of Works when
Estimated at                Rail/Road Sedions were
Appraisal                   open to Traffic
(in million Ft.)
RAILWAY COMPONENTS
(q Modernizaon of Ferencvaros marshalling yard   350                             260
(Iq Track construction and maintenance machinery  184                            170
(iii) Container handling machinery                79                              92
HIGHWAY COMPONENTS
(i) Civil works Mo Motorway (km 13.9-28.5)       415                             460
(ii) Road maintenance equipment                   35                              31
HUNGAROCAMION
(i) Vehces                                       220                             467
(i) Infrastructure equipment                       9                             -2/
1/ Includes savings In operationd costs, maintenance costs and passenger travel time In appropriate cases,
congestion costs In the case of the Budapest By-pass (Mo Motorway)
2/ Workshop equipment has been procured from sources other than the Bank Loan.
Source: SAR, Mission estimates
August 1991



- 70 -
Page 2 of 6
Table 6. Project Results
B   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ER)
Project                                 Appraisal                       Revaluated at
Component                                Estimate                       Project Completion
(most Probable ER %)
RAILWAY COMPONENTS
(i) Modemization of Ferenovaros marshalling yard   30                             22
(ii) Track construction and maintenance equipment  36                             34
(iii) Container handling equipment                 16                              18
HIGHWAY COMPONENTS
(I) Civil works Mo motorway                        14                             20
(II) Road maintenance equipment                    40                             37
HUNGAROCAMION
(i) Vehicles                                       16                             26
(i) Infrastructure equipment
(e.g. maintenance, storage etc.)               28                              1/
Weighted average                      17                             20
1/ Infrastructure equipment was procured from sources other than the Bank Loan.
Source: SAR, Mission estimates - August 1991 - and estimates provided by the
Borrower



- 71 -
Page 3 of 6
Table 6.  Project Results
C - FINANCIAL IMPACT 1/
Hunaarian Railways (MA\/)                 Hunparocamion
Operatina Ratio 2/                    Operatina Ratio 2/
Appraisal                            Appraisal
Year             Estimate           Actual             Estimate           Actual V
1985                88                98                  83                 81
1986                88                97                   85                80
1987                88                98                  83                 78
1988                87                99                   79                87
1989                86                98                   78                85
1990                                  98                                     91
J/ Other details are given in detailed financia! statements in Annex 3.
Z/ operating expenses divided by operating revenue
/ appraisal estimates extended only to 1989



- 72 -
Page 4 of6
Table 6. Project Results
D - PROJET STUDY
Type of                    Purpose as Defined                                     Impact of
Study                     at Appraisal                Status                      Study
1. Road uers               Analysis of the present    The study has been         The Government Is now
contribution study         system of contribution     completed by the           considering study
by road users towards      Consultant, Hungarian      recommendations. As a
road expenditures, and     Institute of Transport     first step, taxes on
optimim utilization of     Science, by mid-1988       heavy freight vehicles
road network The           and ts recommend-          have been Increased
study was expected to      ations have been           based on study
throw light on factors     discussed with the Bank    recommendations.
contributing to the inter-  mission.
modal traffic pattem with
a vliw to Investigating
subsidies, user charges
and pricing polic;. The
study was scheduled to
be completed by
December 31, 1987.
2. TrucIdng                Should cover the           The study has been         Based on the study
management system          following management-      completed In two           recommendations, HC
sudis for HC               related aspects of         phases, namely Phase l:    has prepared an
Intemational trucking      (Management                Integrated Computatlon
operations:                Information System) and    Informa:on System
(I) Information System     Phase II (Intemational     (ICIS) which was
Requirements (hardware     Marketing) by the          Included as an
and software)              consuitant                 important sub-
(ii) Intemational          UNICONSULT (United         component In the Bank-
marketing                  Transport Consulting      financed Second
(iii) Development of       Gmbh, Hamburg) during      Transport ProjecL
contairer services, and    1988)
(iv) Development of
truck terminal facilities,
near Budapest.
The study was
scheduled to be
completed by December
31, 1987.



73 -
Page S of 6
Table 6. Project Results
E * TRAINING PROGRAM
Purpose as Defined
at Appraisal                                  Status                                  Remarks
About 115 staff-          A number of middle management lovel officials and senior specialists
months of training of     have undergone short prograrm  .f study In several countries such as
professionals was         the UK. West Germany, USA, Finland, France and Sweden. The
provided In the          tra'ning program, though inWiily lagging behind, picked up
following field:          momentum during project execution and ultimately proved very useful
(q improved               to the organizations sponsoring their officials to learn the modem
mwshailing yard and       state-ofthe-art
terminal operations
'iq modem
management of track
renewal and
ra,iintenance
(IQi traffic control
(iv) highway traffic
safety
(v) pavement
management
(vi) international
trucking management
system



- 74 -
Page 6 of 6
Table 6. Project Results
F PROJECT-RELATED PERFORMANCE & TRAFFIC CHARACTERISTMIC
(a)  Modemization of Ferencvaros East Marshailing Yard] _/
1984                            1990
(actu)                          (6Ztual)
(I)    wagon walting time (in hours)                               t'.2                            125
li)   utilization of shunter loos (1984 - 100)                    100.0                            107.5
oil)  laor operation cost (R/wagon at 1984 constant                35.0                            25.0
price)
(iv)   capacity of marshalling yard (no. ot wagons per day)       5.500                           6,240
(b)   Rallway track maintenance
?I)   labor utilization                                            0.'                             0.2
(employees/kin)
(11)  track mrantenance cost                                      148.4                            111.8
(FR/km at 1984 constant price)
(c)    Containerizatlon
()    container freight traffic                                   676.0                           819.0
(mill ton-kn per year)
(I1)   revenue earned (mill. R)                                   394.0                           631.0
(d)   Annual Average Daly Traffic (AADTn on imourant
sections of Mo Motorway
Cars                      Tructk                     AADT
No. of Units               No. d Units        (Equ'v. no. passenger car
units (PCU))
pI)    between road nos. 6 and            6,146                       1,997                     11,360
51101
(1)    between road nos. 51101            5S88                       2749                       10.470
and 51
(Ill)   between road nos. 51 and          6.823                      3.544                      13,070
s0
(iv)    between road no. 50 and           5.655                      2,334                      11,110
Motorway M5
1/      rDamge to goods and rolilng stock of about F 30-40 million per annum caused before Insato  of tho new bradng systemn were fuily
eliminated by 1988.
I/       Traffic on the dwfent road sectons In the command area of Mo motorway In 1995 and 20132 as now anticipated Is shown In the attached traffic
Dow diagrams. The key point Is that thc real traffic increas will occur Immediately th9 Unk between MI (West) and MS (South) motorways Is
completed (ongoing works tnder the Transport II project).
Source: National Bank of Hungary & Supervision Reports



Table 6. Project Results
ATTACHM ENT
Motorway MO, section I/b In 1995
200 cmrs/1000 persons  HTV pcu/h
AA 3T T 10 x HTV
/                    -  ._,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
;                                                                       <  >W1~~
... ..... .......... .....__... __ .........   



210'    C                    o a 
5Oqvola



- 77
Page 1 of 2
Table 7.  Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement (LA.)
Project Agreement (P.A.) Description                              Status
Reference
LA. 2.02 (b) and      Maintain in dollars a special account In NBH  the system was established and
4.07 (b)              and submit audited statements thereon.      audited statements received
periodically.
LA. 3.04              Road user charges study to be completed     The study was completed by mid-
before December 31, 1987.                   1988. As a first step taxes on
heavy freight vehicles have been
increased based on the
recommendations.
LA. 3.05              Acquire land aj.d rights in respect of land  complied with
required for carrying out construction of
motorway MO before June 30, 1986.
LA. 3.07              The Borrower shall (i) appoint an institution  complied with
for overall coordination of project
components and (ii) cause MOT to
designate an officer to liaise for carrying out
Part B of the Project.
LA. 4.01              Establish a system for recording project    The system was established and
expenditures for MOT, HC, MAV and submit    audited statements received at
audited statements.                         regular intervals.
LA. 4.02              NBH to op'  a separate account for HC       A separate account was opened at
under the  asidiary loan agreement and      NBH ar. i auditecd statements
submit auaited account thereon.            received at regular intervals.
PA (MAV) 2.05         Provide a training program by September     The program was provided and
30, 1985.                                   accepted, and training progressed
according to schedule.
P.A. (MAy) 3.04       Adopt Action Plan to improve MAV's          complied with
operations.                                 Achievements were reviewed and
monitored on a continuous basis.
PA. (MAV)             Provide audited financial reports by April 30  complied with
4.01(a)               each year.                                  some minor time adjustments
P.A. (HC) 2.05        Management systems study to be              The studw was completed during
completed by December 1987.                 1988 and reviewed by the Bank.
PA. (HC) 4.01(a)      Provide dudited financial reports by April 30  complied with
each year.



78 -
Paae 2 of 2
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement (L.A.)
Project Agreement (P.A.) Description                             Status
Reference
PA (H-C) 4.02(a)     Maintain operating ratio of 80%.            HC continued to perform well
throughout and achieved a return
rate (on net fixed assets) of about
40% - well over the covenanted
22% - but because of an
unexpected increase in its tax
obligation could not meet the
covenanted operating ratio targets
for the years 1988-90, operating
ratios being of tie order of 85%.
Source: Supervision Reports
August 1991



- 79 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A- BANK MISSIONS
Stage of      Month/                No. of         No. of         Staff Weeks    Date
Project Cycle   Year                Staff          Weeks         in Field        of Report
Identification    March 1983        1              3              3             April 1983
Preparation   June 1984             3              3              9              July 1984
Pre-appraisal   August 1984         4              3              12            September 1984
Appraisal     November 1984         4              4              16             December 1984
Sub-Total                                          40
SuprvNision
May 1987              5             3             15              June 22, 1987
September 1987        2              1             2              Sept. 28, 1987
November 1987         2             2              4              Dec. 15, 1987
Juiie 1988            3             2              6              July 11, 1988
May1989               3             2              6              June23, 1989
December 1989         4              1             4              January 4, 1990
May 1990              5             2             10              June 21, 1990
October 1990          3              1             3              October31, 1990
June 1991             4              1             4              July 19, 1991
Sub-Total                                         154
Grand Total                                       94
Source: Supervision Reports
August 1991



- 80 -
page 2 o 
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
Staff Wk by Flical Year Across Stages
Loanredit
ProJect la NIer          ProJect Nan           Fiscal Year Preappralsal Appraisal  Negotiation  Suervislon    Other   Total
7HNPAO11   L25570
TRANSPORT I                  1983           8.1                                              .3      8.4
1984         21.6                                               .5    22.1
1985         34.4        51.7         10.2          6.7       12.7   115.6
1988                                               37.3          0    37.4
1987                                               25.9                25.9
1988                                                14.5               14.5
1989                                                11.2               11.2
1990                                                10.2               10.2
1991                                                 8.1                8.1
1992                                                10.2               10.2
Total for the Project Id 7HWPAO11                                  64.1       51.7          10.2        124.0    13.4    283.5
Grand Total for all Project IdS                                    64.1       51.7          10.2        124.0    13.4    263.5
Ex*cludes tIme spent by Yomg Professlonals



- 81 -
Paae Iof 2
LIST OF EOUIPMENT PROCURED UNDER THE PROJECT
(Railway and Highway Component including Hungarocamion)
Amount
Item                       Outitv             (USS million)
A. Railways
1.   Marshalling yard braking equipment   11,089                     4.51
Track Construction and Maintenance Equipment
2.   Ballast cleaning machines                    4                  5.96
3.   Tamping, levelling machines
for switches                               5                   3.70
4.   Tamping, levelling machines
for tracks.                                2                   1.64
5.   Sleepers cnanging machines                   2                  0.21
6.   Ballast profile machines
(regulator)                                2                  0.68
7.   Switch exchanger                             2                  0.68
8.   Small machinery                              -                  0.84
9.   Spare parts for track machinery              -                  0.67
Container Handling EguiRment
10.   Front loading truck                          6                  0.52
11.   Side loading truck                           2                  0.64
12.   Self loading saddle tractor
with trailer                                8                  1.45
13.   Mobile telescope crane
for container handling                     2                   0.70
14.   Container grip                               2                  0.24
B. Highways
Maintenance EauiDment
15.   Salt spreaders                               15                 0.31
16.   Universal vehicles
(multi-purpose trucks)                      20                  1.13
17.   Lateral snow plough                           8                 0.13
18.   Snow blower                                  12                 2.12
19.   Ditch digger                                  2                 0.49
20.   guality Control Eauipment                                       0.31
21.   Freezing Forecast System              1 complete system         0.17
22.   Falling weight deflectometer                  4                 0.80
23.   Three-axle loaded trailer                     7                 0.22



- 82 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
LIST OF EOUIPMENT PROCURED UNDER THE PROJECT
Amount
Item                      Ouantity          (USS million)
C. Hungarocamion
24.   Vehicles, of which:
- tractors                               360                 16.7
- lorry chassi-                          249                 13.2
25.   Superstructures
- tilt body                              119                  0.7
- replaceable body                        20                  0.3
- refrigerator body                       52                  1.8
- clothes transporting                    25                  0.5
26.   Trailers and semi-trailers
- tilt                                    95                  1.9
- refrigerator                           102                  3.5
- tank                                    12                  0.7
- heavy trailer                            9                  0.6
-clothes transporting                     32                  1.4
- furniture transporting                  15                  0.4
- frames without
superstructure                          5                  1.1
- truck-crane                              3                  0.3
27.   Refrigerator machines                    114                   1.1
28.   Hook fittings                             76                   0.3
Note: Workshop equipment for HC provided in SAR was procured from sources other than
the Bank Loan, and has therefore not been included.
Source:     Summary Progress Report, April 30, 1991 - UTIBER
August, 1991



- 83 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
TRAFFIC TRENDS
A. Freight traffic by different modes (1980-89)
(in million ton-km)
Year         Railway      Road         Water        Air          Pipeline    Total
1980         24,399       11,403        7,889         28          4,393       48,112
(50.7)       (23.7)       (16.4)       (0.1)         (9.1)       (100.0)
1981         24,342       11,759        8,507         25          4,387       49,020
(49.6)       (24.0)       (17.4)       (0.1)         (8.9)       (100.0)
1982         23,273       11,883        8,201         29          4,473       47,859
(48.6)       (24.8)       (17.1)       (0.1)         (9.4)       (100.0)
1983         23,079       11,951        8,376         23          4,335       47,764
(48.3)       (25.0)       (17.5)       (0.0)         (9.2)       (100.0)
1984         22,847       11,945        9,549         22          4,788       49,151
(46.5)       (24.3)       (19.4)       (0.0)         (9.8)       (100.0)
1985         22,309       11,927        9,003         26          4,850       48,115
(46.4)       (24.8)       (18.7)       (0.1)        (10.0)       (100.0)
1986         22,600       12,175        8,644         24          4,954       48,397
(46.7)       (25.2)       (17.9)       (0.0)        (10.2)       (100.0)
1987         21,732       12,765       10,697         16          5,370       50,580
(43.0)       (25.2)       (21.1)       (0.0)        (10.7)       (100.0)
1988         21,058       13,210       14,455         14          6,051       54,788
(38.3)       (24.1)       (26.4)       (0.0)        (11.1)       (100.0)
1989         19,820        6,972       14,921         12          4,966       46,691
(42.4)       (14.9)       (32.0)       (0.0)        (10.7)       (100.0)
1990         16,783        6,690       14,418         16          4,582       42,489
(39.5)       (15.7)       (33.9)       (0.0)        (10.8)       (100.0)
(Figures within parentheses denote percentages.)
Source: Mission Reports
August 1991



- 84 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
TRAFFIC TRENDS
B. Public passenger transport by different modes (1980-89)
(in million passenger-km)
Year         Railway            Road and            Water        Air          Total
Urban
1980         14,655.8           26,200.9            76.3         1,076.4     42,009.4
(34.9)             (62.4)            (0.2)         (2.5)        (100.0)
1981         13,544.6           28,243.7           79.0          1,245.6     43,112.9
(31.4)             (65.5)            (0.2)           (2.9)      (100.0)
1982         13,070.5           28,321.1            86.5         1,266.6     42,744.7
(30.5)             (66.3)            (0.2)         (3.0)        (100.0)
1983         11,104.5           27,793.0            74.2         1,180.9     40,152.7
(27.7)             (69.2)            (0.2)         (2.9)        (100.0)
1984         11,274.4           28,229.3            72.9         1,238.8      40,815.4
(27.6)             (69.2)            (0.2)         (3.0)        (100.0)
1985         11,209.4           28,310.6           69.0          1,333.0     40,922.0
(27.4)             (69.2)            (0.2)         (3.2)        (100.0)
1986         11,233.7           28,093.7            74.1         1,143.0     40,534.5
(27.7)             (69.3)            (0.2)         (2.8)        (100.0)
1987         11,324.4           28,158.9            78.5         1,285.6     40,847.4
(27.7)             (68.9)            (0.2)         (3.2)        (100.0)
1988         11,511.9           27,879.1            72.3         1,344.3      40,807.6
(28.2)             (68.3)            (0.2)         (3.3)        (100.0)
1989         11,886.9           26,418.8           57.1          1,575.5      39.938.3
(28.2)             (68.3)            (0.2)         (3.3)        (100.0)
1990         11,402.5           22,980.7            53.8         1,597.1      36,034.1
(31.6)             (63.8)            (0.1)         (4..)        (100.0)
(Figures within parentheses denote percentages.)
Source: Mission Reports
August 1991



- 85 -
Annex2
Page 3 of 3
TRAFFIC TRENDS
C. Hungarian Railways (MAV)'s freight traffic
Commodity-wise (1980-89)
(in million tonnes)
Commodities              1980  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  i990
1. Coal                 14.9  15.3  14.6  15.6  16.2  15.7  16.0  14.4  12.5
2. Iron ore              6.9   7.4   7.2   5.3   6.1   5.6   5.2   4.9   4.0
3. Bauxite               1.7   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.7   1.6   1.5   1.6   1.7
4. Stone                 8.5   7.3   6.7   6.0   5.0   4.8   4.4   3.5   2.2
5. Gravel                6.3   5.8   5.9   4.6   5.3   5.0   4.7   4.2   2.2
6. Crude oil
and products          8.1   6.6   6.6   6.4   6.1   6.2   5.8   5.4   5.3
7. Steel plate           5.3   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.2   4.6   3.9
8. Fertilizer            4.3   4.9   5.1   4.8   5.1   5.4   5.1   4.6   3.5
9. Coke                  2.0   1.8   1.6   1.8   1.6   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.0
10. cement                3.2   2.8   2.7   2.3   2.3   2.2   2.1   1.9   1.6
11. Cement products       1.6   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.7   0.4
12. Cereals               1.0   1.4   1.5   1.9   1.9   1.4   1.8   1.7   1.4
13. Sugar beet            2.9   3.3   3.1   3.5   2.9   3.2   3.2   4.0   3.6
14. Timber                4.5   4.2   4.5   4.7   4.9   4.9   4.8   3.2   2.6
15. Top soil
and clinker          1.4   1.2   1.2   1.1   1.5   1.3   1.1  .1.1  0.7
16. Other commodities   33.6  33.6  33.2  32.8  33.6  33.6  33.1  31.0  26.0
17. Int. transit         19.8  16.2  16.0  15.1  14.5  13.0  13.0  12.9  12.1
18. Railway materials    4.2   4.2   4.2   3.9   4.1   3.8   3.6   3.4   2.7
Total                130.2 124.0 122.0 117.5 119.1 115.4 111.9 104.5  87.4
Source: Mission Report
August 1991



- 86 -
Annex 3
Financial Statem6nts
Page 1 of 6
Hungarian Railways (MAV)
A. Income Statement
(Ft. million)
1985           1986       1987             1988           1989
BL.sic                 Appraisal       Appraisal      Appraisal     Appraisal      Appraisal
Activitv                Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forscast Actual
Ooeratina Revenue
Passengers           4,761)         4,809}         4,8571         4,9051         4,954}
Freight             28,041} 31,431  30,604) 34,073 33,245) 35,041 35,944) 35,265 38,679)  40,047
Other                 5.Q3   5.289   5.477  5.917   5.9j1  6l   6.392  664    6.856   7.011
Sub-Totai            37,837 36,720  40,890 39,990  44,032 41,224  47,241 41,329  50,490  4 i,82
Subsidy               4.503   .      4.840  3.247   5.188  3       .29  k73   5.87G           .
Total Operating Revenue  42,340 39,758  45,730 43,237  49,220 45,159  52,770 47,202  56,360  53,753
Ooeratina Exoenditures
Materials              7,030  7,784   7,690  8,538   8,260  8,914  8,830  9,038   9,400   9,044
Fusl                   5,650  5,188   6,400  4,883   6,870  5,694   7,340  6,199   7,810  6,000
Wage,                 12,620 12,901  13,480 13,794  14,330 14,462  15,,'n 16,817  15,980  20,527
Other expenses         3,920  5,208   4,230  6,233   4,540  7,169 4,8601          5,170}
Provisions              800 960         860  1.479     910   847   9701  7.035  1.020}  j2Q
Sub-Total             30,020 32,041  32,660 34,927  34,910 37,086 37,170 39,089  39,380  44,931
Depreciation           7.210  6       7.720  6.923   8.20   7.107  8.710  7.402   9200   75
Total Operating
Expenditures           37,230 38,824  40,380 41,850  43,110 44,193  45,880 46,491  48,580  52,527
Net revenue            5,110   934   5,350  1,387   6,110   966  6,890    7.1   7,780   1,231
Interest                620   749       640   487      680   353    710   585        750    874
Pre-tax profit         4,490   185   4,710   900   5,430   613   6,180    126   7,030    357
Municipal taxes            -     1        -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Income taxes           2.877      -   &J73    110   3.187   120  3.522        0 .3.690        72
After tax profit       1,613   184   1,927   790   2,243   493   2,658    126   3,340    285
Ratios
Operating ratio%           88    98       88    97       88    98       87    99       86      98
Rate of return on
net fixed assets %          4.5   1.2      4.7   1.8      5.5   1.2    6.2   0.8        7.0    0.6
Source: Supervision Reports, SAR
August 1991



- 87 -
Annex 3
Financial Statements
Page 2 of 6
Hungarian Railways (MAV)
B. Cash Flows
(Ft. million)
1985           1986          1987         1988           1989
Basic                   Appraisal     Appraisal      Appraisal     Appraisal      Appraisal
Acit                    Forcast A& a Forecast Actuai Forst Actual FQrecast Actual Forecast Actual
Sources
After tax profit        1,613   933   1,927  1,277   2,243   846  2,658  1,174   3,340   1,329
Depreciation            7,210  6,783   7,720  6,923   8,200  7,107  8,710  7,199   9,200   7,391
Provisions              900}           9761           9271         1088}          1138)
Long-term loans           -}             -}             -}            .)             -}
IBRD loan                 91   689    298)   307    260)   464   298)  2,502    112)  2,127
Other sources            251            43)           120)          187)           232)
Grants                  100}             *)             '}             }       
Total Sources           9,857  8,405  10,963  8,507  11,751  8,417  12,941 10,875  14,022  10,847
AanDlicatignls
Transfer to
State budget                  1,001       -   663        -   525       -  1,190       -    800
Debt repayrnent          104   989      104  1,018     104   694    145   416       185    616
Investments            6,045  7,141   8,391  7,517   9,018  8,494   9,489  9,344  11,033  9,801
Increase/decrease
In woridng capitaJ
(other than cash)       1,939    26     475  2,676     671 (1,063)    646  2,558    513  2,636
Incentive fund
payments                587   635      628   630      671   657    718        -     768      -
Other uses /
equity transactions    1,357 (1,387)   1,271 (3,997)   1,205  (890)  1,894 (2,633)   1,401  (3,006)
Total Applications     10,032  8,405  10,869  8,507  11,669  8,417  12,892 10,875  13,900  10,847
(Figures wihin parentheses Indicate negatlve transactions.)
Source: Supervision Reports, SAR
August 1991



- 88 _
Annex 3
Financial Statements
Page 3 of 6
Hungarian Railways (!4AV)
C. Balance Sheet
(Ft. million)
1985          1986          1987         1988           1989
Appraisal     Appraisal     Appraisal    Appraisal      Appraisal
Forecat Acu  Forecast Actua Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual
Asst
Gross fixed asents   172,150167,306 177,640170,619 183,930175,585 190,920175,585 198,710 184,929
Less depreciaton      97S00 89,7j5 104.500 92.526 111.900 97.210 119.600104.409 127.600 111 .80
Net fixed assets      74,550 77,571  73,140 78,095  72,030 78,375  71,320 71,176  71,110  73,129
Assets under const.    4,438  4,655   4,438  4,430   4,438  5,822  4,438 15,166   4,438  15,623
Other non-current assets   2.02g  2.130   2.035  2.312   2.050  2309  2.065  2,360   2.080   2,410
Sub-total             81,008 84,376  79,613 84,837  78,516 86,506  77,823 88,702  77,628 91,162
Current assets
Cash & Bank            1,080   703   1,175   987   1,256  1,058  1,306  1,100   1,427  1,120
-nventofies           12,131 11,075  13,142 11,391  13,175 11,944  12,710 12,943  13,187  15,539
Assets receivable      8,624  3,601   8;233  3.767   8.5   3.   .i.951 059 4.000  10.938  4.080
Sub-total           21,835 15,379  22,550 16,145  23,024 16,953 24,075 18,043  25,552  20,379
TOTAL ASSETS         _g2.843 99.Z%  102.13100.982    0 1542Q103.4  101.9106.745 103.180 111.901
Liabili'tb8
Long-term debt           304   851     494   811      565   927    644  3,365     453  4,908
Other non-current
liabilities          1J199   396  _192   37          115   425    326   450      333    470
Subtotal             1,403  1,247    686  1,118    680  1,352    970  3,815     786  5,378
Current liabilifie
Short-term debt        3,193  2,406   3,564   850   3,052  1,754 2,455}         2,6401
Assets payable etc.    2.31    691  2.923  1.961   3.312  2.784 4165}  3.0       5514  3.624
Sub-total            5,494  4,097   6,487  2,811   6,364  4,538  6,620  3,056   7,794  3,624
TOTAL UABIUTIES        6,897  5.34A4  7-!73  3.9_2  7.044  5.L890   7.590 6.871   8.58   9.002
Reserve fund               -     -       -     7        -   162          -      -           -
Other funds           94,333 94,227  93,063 96,256  92,255 96,914 91,650 99,000  91,260 102,070
Current yeaes profit   J.613   104   1927   790  2.243   493 2.658   874   3.340    82.
TOTAL EOUITY          95,946 94,4'1  94,990 97,053  94,498 97,569 94,308 99,874  94,600 102,899
TOTAL UABIUTY
AND EQUITY           102,843 99,755 102,163100,982 101,542103,459 101,898106,745 103,180 111,901
Curret ratio            4.0   3.8    3.5   5.7    3.6  3.7         3.6   5.9     3.3   5.7
Deb/equlty ratio    0.5\99.5 0.9\99.1 0.6/99.4 0.8/99.2 0.7/99.3 0.9/99.1 0.8/99.2 3.3/96.7 0.5/99.5 4.6/95.4
Source: Supervision Reports and SAR, August 1991



- 89 -
Annex -3
Financial Statements
Page 4 of 6
D. Income Agcounts (HC)
(Ft. million)
1985           1986          1987         1988           1989
Appraisa      Appralsai      Appraisal     Appraisal      Appraisal
Fgrecast                                   Forecast Actuai Forecast Actual
Revenue
International transport  5,051  4,555   5,273  5,112   5,886  5,833  6,682  7,070   7,522  8,684
Other                           143     1              185   367    196  _40                679
Total
Operating Revenue      5,245  4,698   5,462  5,280   6,071  6,200  6,878  7,473   7,729  9,363
npoefino
Exoenditure
Materlals                769   711      828   709      928   810   1,032   882   1,139  1,288
Fuel                     852   728      902   914   1,016  1,003   1,141  1,178   1,271   1,338
Salaries and
related costs           671   660      721   750      763   836    831  1,181      901   1,479
Other costs             1.0            1.511  1.074   1.9   JA4    i,M   2.41    J        2.
Operating Expenditure
befbre depredation     3,695  3,131   3,962  3,447   4,303  4,085  4,669  5,654   5,191   7,102
Deprecdation             640   651      659   743      715   767    772   830       8
Total
Operating Expenditure    4,335  3,782   4,621  4,190   5,018  4,852  5,441  6,484   6,021   7,934
Net operating Income     910   916      841  1 00       1   1       1.437   _8    1i.70   1.429
Interest on loans         94   100       99   113      117   136    137   207       154    219
Taxes on Income         _9    _402      462   416    _492   _2    692   34S         827 1/ 698
Net income after taxes   426   414      280   561      437   320    608   437       727    512
Operating ratlo           83    81       85    8o       83    78      79    87       78      85
Rate of return 2/
on net fixed assets       18    30       16    33       18    40      23    29       25      41
.J/ Including 100 million Ft. transfer to Reserve Fund
2/ Operating Income as X of net fixed assets in operations
Source: Supervision Reports and SAR
August 1991



- 90 -
Annex 3
Financial Statements
Page 5 of 6
E. Cash Flows (HC)
(Ft. million)
1985           1986          1987          1988           1989
Appraisal     Appraisal      Appraisal     Appraisal       Appraia
r-orecast Actua Forecas Actual Forecast Actual Forecast AMua  Forecas Actual
Sources
After tax profit         426   493       280   667      437   4o    608   628       727    708
Depredation              640   651       659   743      71S   767    772   830       830    832
Long-term loans         2701            3821           4321          382)           406}
Other sources           -0}    68    153}  853        _83}          _224} 33   _229}J/ 3
Total                  1,426  1,212   1,474  2,263   1,767  1,232   1,986  2,210   2,192   1,896
Investments              815   374       929   965   1,027   265    982  1,424   i,140    858
Debt service              172   251      131   258      186   485    317   383       392    563
Working Capital/
increase/decrease         13   420       84   359       29  (499)   (49)  (754)      57    208
Other applications       417   233       3a   413    52    757   _3           67     568 
Total                 1,417  1,273   1,452  1,995   1,744  1,008   1,986  2,628   2,157   1,549
1/ Ir;cludes transfer of 100 million Ft. to Reserve
(Figures within parentheses indicate negative transactions.)
Source: Supervision Reports and SAR
August 1991



- 91 -
Ann-ex 3
Financial St-atements
Page 6 of 6
F. Balance Sheet (HC)
(Ft. million)
1985           1986           1987          1988            1989
Apprai6al      Appralsal       Appraisal     Appraisal       Appraisal
Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Eorecast Actua Forecast Actuai/
Assets
Gross fixed assets       5,556  5,435    5,883  5,966   6,321  5,976   6,557  8,046   7,073   8,321
Less depreciation        1.890  2.2   172         1     2.124   .59    &150  4.576   23    4-
Net fixed assets         3,668  3,153   3,911  3,447   4,197  3,377   4,407  3,470   4,718  3,502
Assets under const.         14    14       15     24       16     25      17     59       17     61
Other non-current assets   22   _2Q        24     19       25     19      27    _        29        -
Sub-total             3,720  3,187    3,950  3.490   4,238  3,421   4,451  3,529   4,764   3,563
Current assets
Cash & Bank               221    115      243    383      266    607    266    189      301    536
Inventores                287   279       309    291      346    356    385    431      425    619
Assets receivable        1.172  1.375    1254  1.706    13    1.844   1.415  2.332   J4    3
Sub-total              1,680  1,769    1,806  2,380    1,947  2,807   2,067  2,952   2,219   4,205
TOTAL ASSETS             5.382   AM956        5         6      6.223  6.18  .41    6.98   L76
Liabilities and
Long-term debt            428   340       654    901      874    613   1,039  1,014   1,02    929
Other non-current
liabilities               398    167     425   _M       _ 45     91    480        - :   507
Sub-total               826   507    1,079  1,287    1,327   704   1,519  1,014   1,709    929
Current liabilities
Short-term loan           266   267       116   292       126    208      43    367      66    441
Assets payable            649    152      792    251      844    953   1.067    762    1.078  1iA
Sub-total               915   419       908    543     970  1,161   1,110  1,129    1,144   1,901
TOTAL UABIUTIES
AND UQUIDITY             1j71    926    1.987  1.3    2297  S.86   2.9  2.143                  2,830
Eaut
Reserve fund               50    405        -   427         -   626        -      -     100
Other funds              3,165  3,211   3,489  3,052   3,450  3,417  3,281  3,901  . 3,453   4,426
Current year's profit     426   414       280   561       438    320            437     577      12
TOTAL EQUITY             3.1  4.03    3.76   4.04              4.3            4        4.130   4.9
TOTAL UABIUTIES
AND EQUITY              5.8      4.956   5.75     fQ                  &JA 6.  .41      M    ZSZ6
Current rato              1.8    4.2     2.0    4.4      2.0    2.4    1.9    2.6       1.9    2.2
Debt/equity ratio       10/90  8/92    15/85  18/82  18/82  12/88  21/79  19/81   23/77  16/84
./ Provisional
Source:   Supervision Reports and SAR, August 1991



- 92 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
A. Selected Operational Statistics - MAV
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989 1990
1. Percentaae
share of
traction
Electric                            53    55    57    59    61    60    61    65    69    70    50
Diesel                              44    43    41    40    39    40    39    35    31    30    50
Steam                                A      2     2     1                        - _
100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100
2. UtilizatIon of traction
& rollina stock
(km per day)
A. Passenaer TrafRic
leetric loco                      498   462   475   480   500   510   514   508   522   519   529
Diesel loco                        322   307   321   332   333   338   337   335   310   329   304
Steam loco                          185   187   190   173   159   150   307    34    14   288   180
B. Freiaht Traffic
Electric loco                      324   304   345   353   329   339   342   332   348   345   348
Diesel loco                        222   218   221   219   207   199   192   190   191   193   188
Steam loco                          135    83   104   100    99
C,.Availab l (%)
Electric loco                       84    82    80    82    81    75    74    80    83    84    85
Diesel loco                         79    76    75    77    77    76    77    77    80    82    82
Coaches                             92    90    89    90    67    78    88    87    88    78    87
Frelght wagons                      94    94    93    83    77   NA    90    88    89    88    84
3. Staff Productivity
Employee per km
of line                             17.9  17.6  17.4  17.4  17.3  17.5  17.8  17.0  17.0  16.5   17.2
Traffic units
per employee                       282   286   276   260   263   256   255   258   254   254   225
(259) (262) (287) (272)  (277) (282)
Figures within parentheses indicate appraisal estimate, and no estimate was made at
appraisal beyond 1989.
Source: Supervision Report
August 1991



93 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
B. Selected Operational Statistics - HC
1980    1981   1982   1983   1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  1990
1. Total ton-km
performed
(million)           1,013   1,077  1,215  1,396  1,582   1,636  1,808  1,960  2,203  2,264  2,066
2. Average vehicle
utliation
(1000 km)             72.5    73.2   80.7   82.8   83.8    GI .0   83.9   90.3   95.1   99.9  97.0
3. Average Tr.
distance
(km)                I,&q6   1,548  1,490  1,458  1,448   1,334  1,341   1,409  1,491   1,503   1,568
4. Average time
taken for
completing
the average
distances
(days)                 4.8     5.2    4.6    4.5    4.5    4.1    3.9    3.9    3.7    3.5  3.6
5. Staff productivity
('000 ton-km
per employee)        251.2   275.4  274.9  314.8  306.2   314.5  348.2  378.5  405.7  408.8  380.9
Source: Supervision Reports and SAR
August 1991



MAP SECTION



TRANSPORT PROJUCT                                                  CONQAINLR TRMINAES
-    COMPLETED MOlORWAY UNDER TRANSPORT IRAIL/ROAD) PROJECT          I      20  40 TONS
- -     MOTORWAY CONSTRUCTION UNDER ONGOING                                 5 S TONS
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT 
PLANNED EVENTUAE CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                            C Z E C H O  S L O  V A K I A
.LJ ,+  MARSHALLING YARD                                                   EXISTING MOTORWNYS
*    CONIAINER TERMINALS                                         -       MOTORWAYS UNDUR CONSTRUCTION
RAIQWAY IJYT ilYNlTL.AJJ-    MAIN NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                        '
-   DOU3S: TACK ELECTR:'ICATION                                       SECONDARY NATIONAL ROADS
DOUBLING OF EXISTING TRACKS                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 ,_'                                                  Dohen                        U. S. S. R.
1I    TRACK REHABILITATION                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        /
Tel,,d,iEioA  EXISTING RAILWAY NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (fORMER)
- -'r----tt- DOUBLE TRACKS
-  /-,  SINGLL TRAC(S                                                                                                                   P                       /                                                     PenYe6Like
PRIVATE TRACK IGUSEVI )i(< /2g..St>
+MARSHALLING YARDS fi'\_         
A U S Tffl R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $-A
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0   20   40   60 XIIOMETERS     ~            ~           ~            CWpP,(IA~Kp,LIDW,UT~Rep 
TK                  ,;
bw                                                                                t-Y. 1I Le,                                             0  Ld..      r.RoR?



