Document 'f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3974-EU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US073.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
March 4, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984       December 1984
Currency Unit   =       Forint (Ft)
USti            -       Ft 48.04             Ft 50.8
Ft I            =       US$o.021             US$0.195
Exchange rate used in calculating project costs and benefits:
USS1.0     Ft  50
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBRE.LATIONS
CEA           -    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EPA           -    Environmental Protection Agency (US)
GMP           -    Good Manufacturing Practices
GLP           -    Good Laboratory Practices
GYKI          -    Institute for Drug Research
MDI           -    Methyl Diphenyl Diisocyanate
NBH           -    National Bank of Hungary
NEVIKI        -    Research Institute for Heavy Chemicals
OECD          -    Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development
SDB           -    State Development Bank



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
TLoan and Project Summary
Borrower:       National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Guarantor:      Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries:  Eight chemical companies, two research institutes and a design
and engineering institute.
Amount:         US$73 million equivalent.
Terms:          Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending       US$72.6 million o£ the proposed loan would be onlent to
Terms:        beneficiary enterprises for periods up to 15 years, including
up to four years of grace, at an interest rate equal to at
least the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up which includes a fee to
cover the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH.
Project         The proposed project seeks to increase and diversify
Description:  production of fine chemicals, particularly pharmaceuticals,
and in keeping with the Bank's assistance strategy to Hungary
is designed to increase foreign exchange earnings in
convertible currencies through the expansion of exports and
import substitution. The major project components consist of
(a) investments by five pharmaceutical enterprises to expand
the production of selected final products and intermediates
and to upgrade production processes to internationally
accepted Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) standards; (b) the
construction of a 25,000 tons per year methyl-diphenyl-
diisocyanate (MDI) plant as a basis for initiating production
of certain types of polyurethanes to supply both the domestic
and export markets; (c) a plant with 15,000 m3 annual
capacity to produce ion exchange resins; (d) investments by
two enterprises to expand production of selected plant
protection chemicals and their intermediates; (e) a 4,000 tpy
sulfonation plant to supply intermediates, presently imported,
for the production of detergents; (f) construction of an
organic waste incinerator with a capacity of about 25,000 tons
per annum; (g) modern equipment required by enterprises and
research institutes for research and testing of pharmaceutical
and plant protection products; (h) assistance to the
pharmaceutical industry in conducting clinical trials and
registration abroad of selected final products for sale in
OECD markets on a pilot basis; and (i) technical assistance
and training.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization|



- ii -
Project       The project is expected to generate incremental sales
Benefits    revenues at full development of about US$274 million
and Risks:  equivalent and pretax profits of about US$88 million equivalent
per annum. The estimated incremental contribution to the
Government budget in the form of annual income tax is estimated
at USg47 million equivalent. Net foreign exchange earnings and
savings are estimated at US$106 million equivalent per year.
The project is expected to assist the project beneficiaries in
significantly upgrading their technical level of production.
Other benefits include the strengthening of planning and
marketing systems, particularly in export markets, significant
energy savings in construction from the use of MDI-based
polyurethane foams, and the reduction of envircnmental pollution
through the incineration of solid wastes and measures to control
to acceptable levels air and liquid pollutants. Furthermore, by
upgrading the quality of production processes, the project would
strengthen the pharmaceutical iudustry's ability to continue to
compete in selling active ingredients and final products in
convertible currency markets. The main risks of the project
concern the MDI and pharmaceutical components. The
profitability of investments in the pharmaceutical subprojects
will depend on the effectiveness of the companies' research and
development efforts to develop innovative products or better,
cheaper processes for existing drugs. Similarly, the extent of
the profits on the MDI project will depend on the company's
ability to develop polyurethane systems and appropriate
marketing arrangements. The project includes assistance for
strengthening R and D and marketing systems, and, based on
conservative assumptions about product development and prices,
is justified economically.
Estimated Costs;                                   Local    Foreign    Total
…-- US$ Million -----
Production Investments
Pharmaceuticals and intermediates           74.7       49.3      124.0
Plant protection chemicals                   4.7        2.7        7.4
MDI and polyurethane systems                28.2       27.1       55.3
Ion exchange resins                         13.9        4.7       18.6
Detergent intermediates                      0.9         1.1       2.0
Incremental working capital                 14.3        3.6       17.9
Research and Development                        3.0         4.8       7.8
Pilot Marketing Scheme for Pharmaceuticals    0.1           8.3       8.4
Studies, Training, Technical Assistance         0.6        0.8        1.4
Base Cost                                  140.4      102.5      242.9
Physical Contingencies                      12.5         9.1      21.6
Price Contingencies                         26.3       20.7       47.0
Total Project Cost                            179.2 1/   132.3      311.5
/A Includes $18.7 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
US $ Million --
World Bank                                          -       73.0      73.0
Beneficiaries                                      70.1      -        70.1
NBH                                                97.3     56.8    154.1
SDB                                                 3.0      2.5       5.5
Government                                          8.8     -          8.8
Total                                          179.2    132.3    311.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY                         1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
-US$ Million --
Annual                           6.6     16.8      26.2     15.4       8.0
Cumulative                       6.6     23.4      49.6     65.0      73.0
Economic Rate of P_turn:   About 36 percent.
Appraisal Report: No.5400-HU, dated February 27, 1985.
.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR A FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) with the guarantee of the Hungarian
People's Republic for the equivalent of US$73 million to help finance a fine
chemicals project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years
of grace at the standard variable interest rate. About $72.6 million of the
w       loan proceeds would be onlent to enterprises and research and design
institutes for terms not exceeding 15 years including 2-4 years of grace at an
interest rate equal to at least the Bank rate plus a 30Z mark-up which
includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH. The balance
of about $0.4 mnillion would be passed on to the Ministry of Industry (for
studies and training) which would be responsible for servicing this portion of
the Bank loan. Cofinancing from conmercial lending institutions is being
sought for this project in conjunction with a Livestock Industry project and a
Transport project, which are also being considered for Bank financing.
PART I: THE ECONOMY''
2.        Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-HU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Investment Review Mission visited Hungary in October/November 1984 and its
preliminary findings are included in this section. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is
a small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1984,
covering an area of 93,000 square km. Hungary has historically been a nexus
of social, cultural, and trade linkages between Eastern and Western Europe.
It is a country of relatively meager natural resources, although it has
significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite and some hydrocarbons, and
advantageous conditions for some agricultural products. It has a long history
of industrialization in certain branches of industry (notably textiles and
other light industries), which has been extended in the decades since World
War II to heavy industries, including chemicals, metallurgy and engineering.
The country has a homogeneous population with a single language. Being
relatively small and without major topographical diversity between regions,
Hungary is not marked by regional disparities in development. Incomes are
Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Livestock Industry
project, to be considered by the Executive Directors on March 26, 1985.



- 2 -
also quite evenly distributed as a matter of social policy, and most services
are of a moderately high standard. While on the whole the population enjoys a
standard of living higher than in many countries of Eastern Europe, wage
levels remain low, the choice of consumer goods is relatively limited, and
there are still major deficiencies in housing and in access to potable water
and sewerage facilities, particularly in rural areas.
The Economic System
4.        The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when
planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was fully
centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Since 1968, the year that marked the major break with the
previous system, the emphasis in reform has been twofold: on strengthening the
influence of the market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of
"economic regulators" through which the State maintains control of overall
economic activity. These regulators include credit control through the
centralized National Bank and the State Development Bank, which are the only
two sources of credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation through
centrally determined formulae; and the regulation of the net surplus from
production through a series of fiscal measures and control over enterprise
reserve funds. The State has direct control over certain investments,
generally in infrastructure and large capital-intensive plants, which are
largely financed directly by the Dudget or from State Development Bank loans.
5.        The "Socialist" sector, comprising all enterprises, state farms and
agricultural cooperatives, accounts for some 90% of GDP. Private activity is
evident in the so-called "second economy" where individuals enter into
production, trade and service activities for their own benefit. The second
economy is particularly important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings is a large share of the total. In industry,
also, the practice for workers in enterprises to group together into "Contract
Work Associations" to utilize the industrial plant after hours, has been
increasing. These second economy activities are encouraged as a means of
raising labor productivity, increasing capacity utilization, and enhancing
personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Lang-term Trends
6.        The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (41% in 1984
with 39% of total employment), reflecting a more advanced degree of
industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high share of
heavy industry in total industrial output (67% in 1984), reflecting the
emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries; (c) a
relatively high share of the labor force employed in agriculture (22% in 1984)
compared to industrial market economies, implying that, in principle, there is
significant scope for labor productivity growth and further shifts of labor
out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign trade



(about 40%). Hungary's high trade dependence makes it vulnerable to shifts in
world trade and prices, and is a principal factor underlying the reforms which
aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy to changes in world
markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy consumption and a
large proportion of its other inputs to indus.try. While manufactures
constitute a major share of total exports (64% in 1984), they are more
significant with respect to exports to the CMEA countries; major shares of
exports to convertible currency markets are comprised of agricultural
commodities (about 30%) and raw materials (about 32%).
*    7.         From 1975 to 1984, GDP grew in real terms by an average of 2.8%
p.a., led by industry (3.8%). Services and agriculture grew less rapidly at
about 2.5% and 3.6%, respectively. Since Hungary's population growth is
almost stagnant, growing at an average rate of 0.19% per annum in the period
1975-84, growth in per capita income was almost equal to growth in GDP. This
has mednt that in the past the State has been able to sustain a high
invest.ent rate while still maintaining a significant real increase in
consumption, which grew by 2.2% per annum during the period. However, wages
remain low in Hungary, and in 1984 the average wage in industry in the
Socialist sector was about US$100 per month. Social benefits (in consumer
subsidies and services), however, represent a significant part of household
incomes.
8.        Hungary's low population growth has resulted in a virtual stagnation
of the labor force; during the period 1975-84 it actually declined by 0.3%
p.a. Moreover, total employment also declined by 145,000 jobs, despite the
substantial growth in GDP. This has led to a growing perception of a labor
shortage in Hungary which has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt
modern techniques to raise labor productivity, and shift laboi out of
overmanned positions into more efficient activities. Some of this is evident
in the changing pattern of employment over recent years. During the 1975-84
period, for example, there were net employment shifts out of agriculture and
less efficient industry in the urban centers into smaller scale, rural based
industry, and into the service sector.
Government Policies
9.        Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities in development, and the relatively equal distribution of income
*    that its policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do
not rank as the first priorities of policy. While raising general living
standards is a major objective, the policy focus centers on the structural
issues of investment, growth, and efficiency.  More recently, in response to
growing liquidity pressures in the convertible currency accounts brought about
by the combined effects of Hungary's debt burden, its propensity to import,
and the relative softening of world export markets, there has been a priority
focus on restoring the external balance. During 1982 the country faced both a
financial crisis and a loss of confidence within the international banking
community. In the first quarter of that year, the withdrawal of foreign
currency balances by major depositors brought reserves down from $1.7 billion
to $0.5 billion, barely one month of convertible currency imports cf goods and
services. In this situation the Government secured the support of the IMF to



- 4 -
restore its financial balances and build up the country's depleted reserves
through a stringent stabilization program.-'
10.       The Government has also recognized the need to make longer run
structural adjustments but can do so only insofar as present financial
constraints permit. These structural objectives include institutional changes
as well as modifications in the structure of economic activity to reflect the
changed conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of prime importance is
the need to become more competitive in the convertible currency markets for
manufactures, increase the exportable surplus of agricultural products, and
reduce imports of energy and raw materials. To raise the net convertible
currency yield from production and trade will require greater efficiency in
production, improved product quality and, in turn, an upgrading of the
country's productive investment, much of which is outdated and based on
energy- and input-intensive technologies.
11.       While the economic reforms--involving market-based pricing and
increased enterprise autonomy--are the centerpiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set certain measures in place to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
priority lines of credit in the National Bank--for energy saving, material
recycling, and export-oriented investments-and the adoption of certain
"'centralized development programs" in priority industries through which the
State coordinates and supports enterprise investments.
Recent Economic Developments
12.       Hungary has been successful in surmounting the external financing
crisis which arose in 1982. Two interrelated factors have contributed to
this. First, the stabilization program begun in 1979 and strengthened after
1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrangements has been
successfully implemented; in 1983 it generated a $300 million surplus in the
convertible currency account (about 8% of total imports of goods) and in 1984
it has given rise to a surplus of about $350 million. Second, there has been
a return of confidence in Hungary in the international capital markets, as
evidenced by the increasing amounts of loans available from commercial banks.
Medium- and long-term capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-84
period are expected to total about $3.7 billion including $663 million raised
through Bank cofinancing. Net convertible currency capital inflows for the
period are estimated at $900 million. The combined effects of the current
account surpluses and the large medium- and long-term borrowing has led to a
rapid growth in convertible reserves: in 1984 they were about 75% above the
average figure for 1983 (quarterly data). Nevertheless, despite this
strengthening of reserves, the need for continued emphasis on maintaining a
stable external balance remains. There is a need to bring about some
reduction in the overall debt levels while expanding the country's import
capacity to improve its growth prospects.
An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in December
1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was approved in
January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently contemplated.



13.       With regard to non-convertible currency transactions, the country
has had to cope with stagnating supplies of the favorably priced oil and raw
materials imports from socialist countries and deteriorating terms of trade.
Hungary's ruble imports of fuels and electric energy declined in 1983 and, in
compliance with the stipulations of the Bucharest agreements, prices of oil
imports have been rising towtard world market levels; in 1982, terms of trade
with the ruble area deteriorated by 3.1%, in 1983, by 2.7%, and a further
decline of about 2% was estimated for 1984. In addition, the lines of credit
to finance ruble trade deficits have been curtailed. Hungary's response has
been to increase exports in order to reduce the trade gap and stabilize or
reduce the debt to the non-convertible currency area.. Ruble exports increased
by about 3% in 1983 and by about 6% in 1984 (in real terms).
14.       The improvement of the country's external balance has to a great
extent been brought about by tight demand management policies. In 1983,
although reductions in aggregate demand fell short of targets, gross fixed
investment was reduced by about 3%--largely through decreases in enterprise
investment-and consumption was constrained to 0.3% growth. In 1984, demand
management controls were relaxed somewhat, and domestic absorption
(consunption plus investment) remained nearly constant. However, control of
aggregate demand, limited external financing, and only a moderate expansion in
exports considerably restricted output growth; in 1983, GDP grew by about
0.8%, and in 1984, by about 2.4%.
External Debt
15.       In September 1984, Hungary's mediun- and long-term debt was $7.8
billion (of which $6.8 billion was in convertible currencies), representing
about 41% of GDP. Current Government policy is to gradually reduce the M&LT
debt and lengthen its average maturity from 5 to 6 years. Moreover, policy
strives to limit the expansion of short-term borrowing.
16.       Hungary is currently servicing a bulge in the profile of debt
amortizations, and debt service in 1983 and 1984 has been high ($2.0 billion
in 1983 and about $2.4 billion in 1984). Bank projections indicate that the
convertible currency debt-service ratio (amortizations plus interest payments
on M&LT debt, divided by exports of goods and services) will rise from 41% in
1984 to a peak of 44% in 1985 and then decline to about 20% by the end of the
decade.
17.       Debt in non-convertible currencies is smaller, about $1.0 billion in
September 1984--more than three-quarters of it in inter-government long-term
credit. The non-convertible currency debt service ratio is low (about 3%),
due to the low interest rates and long maturities.
Medium-term Outlook
18.       After a period of relatively slow growth, an upturn in the economy
is anticipated toward the end of the decade: GDP is projected to grow by 2.7%
p.a. in 1984-87 and by 3.6% p.a. in 1988-90. Bank projections indicate that
it may be possible to ease stabilization program restrictions after 1987,



although some restraint of aggregate demand will have to be maintained
throughout the decade to ensure continued surpluses in the current account.
Government authorities plan to increase wages moderately in real terms, but
keep consumption growth below that of GDP. Investment is expected to be held
down to a 1%-2% growth per ar.num during 1984-87, but to rise more rapidly
thereafter.
19.       The favorable impact of the structural adjustment effort on the
country's economic growth path will be more fully perceived during the second
half of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to be the leading
beneficiary of the restructuring effort and grow at an average rate of about
4%-4.5%. A more conservative average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (3.0%). Notwithstanding the marked deficiencies in
certain areas of the service sector's infrastructure, rapid improvements-are
not contemplated in Government plans for the coming years, and the growth of
the sector is expected to lag.
External Capital Requirements
20.       Bank projections until 1988 indicate that Hungary's annual
amortization of its convertible currency medium- and long-term debt will
average about $1.7 billion (including repayments to the IMF). If
stabilization efforts continue to be successful and surpluses in the current
account can be sustained at an average level of about $400 million, gross M&LT
capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.3 billion p.a. Bank
financing will provide some of those capital needs. The rest will have to be
obtained from commercial banks. The projected borrowing requirements appear
high compared to the level of financing obtained in 1982, but they are below
the gross M&LT capital inflows for 1983 and 1984. The Bank's presence in
future cofinancing operations remains important in facilitating-as it has in
the past two years--Hungary's continued access to the international capital
markets. In 1989-90, the situation should improve considerably, for annual
amortizations should decline to about $1.1 billion. At that time, it will be
possible to relax the efforts to restrain import demand, thus permitting
faster economic growth.
Country Performance and Creditworthiness
21.       Hungary is in a better external liquidity situation than it was two
years ago. Although the balance of payments continues to be highly vulnerable
to external shocks, continued strong demand management provides reasonable
assurance that the economy will remain sound in the medium term. The
prospects for a moderate upturn in the Hungarian economy during the latter
part of the decade appear promising in the light of the authorities'
commitment to a comprehensive structural adjustment program designed to
strengthen the role of the market in the operation of the economy. The policy
dialogue at the macro and micro levels between the Hungarian authorities and
the Bank has been fruitful. In view of the country's growing ability to adapt
to a changing world environment, as evidenced by the gradual but firm
stabilization policies implemented during the past two years, its well
organized management system with effective institutions and clear policy
objectives, and its reasonably good prospects for maintaining external balance
and re-establishing a moderate rate of growth in the coming years, Hungary is
considered creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARYI'
22.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$678.4 million for ten loans (including four 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture and
energy.
23.       Given the country's per capita income, the Bank's lending to Hungary
for the next few years will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
*     in the productive sectors:  agriculture, industry, energy and transport.  The
Bank generally concurs with this selection of priorities, and has chosen to
support Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based lending
aimed at export generation; -import substitution, particularly in the energy
sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant upgrading
and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more efficient
input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality; and
industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise activities
and encourage more efficient industries to produce components.
24.       The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the Bank
was a successful catalyst in mobilizing four commercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization and the
Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects and a 385 million
Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for the
Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects. The Bank
participated in these syndications with 'B' loans of $30 million and $8.8
million equivalent, respectively, for the first two projects, and $35 million
and $12.2 million equivalent, respectively, for the latter two projects. In
both these cofinancing operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over
the most recent Hungarian borrowings and to introduce Hungary to commercial
banks from which it had not borrowed previously.
25.       The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade. The Bank has
already reviewed the coal and power subsectors, the chemical subsector and the
*     transport sector.  These sector studies are providing valuable policy inputs
for the Bank's dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when
further reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the
impact of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already
been initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Bank drew
the Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest
rebates as an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the
authorities eliminated the system of interest rebates starting January 1,
1984. Training through EDI was initiated with a first course on the financial
and economic evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest.
Two procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to
t' Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Livestock Industry project, to be considered by the Executive Directors
on March 26, 1985.



- 8 -
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarians who requested further
cooperation in this area. Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January, 1985, in Budapest.
26.       The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt.  However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14% of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 91 by thaL time.
27.       Hungary's applications for membership in IFC and IDA have been
approved by the Governors of IFC and IDA.
PART III. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance
28.       The development of the industrial sector has been the principal
driving force in the transformation of Hungary from a largely agrarian society
to a relatively modern economy in a space of three decades. Industrialization
in Hungary has relied heavily on imported raw materials as the country has few
natural resources; these are limited to small reserves of iron ore, petroleum
and natural gas, and large deposits of low grade bauxite and coal. Industry
generates over 40% of GDP, provides nearly 401 of total employment, and
accounts for a third of total gross capital formation and almost 75Z of the
country's exports. Half of industrial exports are sold in convertible
currency markets. The sector is composed essentially of 725 state enterprises
and 635 cooperatives; the latter represent 61 of industrial output and 141 of
industrial employment.
29.       Industrial development in the initial phase (1948-1967) was marked
by rapid growth (about 71 per annum in real terms) and was driven by the
desire to attain early self-sufficiency. Priority in resource allocation was,
therefore, give!n to heavy industry (essentially steel, chemicals and cement).
However, as a result of constraints on capital and labor availability which
emerged in the late 1960s, the Government shifted in 1968 to a new industrial
policy emphasizing increased productivity and efficiency. This is gradually
changing the industrial structure. While heavy industry has maintained its
dominance, a significant expansion has taken place in higher technology
industries such as pharmaceuticals, telecommunications and electronic
equipment, and electrical engineering. The large investments made in some
heavy industries, particularly metallurgy and petrochemicals, have not
produced the expected benefits, due mainly to adverse price and market
conditions in the early 1980s. Gross industrial production grew at 6.41 per
year between 1970-75, 3.41 during 1976-80 and 21 in 1981-83.
Constraints on Industry's Performance
30.       The adverse trend of the late 1970s in the world economy, the
resulting deterioration in Hungary's terms of trade and increasing



- 9 -
difficulties for its exports have accentuated the major shortcomings of
Hungarian industry. A conspicuous problem is the unusually high consumption
of raw materials and energy in the production process, particularly in heavy
industry. The main causes of this problem are the sti'l prevailing focus of
enterprise managers on maximizing gross output, an objective strongly
encouraged under the former system of strict central planning, and use ot
obsolete or inappropriate technologies. Imports of input-conserving modern
technologies from the West to addresb this problem have been limited because
of severe foreign exchange constraints since 1978.
31.       Other significant problems are the lack of specialization within the
industrial sector and the low rate of innovations to replace obsolete
products. Compounding these problems are the absence of an appropriate number
of small and medium-sized firms which, in highly industrialized countries,
provide the larger enterprises with specialized or innovative components and
services of high technology and value. The third major problem is
insufficient reallocation of production factors to efficient industries,
resulting from the slow responsiveness of industry to reform measures and
policies. This is largely because of the high degree of concentration in
Hungarian industry which is characterized by large enterprises. For instance,
over 60% of industrial output is generated by about 100 enterprises, and
one-third of the labor force is concentrated in 38 enterprises, each employing
more than 5,000 workers.
Industrial Policy and Objectives
32.       The Government is fully aware of the wea1nesses of the industrial
sector and has expressed its determination to press forward with structural
adjustments and the realignment of the sector to the world market. In this
respect, it has three basic objectives: the first is to expand industrial
exports; the second is to conserve the use of raw materials and energy; the
third is the promotion of efficient import-substitution of specialized
components and parts.
33.       A major thrust of the Government's industrial reform is to limit the
intervention of central authorities and to create an environment, through the
use of appropriate incentives and other measures, within which enterprises can
operate efficiently. Strict central planning is limited now to large state
investments in mining and energy, which represent one-third of total
*      industrial investments.  The management of enterprises has been
decentralized. To reduce the concentration of enterprise activities and
promote competition and specialization, the authorities disbanded most of the
large industrial trusts in the late 1970s and are encouraging more small and
medium-sized firms catering to the larger enterprises' need for high
technology components. Restructuring of industry is also being encouraged
through increased emphasis on domestic technical innovations, import of
advanced foreign technology, ..rd cooperation agreements with western companies.
The Chemical Subsector
34.       The Country Industrial Sector Strategy Paper which was prepared by
the Bank and discussed with the Hungarian authorities in late 1983 (Report



- 10 -
No. 4778-HU of January 1984) identified the chemical subsector as one which
had grown rapidly within the industrial sector and which exhibited clear
growth potential with good prospects for exports and import substitution.
35.      In April/May 1984, a Chemical Sector Review mission of the Bank
visited Hungary to review the status of the industry, identify its development
potential and major constraints, and define the rationale for Bank support.
The mission concluded that, beyond plant capacities required to meet domestic
demand, Hungary holds no medium- or long-term advantage in further developing
its basic chemicals industry for export.
36.      Hungary, however, has a large number of highly qualified scientists
and engineers working in research and development in companies and research
institutes at substantially lower salaries than their counterparts in western
countries. This availability of low-cost, highly educated manpower is
considered a major element of Hungary's potential competitiveness in fields
involving substantial "software" costs, such as pharmaceuticals and other fine
chemicals with tight quality specifications.
37.      The mission therefore concluded that efforts should be intensified to
diversify the industry towards: (a) higher value-added fine and specialty
chemicals and pharmaceuticals; and (b) the processing of presently exported
petrochemical raw materials into either fine chemicals with good export
prospects, their intermediates, or standard chemicals for the domestic market,
but only when economically justified by transport cost advantages and the size
of the market. The fertilizer industry, however, should be restructured, as
many plants are too small and/or energy-intensive to be economic.
38.      Fine chemicals production in Hungary consists essentially of
pharmaceuticals, plant protection chemicals, and other chemicals such as
specialty polymers and resins, detergents, cosmetics, household chemicals, and
photochemicals. Together, the value of total output of fine chemicals in 1982
amounted to about US$ 0.9 billion or about 45Z of total output value of-the
chemical subsector (excluding refineries and town gas production and plastic
and rubber processing). Pharmaceuticals (US$ 0.4 billion) were by far the
most important branch, followed by plant protection chemicals (US$ 0.2
billion) and other fine chemicals (US$ 0.3 billion).
39.      Pharmaceuticals.  The pharmaceutical industry in Hungary is over 100
years old and has a long-established innovation and export tradition and a
good international reputation for producing quality products. It is the
world's ninth exporter of pharmaceuticals. The industry exports about half
its total output, and about 402 of exports are directed to convertible
currency areas. Pharmaceutical exports represent 20Z of convertible currency
exports of the chemical industry.
40.      Between 1970 and 1980, Hungarian output of pharmaceuticals grew by an
average of 6.2X per year, while exports to convertible currency areas grew at
an average rate of 17.4X per year. Since 1980, however, convertible currency
exports have grown by only 6X-7% annually, as a large share of these exports
go to institutional markets of developing countries whose increasing economic
problems have impaired their ability to order and pay for the drugs.



- 11 -
41.      Pharmaceutical exports totalled almost US$300 million in 1983, of
which two thirds were finished formulations and the remainder active
ingredients. The current pattern of pharmaceutical exports is as follows:
nearly 90% of finished formulations are sold to CMEA markets and the bulk of
the remainder to developing countries; 70% of active ingredients are sold to
developed country convertible currency markets and the balance to developing
countries.
42.      Hungary's comparative advantage and future prospects for the industry
were analyzed within the framework of a study financed under the Industrial
Export and Restructuring Project (Loan 2397-HU). The future strategy for the
industry was extensively discussed during appraisal with the Association of
Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers as well as with the management and
staff of each of the six pharmaceutical companies. The major conclusion of
that review was that the industry has a much higher potential to earn
convertible currencies by: (i) shifting production towards higher priced
products (less bulk drugs and active ingredients and more formulations into
dosage forms); (ii) focusing research more on developing original products in
growth areas (such as cardiovasculars, cancer therapy agents and
psychotropics) and less on process development for existing drugs; and (iii)
increasing penetration of developed country markets, particularly for new
drugs. A further conclusion was that, while in the short- and medium-term
there is still significant scope for increasing exports using traditional
channels, in the long-term the risks for the industry of pursuing its present
strategy will increase because: (a) markets for tenders for standard
formulations and for bulk active ingredients are not secure, because they are
governed exclusively by price competition as long as the products meet
acceptable quality standards, and Hungary's position will be increasingly
challenged by new low-cost producers; (b) the potential for further expansion
of exports to developing country markets is affected by their budgetary and
foreign exchange restrictions and, increasingly, by domestic competition as
the largest LDCs establish their cwn pharmaceutical industries; and (c)
finally, OECD countries represent two thirds of world pharmaceutical markets
and are virtually the only markets for innovative products.
43.      A balanced strategy for the future development of the Hungarian
pharmaceutical industry calls for the industry to explore alternative ways to
market its innovations in OECD countries under its own or jointly owned brand
name. So far, action has been hampered by various factors, including
*      formulation facilities not meeting international Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP) standards.  GMP standards are required by foreign regulatory authorities
(e.g., the FDA in the USA) before permitting the entry of foreign formulated
pharmaceutical preparations into their domestic markets.  Under the Fine
Chemicals project, the Bank would finance the installation of formulation
facilities meeting GMP standards, to come on-stream in 1988, in the four
largest pharmaceutical companies.
44.      A change in marketing strategy needs to be gradual and geared to the
companies' ability to assume the associated financial burden and risks.
Depending on the markets chosen, the type of products, and the options
available, the marketing of brand-name formulations could be approached in a
variety of ways (e.g., by entering into joint ventures, by purchasing existing



- 12 -
firms with established marketing networks or even by establishing a new
network), but in all cases the negotiating power of the Hungarian companies
would be considerably strengthened if they were in a position to pay for the
drugs' pre-marketing expenses (for clinical trials and registration). Through
the Fine Chemicals project, the Hungarian industry would be assisted in
funding on a pilot basis pre-marketing clinical trials and registration
expenses for a limited number of products in selected OECD countries on credit
terms acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B).
45.      Plant Protection Chemicals.  In contrast to the pharmaceutical
industry, the development of the pesticide industry started only in the early
1960s, in response to rapid growth in domestic demand. In the early 1970s,
production for export to CMEA countries became important, particularly under
the Agrochemical Agreement with the Soviet Union. In 1983, 60% of total
production was consumed domestically, 30Z was exported to CMEA markets, and
lOZ to convertible currency markets. Domestic production satisfies about 75Z
of domestic demand. The balance, consisting of specialties not produced in
Hungary, is imported essentially from convertible currency countries. Today,
over 400 different products of all types are on sale in Hungary.
46.      Production of plant protection chemicals and their intermediates,
spread among ten companies, consists of formulated commodity chemicals (with
expired or nearly expired patents) and chemicals produced under license from
large foreign corporations for marketing in Hungary and in the CMEA markets
(80 of exports to CMEA markets are formulated chemicals produced under
license). Exports to convertible currency areas essentially consist of active
ingredients, produced in excess of domestic requirements, which are formulated
abroad by purchasing corporations and sold under their own brand names.
Production of plant protection chemicals is still based heavily on imported
intermediates and active substances.
47.      While the Government's declared policy is to encourage greater
exports to convertible currency markets, one of the major constraints to such
exports is that domestic toxicological tests are not accepted on the major
developed country markets as the Hungarian testing facilities do not meet
international Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) standards. Such tests are
generally required on all products, and since their foreign cost is high, most
companies cannot afford to repeat them abroad. Hungarian companies have thus
increasing difficulties in meeting tender requirements even for standard
products.
48.      An appropriate strategy for this branch should focus on:  (a)
upgrading domestic testing facilities to meet GLP standards and to perform the
whole range of tests required, so that the testing organization the Research
rnstitute for Heavy Chemicals (NEVIKI), may be put on the list of approved
facilities by foreign registration authorities (b) developing the local
production of intermediates to replace imported products; and (c) focusing
available investment funds on companies which have stepped up their R and D
efforts on original products with good market potential on the domestic as
well as export marksts. Such a strategy would be supported under the project
through the funding of investments for the production of selected plant
protection chemicals, intermediates, testing facilities, and studies.



- 13 -
49.      Other Fine Chemicals.  This category encompasses a wide variety of
products, including paints and varnishes, detergents, cosmetics and household
chemicals, specialty polymers and resins (polyurethane systems, ion exchange
resins, and others), and photochemicals, produced mainly for domestic
consumption. Their production is widely distributed among all chemical
enterprises, although each product type is normally produced by one or two
companies only. The Fine Chemicals project includes investments to increase
production of MDI-based polyurethane systems and ion exchange resins largely
for export, and intermediates for detergents, mainly for the domestic market.
Pricing
50.      Producer Prices.  In 1980, Hungary introduced the concept of
"competitive prices," by which, with few exceptions, producer prices (prices
paid to and by producers) of raw materials, intermediates, and output are
linked to world market prices, either directly (actual export and import
prices), or indirectly through specific rules and regulations. These prices
apply irrespective of whether goods are purchased or sold on the world market
for convertible currency, or from/to CMEA countries for transferable rubles,
or purchased from or sold on the domestic market.
51.      The application bf this system is especially wide in the chemical
sector, for two reasons: (a) the industry lacks domestic raw materials (over
40Z of all material and energy consumption of the chemical sector was directly
imported in 1981, versus 277 for industry in general); and (b) the small size
of the domestic market and the large plant capacities commanded by economies
of scale for most bulk chemicals (including intermediates) have resulted in a
substantial share of tota'l production being exported (20% on average for the
industry, this percentage increasing substantially for intermediates and bulk
materials).
52.      Consumer Prices.  Consumer prices for drugs are subsidized as a
matter of social policy, the Hungarian public paying a nominal fee for the
pharmaceuticals purchased (between 5 and 10 cents per prescription). Prices
paid to the manufacturers are based on world prices for the same or similar
products, with the difference being met out of the Government budget. There
is no evidence that almost free access to drugs has led to large
overconsumption, and for drugs requiring a prescription, which account for 70X
of total drug sales, the control system may in fact have resulted in some
underprescribing.
53.      Pharmaceutical manufacturers must, by law, continue to supply the
local market with drugs, even if obsolescent, until they are removed from the
register by the appropriate Ministry of Health Committee (which in 1983
removed only 4 drugs from a list exceeding 1,200 items). Production of
obsolescent drugs is, however, uneconomic because it ties up capacity on the
production of small quantities of a relatively large number of low-price
drugs. Under the project, assurances were obtained that the Government would
appoint by July 1985 a commission, to include representatives from the
manufacturers and the Ministry of Health to review the procedures for
identifying obsolescent drugs and removing such drugs from the compulsory
production list and for the compensation of the manufacturers for the losses,
if any, incurred in the production of obsolescent drugs. The commission would
present its recommendations to the Government and the Bank by December 1985.



- 14 -
The Government would affor, the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
these recommendations and tI visions to the procedures, if any, would be
introduced no later than January 1, 1987 (Guarantee Agreement, Section 4.02).
Rationale for Bank Assistance
54.      The proposed project would be the third to be financed by the Bank in
the industrial sector in Hungary. The Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation project and the Industrial Exports and Restructuring project
(Loans 2317-HU and 2397-HU) were approved in June 1983 and March 1984,
respectively, and their implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Bank's role in the industrial sector is to assist the Government in its
pursuit of structural adjustments and technology improvements, a principal aim
of which is to increase convertible foreign exchange earnings or savings. The
Bank assisted the Government with advice on the investment strategy for the
chemical sector and on the selection of priority investments in the sector,
which would be supported by the proposed project. By focusing on the
production of high value-added fine chemicals, particularly pharmaceuticals,
the project would build on Hungary's comparative advantage in fields requiring
a high level of R and D, based on the country's pool of low-cost, highly
qualified scientists and engineers. The project would assist in upgrading to
GMP and GLP standards production and testing of pharmaceuticals and plant
protection chemicals, a prerequisite for the marketing of final products in
developed country convertible currency markets; it would seek to strengthen
strategic planning capabilities of all chemical companies through special
training programs for the management and staff of these companies; and it
would initiate a change in long-term marketing strategy for innovations by
assisting the pharmaceutical industry to enter on a trial basis the developed
country convertible currency markets with final products sold under Hungarian
brand names. The project would also provide funds for a study of the
necessary restructuring of the fertilizer industry and identify future
development potentials in the fine chemicals industry. Thus, the project
would be consistent with the Bank's strategy for assistance to Hungary by
building on the country's competitive strengths, reorienting the direction of
investment in the chemical industry, improving the efficiency of resource use,
strengthening the balance of payments in convertible currencies, and offering
technology transfer and external technical assistance.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
55.      The project was identified during the chemical sector review in
April/May 1984 and prepared by the companies and the Ministry of Industry with
the assistance of the National Bank of Hungary. The appraisal took place in
September 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1985. The
Hungarian delegation was led by Mr. Ferenc Horvath, Secretary of State for
Industry, and included representatives from the Ministry of Industry and the
National Bank of Hungary. A report, entitled Staff Appraisal Report for a
Fine Chemicals project" (No. 5400-HU), dated February 27, 1985, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III, and a map
of the country is attached.



- 15 -
Project Description
56.      The main objective of the proposed project is to contribute to the
reorientation of the Hungarian chemical industry toward increased production
of fine and specialty chemicals with good potential for convertible currency
earnings or savings. In support of this objective, the proposed project
would: Ci) finance priority investments to increase production capacity of
selected fine chemicals to be marketed through existing channels and to
upgrade existing as well as future capacities to internationally acceptable
standards (GMP); (ii) promote the marketing of Hungarian formulations in
convertible currency developed country markets under Hungarian brand names by
assisting a pilot pre-marketing operation; (iii) upgrade and expand the
capacity of selected research and development organizations to carry out tests
necessary to achieve registration of Hungarian pharmaceutical and plant
protection chemicals abroad; (iv) assist the substitution, when economically
justified, of domestically produced for imported intermediates; and (v)
finance studies to guide the further evolution of the chemical industry,
provide training in strategic planning, and finance equipment for the
improvement of engineering design in the chemical sector.
57.      The project consists of the following major components:
(a) production investments, including: (i) investments by five
pharmaceutical enterprises in the expansion and upgrading of
production capacities of selected final products and intermediates;
(ii) construction of a 25,000 tons per year methyl-diphenyl-
diisocyanate (MDI) plant; (iii) construction of a 15,000 m3 per
year plant to produce ion exchange resins; (iv) investments by two
enterprises to expand production of selected plant protection
chemicals and intermediates; (v) construction of a 4,000 tons per
year sulfonation plant to supply intermediates for the production of
fine detergents and household chemicals; and (vi) construction of an
organic waste incinerator with a capacity of about 25,000 tons per
year;
(b) equipment necessary for the Institute for Drug Research (GYKI) and
NEVIKI as well as selected pharmaceutical companies to upgrade their
laboratories to GLP standards, to increase their testing capacity and
allow them to perform a broader range of tests on new pharmaceutical
*               and plant protection chemicals;
(c) a facility in the National Bank of Hungary to provide medium- or
long-term credit to several pharmaceutical companies to launch a
pilot pre-marketing operation in one or two developed countries (such
facility would finance clinical trials and other registration
expenses abroad of the selected drugs); and
(d) studies, training and outside consultants required for: (i)
assisting the pharmaceutical industry in developing its marketing
strategy and selecting the products and markets for the pilot
operation referred to in section (c) above; (ii) assisting the
producing enterprise in carrying out a detailed study of the optimum
marketing arrangements for the different grades and types of
application of MDI; and (iii) preparing a restructuring program for



- 16 -
the fertilizer industry and a review of potential future developments
in selected branches of the chemicals industry after 1988; and (iv) a
training program in strategic planning for the management and staff
of chemical companies, all with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
Project Cost and Financing
58.      The total financing required for the project, including physical and
price contingencies, and duties and taxes, is estimated at US$311.5 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$132.3 million
equivalent, or 42% of the financing required. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 10% of the base line cost and price contingencies were calculated
assuming annual price escalation rates of 8% in 1985-86, 7% in 1987-88, and
6.5% in 1989 for local costs, and 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986-88, and 7.5% in 1989
for foreign exchange costs. An estimated 230 man-months of foreign consulting
and engineering services will be required for the project.
59.      The proposed Bank loan of US$73 million would provide about 23% of
the total financing required, and 55% of foreign exchange requirements. The
balance of the funds needed would be provided by NBH (about US$154 million, or
49%), the sub-borrowers (about US$70 million, or 23%), and the Government
(about US$9 million) and the State Development Bank (US$3 million). Although
the financing plan is complete, the Hungarian authorities have indicated an
interest in raising cofinancing for the proposed project in conjunction with
both an Integrated Livestock Industry project and a Transport project, which
are also proposed for Bank financing. Depending on market conditions,
cofinancing using the Bank's new cofinancing instruments will be pursued on
the order of about US$420 million for all three projects, to substitute for
part of the funds provided from domestic sources.
On-Lending Arrangements
60.      NBH, the borrower of the proposed loan, would on-lend, directly or
through the State Development Bank (SDB), about US$72.6 million to project
beneficiaries, and the conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement with the SDB
and sub-loan agreements with the principal beneficiaries would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a) and
(c)). The conclusion of sub-loan agreements with the remaining beneficiaries
would be a condition of disbursement on each remaining sub-project (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1 para. 2(d)-(k)). The interest rate on these subloans
would be at least equal to the Bank's standard variable rate plus a 30%
mark-up to cover NBH's costs and the foreign exchange risk.  The interest rate
charged on the domestic sub-loans extended to beneficiaries by NBH out of its
own resources will be the standard rate specified in the Credit Policy
Guidelines of NBH.  These guidelines, which are revised annually and approved
by the Council of Ministers, set all credit policies for the Hungarian banking
system. At present, the standard rate is 14%, a rate well above the projected
domestic inflation rate (para 58). Maturities would not exceed 15 years, but
most sub-loans would range from 8-12 years from the date of first
disbursement, including up to 4 years of grace. The six major project
beneficiaries would be required to maintain at all times a debt service ratio
of not less than 1.3, a debt-equity ratio of not more than 55/45, and a



- 17 -
current ratio of not less than 1.3 (Project Agreement, Sections 4.02, 4.03 and
4.04). The balance of the proposed loan (US$0.4 million) would be on-lent to
the Government under a subsidiary loan agreement, the conclusion of which
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(b)).
Project Implementation
61.      All five pharmaceutical enterprises have well-estaLlished investment
departments which implement the capital projects of these companies. Basic
engineering for non-specialized projects and detailed engineering are provided
by Hungarian consulting firms, where the enterprise does not have adequate
capacity in-house. Construction and erection is carried out by local
contractors, supervised by the enterprises' investment departments. Foreign
procurement of goods and services would be carried out through one or other
foreign trade organization, acting as a procurement agent such, as
CHEMOKOMPLEX. The technology for the MDI subproject will be supplied by a
foreign firm which will provide licenses, know-how, and training for plant
operation and system formulation, basic engineering and supervision of
detailed engineering and construction. Hungarian consultants will provide
detailed engineering and day-to-day supervision of construction. Similar
arrangements will apply in the case of one of the subprojects for plant
protection chemicals and the sulfonation plant for the production of
intermediates for detergents. Engineering services for the construction of
the waste incinerator to be financed under the project would be provided by
the foreign equipment suppliers.
62.      Assurances were obtained that the Government would establish and
maintain a Project Coordinating Office in the Ministry of Industry responsible
for overall coordination of the project. Its principal functions would be:
gi) to ensure timely selection and appointment of engineering agencies
responsible for implementation, supervision, and procurement; (ii) to ensure
the timely preparation of bidding documents, the evaluation of bids, and the
award of contracts, and assist executing entities in the interpretation of
Bank guidelines for procurement and the selection of consultants; (iii) to
ensure the timely preparation of progress reports on individual subprojects,
and compile the progress reports to be submitted to the Bank and in preparing
the Project Completion Report; (iv) generally, to oversee project
implementation and to ensure that any matters likely to delay implementation
are promptly referred to the appropriate authorities for resolution (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 4.01). The establishment of the Project Coordinating
Office would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Sectior- 6.01(d)).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.      Goods and services to be financed from the proposed loan would be
procured according to Bank Procurement Guidelines. International competitive
bidding (ICB) would be used for goods purchased, except for items whose supply
is critical for efficient project execution, and small items under contracts
with an estimated value of less than US$200,000, which may be procured through
limited international tenderings from qualified suppliers in at least three
Bank member countries. Proprietary items may be procured through direct



- 18 -
negotiations with the suppliers. The aggregate value of equipment contracts
under the Bank loan to be procured under procedures other than ICB would not
exceed US$7 million equivalent. Hungarian bidders on contracts for goods
would qualify for the standard margin of preference of 151 or the amount of
the customs duty whichever is lower. Equipment and services not financed by
the Bank would be procured under prevailing local procedures (LCB) which
provide for efficient and economic procurement. The Bank would carry out an
ex-ante review of bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft
contracts limited to packages above US$1 million. These are estimated to
comprise about 80% of the total value of contracts to be financed by the Bank.
64.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element                     ICB       LCB      Other    N.A.        Cost
Equipment and Materials            70.4       61.1      9.4      18.7 a/   159.6
(48.1) b/            (7.0)               (55.1)
Engineering and Licenses                       9.7      8.1                  17.8
(7.8)                (7.8)
Civil Works                                   50.5                           50.5
Erection and Commissioning          2.0       35.6     12.5 c/              50.1
(2.0)                                    (2.0)
Studies and Training                                    1.3                   1.3
(0.9)                (0.9)
Pharmaceutical pre-marketing                           10.0                 10.0
(Clinical Trails)                                    (7.2)                (7.2)
Working Capital                                                  22.2       22.2
Total        72.4      156.9     41.3      40.9      311.5
(50.1)              (22.9)               (73.0)
N.A. - Not applicable.
a/ Import duties.
b/ Figures shown in brackets correspond to Bank financing.
c/  25% of erection (for a total local cost US$48.1 million equivalent) would
be by force account.
65.      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of
foreign expenditures and 100X of local expenditures (ex factory) for
equipment, materials, licenses and spare parts, and 100X of foreign
expenditures for consultants' services. In order to expedite disbursements, a
revolving fund of US$5 million, equivalent to about four months' estimated
average disbursements, would be established. This amount would be maintained
in a special account with NBH.
Reporting and Auditing
66.      The Project Coordinating Office in the Ministry of Industry would
submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports on project implementation and



- 19 -
financial statements of the six principal project beneficiaries. The Project
Coordinating Office, assisted by the Ministry of Industry, would also prepare
a project completion report to be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the project's closing date. All project entities would keep
separate accounts, which together with the financial statements of the
principal project beneficiaries would be audited by independent auditors.
NBH's accounts are audited by independent auditors. NBH would furnish to the
Bank its audited project accounts and other related documents submitted to the
Bank in support of applications for withdrawals from the Loan Account. Short
form annual audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank no later than the end
of May each year.
Environmental Impact
67.      Existing water pollution and health and safety regulations are
acceptable and are strictly enforced. Revisions to tighten air pollution
regulations are expected to be introduced in 1986. Assurances were obtained
that the Government would introduce the revised regulations, and provide
adequate resources for their enforcement in respect of the project (Guarantee
Agreement Section 4.03(a)). Assurances were also obtained that the facilities
to be financed under the project will be designed and operated according to
environmental, health, and safety standards satisfactory to the Bank (Project
Agreement, Sections 2.02 and 3.02). To handle more effectively solid wastes,
an organic waste incinerator would be constructed in Dorog under the project.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would ensure the provision of
facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, to handle the organic waste from
industries in the north-eastern part of Hungary by end January, 1989
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 4.03(b)). Assurances were also obtained that
appropriate analyses of environmental hazards connected with one subproject
producing plant protection chemicals and the MDI subproject would be made and
the recommendations arising from these analyses would be implemented not later
than the starting of these subprojects (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(b)
and (c)).
Benefits and Risks
68.      The economic rates of return on the individual subprojects range from
192 to 832, with an overall economic rate of return for the project (excluding
the incinerator, the pilot marketing operation, studies, and investments for
research) estimated at 36Z.  At full development, the project is expected to
generate incremental annual sales revenues of about US$274 million and pre-tax
profits of about US$88 million. Net foreign exchange earnings savings in
convertible currencies are estimated at about US$106 million annually at
project completion, reflecting increased exports of about US$91 million and
import savings of about US$15 million.
69.      Further benefits would flow from the energy savings expected from the
availability in Hungary of MDI-based insulation material for the building
industry, and from the improvements in environmental controls ard waste
management to be derived from the project. Moreoever, the proposed assistance
to enterprises in strategic planning and the proposed funding of clinical
trials and registration expeises abroad of selected formulations are designed
to assist the pharmaceutical industry to take advantage of new market
opportunities which could offer large potential returns. Additional
employment created by the project is expected to be small.



- 20 -
70.      The main risks facing the project concern the MDI and pharmaceutical
components. The pharmaceutical subprojects are largely multi-purpose
fermentation, synthesis and formulation plants, the profitability of which
will depend on the effectiveness of the companies' research and development
efforts in continuously producing new, marketable drugs and developing cheaper
processes for existing drugs. The financial and economic analyses have,
however, been worked out only on the basis of already developed products, and
with appropriate assumptions concerning their likely rate of obsolescence, the
subprojects show adequate rates of return. Regarding the MDI project, the
main risk lies in the company's possible inability to develop polyurethane
systems and appropriate sale strategies and back-up service, which would
compel it to sell straight MDI at discounted prices. However, the risks are
being minimized by steps already taken by the company to build up its R and D
capabilities, by the proposed marketing consulting assistance to be provided
under the project and by the strengthening of the company's internal
organization. Another risk is that MDI prices fail to recover to the
projected levels. However, the project would still remain financially
justified, unless prices were to fall significantly below the present
depressed levels which is considered unlikely.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hungarian People's
Republic and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
beneficiaries, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Tjirectors separately.
72.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III. The following are additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) the execution of subsidiary and sub-loan agreements between the
Borrower and the State Development Bank, the Guarantor and the five
principal Project Beneficiaries (Loan Agreement, Section
6.0l(a)(b)(c));
(ii)  the establishment of the Project Coordinating Office (Loan Agreement,
Sectior 6.01(d)).
73.      Additional conditions of disbursement would include the execution of    b
sub-loan agreements between the Borrower and the remaining six Project
Beneficiaries.
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
75.      I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
March 4, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX  I
-  21 -                                 Page  1  of 5  pages
HUNIT                  - SOCIAL INDICATOtS DATA SHUTN
HUNCAIT                             RFIRRNCE CROUn  (CWZITWD AVE     ) /
HDST               (HDST UCENT ESTIMTE) /b
RECRT         EAST EUROPE              IlDYIAL
9ind      t97iiob    ESTuNA./Mb  NOU*UARKT ECOCQS   MARKET ECONMIES
A     TMA (    Ql0SA=.SQ. 1)
TOTAL                                          93.0        93.0
ACRICULTURAL                        71.4       63.8        66.0
CUP .- CAPITA (US3                       ..      490.0      2270.0                 ..                1107l.0
mmaor assumoe FM CaEuA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     1354.0     2070.0      2863.0             4188.3                 4996.9
POLATIOU AM VITRL STATISrICS
POPULATION.MID-VEAR (THOUSANDS)    9964.0    10337.0    10705.6
UU"RB  POPULATION CZ o TOTAL)       40.1       47.9        S5.0               62.4                   78.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEA  2000 (HILL)                           11.0
STATIONAIY POPULATION (HILL)                             11.8
POPULATtON HOM                                            1.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Il.                      107.3       111.1      115.1               42.1                   139.3
PER SQ. KM. A1I. LAD             139.6       150.1      162.3               83.0                  519.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 YRS                         25.3        20.3       21.6               24.5                   22.1
15-64 IRS                         65.6       67.6        65.5               65.5                   51.1
hS AND ABOVE                       9.0        11.5       11.1               10.0                   11.7
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              0.7         0.3        0.3                0.8                    0.8
URRAJ                              1.5         2.1       1.                 1.8                    1.3
CRUDE B8RTN RATE (PER TUOUS)        14.7        14.7       12.5               18.4                   13.8
CRUDE DEATS RATE (PER TIOUS)        10.2        11.6       13.5               10.2                    9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RArE              1.0         1.0        L.0                1.1                    0.9
FAMILY PLANtING
ACCEPTORLS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..       149.0 Ic   711.8 /c
USERS (2 OF MARED  MEN)             ..        67.0 7d    74.0   . *
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       83.0       91.0       147.0              107.1                  114.1
PER CAPIlTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)    122.0       128.0      133.0              130.5                  132.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          85.0       86.0        92.0               98.1                   98.5
OF WEICH ANDIA.L AND PULSE      36.0        39.0       46.0 /I            53.8                   61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          4.0         2.3        1.0                0.6                    0.4
WALTM
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIRTH (YEARS)       67.9       69.5        71.0               69.9                   74.9
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)       *8.0       36.0        20.0               20.7                   10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (hPOP)
TOTAL                             22.7 k1    36.6 jg     64.9 a*-
AMN                                 ..       65.0        33.68                .
RURAL                               *-        10.61      42.38 ai
MCCESS TO EiCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
(                    TOTAL                               *-        27.2       53.3.-
URBAN                               ..        50.1 7j    72.6
RURAL                               ..         6.221     30.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICtAN           720.0       510.0      400.0              349.0                  553.7
POP. PER NURSISC PERSON            330.0 /h   230.9       150.0              130.3                  166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            140.0       120.0      110.0               8S.5                   120.8
URBAY                             80.0 /h   140.0       130.0 /e           109.0                  143.1
RURAL                               -.
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL NED           ..       20.5        21.6                 ..                   17.8
AVERAGE SIZ  OF HOUSLD
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0        2.8
Can                                  .         2.7        2.7
RURAL                               ..         3.2        3.0
AVERAGE NO. OF PERIS?ISJROOK
TOrAL                              2.4         2.0        1.5 
URBAN                               ..         1.9        1.5
RURAL                               ..         2.0        1.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF MZELLIGS)
TOTAL                             76.6        91.7       98.1
URLBAN..                                     96.6        ".I.
RURAL                               ..        87.4       96.9



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                          Page 2 of 5 Pages
NUNCRT                 - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA SN!!T
1iUiEI-                               REVERENcE  ROUPS (WEIGNTED AVBAGIS) L
MOST                 (NO?S RECENT CSTmZMAtE  lb
RECENTS        EA't IUROPEAN              £IWSTRIAL
196d_   19D          BtT7MTCLE      nw-N ITY ZC0"7IEB        RAJT  CCONONZZS
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDMRY:  TOTAL                    101.0        97.0        99.0                104.5                   101.3
MALE                   103.0        98.0        99.0                96.1                    103.0
FEMALE                 100.0        97.0        99.0                98.5                    102.7
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   23.0        32.0        42.0                65.2                     90.3
KALE                    21.0        26.0        33.0                 07.1                    84.6
FEIALE                  24.0        38.0        51.0                72.3                     67.8
VOCATIONAL (2 o0 SEcONR)             30.4        47.3         54.9                32.4                    17.9
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMA                               26.0       18.0         16.0                12.4                    20.2
SECONDARl                           l.0        10.0         6.0 8 k              4.9                    15.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE tS)              96.9        98.0        98.9                 99.5                    99.1
COmWTOUN
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           3.3        23.2       106.6                97.7                    367.2
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAKD POP         222.8     24.8        252.1               417.9                   1090.7
TV  CECEIVERS/THOUSANP POP           10.4       171.1       263.6                282.8                   451.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTERhST) CIRCLUATION
PER THOUSAND PPULATION             163.6      213.5       241.6 /1            359.5                    331.2
ClIM  ANNUAL ATTENDANCECAPITA        14.0         7.7         6.4                 12.                      3.6
LAM ra
TOTA.L LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          4777.0     5031.0      5214.0
FEMLAL  (PEtCENT)                  36.4        42.0        42.7                47.5                     36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              38.7        25.2        20.5                17.3                      6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 34.3        44.4        42.9                43.7                    37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                              67.6        48.7        48.7                51.0                     45.7
MALE                               63.1        58.2        57.6                56.6                     59.3
FDEALE                             33.7        39.7        40.3                46.0                     32.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDEC  RtATIO             0.7         D.7         0.7                 0.7                      0.7
IUCU DB1BUTI0U
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCME
RECEIVED Y
HICUEST 5 or HOUSEHOLDS            12.1 J5     11.53       10.67l
HIGHEST 20 OF HOUSECOLDS           34.6 f7     33.7 7I    32.3  L                ..                    43.1
LWEST 201 OFP OUSHOOLDS             9.4         9.9 7      10.8 jj               ..                      5
LOWEST 40o oP HUSEHDS              23.6 7      24.68       26.2                  ..                    16.4
ron rf  QN OO -
ESTIM      ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEV.L CUSs PER CA )
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
Um                                   ..
RURAL                                ..
ESTIMATED POP. SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOE LEVEL CZ)
URBA                                 ..N
RtRAL                                ..
. OT AVNAlaBLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averapg  for each indlcator are populatlon-weighted arithmetic  eanu. Coverage of countries aaon  the
indicatora depeada on avaiLability of data aid Ia not uniform.
/b   Unleas otharulee noted. -Date for 190r refer to aoy year betwee  1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970 betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for 'Ioet Rseac Eatieate  boc_e 1960 and 1982
lc   Ioen of reproductive age (17-49) usiag oral contraceptives; /d 1966. wae  of reproductive age team than 45 yeare;
/a 1977; If 1_oem  of reprodue i  age loes thoa 40 yearm; j  Percent of occupied dwellinga; lh 1962; /I 1979;
3 I!rcnreof income received by the reepective perceot ofihe populatlon. and data refer co7y-arr 19U. 1972 and
1977; /k 1978.
JUNEC 1984



- 23 -                                                                    ANNEX I                        pae
VIIt901'I IW4  INIl1rVI.N4                                               Page    3    of            5    pa      e
kin'.  "tlih.  .cha   4.1**14  di-  is.m   bI....    n.OIe .441d I. 1111 a14h.rtOiIt. o14 i.t*hla. of .h...4 *5** 11oo.441   h, 1..t    114 IeIl-e.si..Ii
-.n .bi. b...... or5b1. SIoa  *i1 14i414.4  15I1iI   44  1spOMM.  ool4 by9 1116.-.   .s..c.u  . 1..h. i.ail  lao..  P. .1....    14111i  .nl.i 9
a.. la.I.4.1. .       "...i IP It.  Ins.. 41t 1  11o..  aM  sfto.M,*.11.  .."..414a J.,  4a   *1*y gr-l  -05*..ae.l   It.a...I si.   t    .hyI.p. 
T05140 .F.-l. I.l..o  Xl.n   1          P11*     I  -t  ad...SIl0    e I"i .41U4     ~t 11145   I1n, suiPt £14.. .14   45   -tiE w, 44... tI".   4-  itb..4. ..-ies.S           ornai
.i1120.iI   I  It.  7.5.41.4. 44.3  4.i. It. tV1i1. or- punt.IiI  y.Ii*4.1.4  *r ih              . Arm     tar sal01 fool.,.  au .    Wqi. .14  -*.l.ri   1*              n.n'11
in    41.1.  q  'Iwi .11451411d41   41116 I44-Moo _3e           _ ..nii.  4 .4141d.514ii-1.i.. d.1,.   -        ,1*...I.tIli 41' da1.1t.                or    c  h..    to.    Motelt 1.  
M.1. A    sS. Mat. 4   vI.H iI.O  54111% 41i5.44  t4114  1-dit5 I*0                            plmi.5il11.qsiII41  ie4.40r.I  .01                 ..n.Sl    5.41.5
-14 Il1S451.                        aol Ihq.vIi SI 5*                     -II.4114                                        P4 a1444  11I d   hi saS 1.6 Wat.iIuI
(rslIsuI. - 5"A.04  .0t151.3,i.                                                                                                          ...11a   41141   uai04i   ilbtl
Niiii.1 p.0.1414  Foih -Pikiiaima* gtd    .iad   it.l  fiobtM11IS,                               ".44   41hi...                   4          -       _ - .    _
1441as49  41...4                                                                             hoa   4   .I5J            1       I                4 v..  - ft.lli   04440
3L UILILUUML   af-4-01-1-1 Mob--od --oper-111 to Pr1.I41.114 i.iai   11hd                               .           io."p.r5   4 .1.. 116 .111..0 54
5.                           CIII P34M  CapIm.!1i-Clw   19* .,           11.4111 Ct                .11nu     evils                    a.alltt.4 -  I. vit11- 1ilt    aiia    PtaI.   1.14511
lore0 'Wl  .14 141  111.                                                                            byC   44144   41i41.4ItIlnII   ..41gpitptiip  "ntIal
1:;--    -  -1.   be   I.d Beta MLa..en                                      ii5..4.Eli)  nei1i1  1.41t454.14111511  S
.14ss.5114.iitiiitltl A11 -51414P.-110il1951211W a-.pilts..#             *41.                 Iie0Ma -::5o:M*11  61 .11..I i1t5141.  boj.                     tb       - ..
1*4.44145414.-                                                                              0.I0Wen.P.=      i IaL ood- 3.1.-5  v*.t .5 aId..e..m I... 1)1411.414d
a-%.-I .1 ... 1114.0 6. kiL.1 p., ..pit., IWA. i-4ei a117i1a.W Uh, I.;Z mn..a"T 14105`
V                      - ..II WHI  bm  - ba  1 6    ,ite 1s 114. logo1. .14 1*411          ~        4
Jii1l...d.t.II~   ..6l.    ;t.s. s.9 .I.i s.le        ...I                                                                                                  ..i41dt  dsI  45   .5.Ah1.. 1114.      iyo   ... -11541  ii.
1.1   41*149(.   .1  1*1  h11             -.Was..13 AsI .    WRI11AM.- 1."I,1.5lt -I..lIli* h-P, tio...ald                                                                            A
huIUit'.k lowk!t              1   d  sl  .                                                         I%.. .&1Ia.t*r C., 41¶1 n FP-ifS.1*    a iil11114   41i
MelM." aiioiii-e" . 414.-1a    1514laii   S11101                                                    411p1i5444. lnp..Iiii.   tiitqst ...iow. 1114115*t.-.l5 *111*1.l
1*11.    iialn    a...   InMPM         411.511? -I.*l .0411.  11in              .i11*11 41p14. 141104.tiL..A" - Wbol.Maol,P
P-444   1.5 .F.1 6,4555 a4,16a11t 5 511 tn.  t.-i   1-  p4.4 ta...S1tybo                                             .   doa." opOt-'
p41*44 p11164i41.   55- 1 RILset ..5*,41115144        404oe     1 1 M 5Me  45-
P._,eeatP.,(- -..tiasbsy                as   eillil   in1adipod  W 0)11111.  5*i115
AOMSS::liL"ISItit                 *45*   .  1   ."n.6.n* It,it                                                                              1, -      ..e.ea. *.L. bas i L.t
ISiIl_   4a.t41_         441a Loom IS   1.   .cI M-ai54L  .114111                                  M:10911441  el44  1 .1151  pileai  0l.411  0  p114.1.441, a14  .. M5
iP.pi1.is.9k      1.1.0 . 5.-a  p0r.1.t151. 41. *14*isIt i..    naSl.-                                Me . . .  :15n111   1n11tl.1.     t.q11t. -  .Sopine .a4llj6*
ji.0htall 541"'41111. 1*1   Zt54141 -W   .*tf  1.5...  4114111114.11.                            *511141 140 pupil an1-.5L.. 411  1.  -141115. 1111-.4130..
1.41-b.1111. ee-.t   c11. ei.iObe. `      1 111.a  p.4t.il M   i  1         koe                      l-4145 *itPope-s.q. -       . 11  144.1 -   0111*11514. -me, 81.44   e4
ba3e  3J3'. 3.    .- 1*111         ..'s. 111411 11.  t.eLpMt.  gtn-  114 01.11.                      pinl.4  14            .I. . 110 11nl  4    114.de 11411144   lA011 n  I.ger
114i114114   n  1.1 l451..11  5..54111 154   ..1.1441*11441jt141ews t  44.L) .6111 3  441 ....               1 M41  an.p.-d11.-   1-taaabn
n.-eIl. silo 44111a.4  03.1111.1 .4511-.1tW-.11                                                                                                          t-. 1 31115   1 tloog45.01
veitn  a.ti11      = 1 b   .  i                                                               p141417 -4W1111411 110-14411*4411 t"b                 1111.4..5111
hi1.1.l.ii51t0ss1  0414  1   tiftat4sOilSa                                                        1n11w4545              S  5*4.19541. ad 51  .rl.. as 441d11
ntvs 51*9. 54414 411454110 14.41. ~~          ~               ~               ~             ~              tk C.. . todW -..
1111 to.1. t.1 -1.1t.4  11 1-41. as C     ..1  -   4-.1414  410 .5-er--1111 W.iCl ¶11 -111.11141  ins.1LotJ -  e4IS  .i 1.d  Wenu.   0v
a..t*s,1 r 144. 1470. as 14IT" ...-                                                                     n.1,51.1In.011   1..;1h5n                         .ti..i.              14
!!Ignt.141  Cinc e -1  Cf1411   . 114.  .asIa. 5-10d   14..1   45.  14(is-.1   1.11
po    .5*.10 i.e 31404144 t  l0-t   M11   590P.                                              110   ..lr   .ii.1.4nt.I.      4   n.44   i.14    nv
11I5.nCoI  .1  #1414    111-dIt    nt1.1144  1t.    Wndn*   1  .i1   11011p11tt.a4  1 55*4-0   aci.
555.4. 511i o. -t.   ss-4.as *71-                                                            ..toa.e14  t.544t  011 m  vm       mrt.   1   ein1lenot.0    1e
FiS. *114*C-51   Mn  h. -..a)-n1              10   *511* fi-t Me-0.1or4 *1. 111-                      41.44514141)111  41i.11  111.0 -1  148.1    141   .
1111  .p 14150    140    . Ol  s  54412.                                                      ....StIs  .r.-.1-- l-nnd..
CiI..14-1                                                                                l""11  M11     41415  1atnt4lmd 11ad-iI1141311010140 i114114111   .   iIEt11
P-.5*S1tos14.590   s5*  I.t.. b.I11414)putt'`Iit""mIs 5*4.-1111W44  ..t314n .eslo;..n.loa11151
las . l1nl.  (- 4e*11.14.S(1.a - aoo   b.           eI1a  .tr.1        41--d 1.41111                 -    i0 p*10  44p1141e-.21.411  6411 Tin.            
416 115111    10.111115SIC bod 1941 tao.41 .111111  isl   20*1                                     Ow  1.1115*1.115         W11 £54 aPo.t.r Y.r-Is    t. d .4011  .41al
G`   t le-t    R              -"           C..b -     ost ikb-                                           n .   .-1124  dato 11.410,  544151454411441111TV01. lrt)4   catn.a
t..t). d.nO.41-.i. I..it .1 ntlfl .40 0             wo-bpo0 11 Itlad                   n*l..15W.
itlil1..1t44  0. *1.4.4.tSILi noS .4.4 31-e11  4111144.3* IC 1144..1-t, 1     -dL.  W-1                                                    It 1
Fe n: rI.. F 4L- 14111*11   oaWSioobt11   l.  .1.1411  11                  ...11-140  41                                  It 414 `P-4141.  .1 - 114    t 11540.1111.4.. 1ni
RL:   'L.,                      19, I a--W~~ ~~~~~~~e~vtIs  1111.  44    I  44  .41
-.nulo pi.41t1i t1 11 -55ta   1. .4.51110     .10401  11114111Me l                                                           ..      i  111  ar5.  5inv .1.4.54   as 1
.;-L.t F n1.1  .1 ...)415d   1.44. M   -..,L           .4.111t 111115141    oe .4.-  - 5t#6li   I 114514. 1.441111*11 . 1111ittdq
4.11*.I                                                                                   t4" 1:.-1IPbt-itOte - 111 I.-111144  - tg1410 4.b-1.- asw 1410*   - vait41tpu.. 1
in.-W)55.5.  n         tt tpl. 444151f.l.    ...  (nmc        ..S.                     51*. 2414.2 -I 191  sa.o  It... at. 14.4  -   10   4 1111415*tt   14.
*oal*e.4 as  -h n1 .-L-..h 1.1  anus'  P   41145444 4110 I  W .4...                                 lInS   4440I104I W         11 410 111.  r.L10. -11  34145- 011 41.1. lor
0. as    , li.iet1.115   .1 5*1*54.5114. .14 .511141544 IS prn    tWea..                                       aootol-   fIL .-  -              .-,
: .t.sb .nt 5p4L1-hI  5470 as  s           p1.4..-I.lo..1o   "                                                      "       'b 0-t.                           at"            a
no8115 1t   4 sasd t el f a,. P--LIS 11i.ool O.SL dL.lsod-k*.. 4..I-                                nnl     Mvi.i  05144   1111*3   *4441  14*1111105i
-,6fi.tt01  p1.54 .L       iftlinitt1144U   *45114191.4  111.                                       .tn54t  1. 14r4.1414414  .-11  1,b..dtdm    11.41*.
aiss   .4)4.1        5*14154  18         *41          -Rot,'i   1l~    347  ai   11111       ..trI IR0I,  n.1*  411.4                m.*. pelas   ini11               1 . no
COtS  .       .    -415.i a 411 6.-r  P-st.. W4141ss       la 4.45     5*1  -1.-a10                .mo    .e.e.t   11.  *11    i  114.41
W.tIn      Wet tilas In. 55411010; 31I0  147- PIo;. ea                                         Ff1.4--t     -L444eI -1  n?.C1. 1.4.  1. ertu   41-,11 L-I..1
oaa.n        -                                                                                    4 1 1111n I  o 1. od4.,.5.iSc '.4W 1.10 f..l.14  1111111-L-1.4lntiv.I-  14
;4551'd    1440. tI Spll. It" 141 1.41                                                              11141.
11111.114.m514y4.14 30' 10*11s)      411.t  14.1   os414. 811 4111411140M   "t.-                                                   Cl-to                       t 
0*1 Pwl  (tc.*tnS041. 141  1   1ia   1...F.Oe .a m mo.  s .14? .-Id _mi1511
l.sn.1141115n11*4 not   n~~~~~~~~~11 110*  I. pr%-11I.n.                                                                 M et..  a                     t   311
1.1117na)ne11 t.4 1              11.1  ie41114       f-0 e..t411 11.  0  1
t..t 311.11 -111. 114air. 44L141. ime14  Sull  .1.111  *n.o 0.                   "11..1t                                          o.     b        -
1.411.111.1 *1. 10.04134 411~~~~~4. ben t  .s4114 e 41104.pntln-aof L.ee5*1514
W1 p1   .51.3 01   too4an.    s
Woo   ob          111411 1.11(11.11.4-fi4 - S-o11111  i...aO 1.ih     a
V-   beloe   I   oo 4  2   %MAs t4.eSJIM1.1  119401411  45444
11.to nlef11 -0.   4t.w.   1111111.1 .tttna  -v11Lmn4td.fta..ai.5.
1154)0.  t4111.   -                O.n.i               -     l      -     1I



-24 -                                4'a5M
amDO=  :ra        Di I94                                        ARM   M  w  M     (Z m         grie)
US t              _in  Z              1970-75         1974              I 3             1981
gat --t pines                 19.0            1110.0                6.2             3.2               2.1             2.4
own Dotic   _iut                   4.7             O.7                 6.9              2.2             4.2             -2.9
1ku Dounc Sad                      5.4            28.4                 10.8             5.7              3.8             6.3
bAmmCO slin                        0.7             3.7
Iltg of Gad, WS                    7.9            41.6                 9.6              6.9              5.2             6.8
1quo. of Cou, 1W!                  7.2            37.9                 7.5              3.9             -0.5             0.9
momn 4m Mm A
t3p  VaUm Mbd                      lAbOr FPc /4                      G.V.A. PA r
FtSin.       us            __ %.                                  2              us2 _  I
Apicu1t=               m7             3.3  -       7.6              1,072              21.7           3,078.0           80.9
izhmty (izu. cmm.) 40                7.8          41.5              1,9I               38.6           4,M.0            107b
Savica                293            5.7          3D.3              1,960              39.7           2,90D.0           76.4
LivlnwAtu /1          1IY.           2.0          10.6                                   I ,             *      
Th/mrm            968            18.8        IC.0.              4,960             110.0           3,806.0 2         I0.0 /2
-   -4    194            1984
onm  ktai               571.0      59.0           59.1
O0 1mg zAig.            497.9      5L.5           52.4
Oimt Smpia               73.1       7.6            6.7
cwtl  zvi ot             Sl.l       6.0            6.7
F1md A;.--. (VA)
MM. '  -D P
1978            1979              198               1981            1982             1983
( Billion rizt amta diiq ad peid )
1   d Qud_i raw                                 2                308.9            3I21              365.1            387.6          405.2
1a  Ceadit to Public Swx                        422.0            f60.0            496.3             537.1            563A           579.9
Bmk Credit tPrwata Smr                           81.6             914             107.2             119.9            133.6           154.6
(Nectm. or ii              )
mx     ad Qui  1y    Z of GOP                    45.4             45A              47A               46.8             45.7            45.2
Gel PriTe 1t (1975 - 100)                        114.1           124.2             135.6             141.8            151.5          163.3
CAr ..YriCe Udw                                   4.6              8.9              9.1               4.6              6.9             4.5
criit to glie Seroc                          16.5             9.0               7.9               8.2              4.9            2.9
Bak cmii to Piie Seta                            14.3             12.0             17.3              U.8              nA              15.7
A1 aot    d=At~    ad yaluetio dxffmi.. wich amt at allaoazd be -nta ad dwcmundmbl fIaac.xtim,. Urn, La tUU a diatnttmi intrO&AN
ido the i    raztcni of dwa on stn:twa dul in dw          . s
,'2 5h1ia  amicau.
1At qw1ic*1                                                                                                        a
ift maiLamble.                                                                                                1~myF 20, 195
L4W



-25-                                                     S of 5  p_u
u    1*815S DCWITUL 
a2 w PASU
P313    -M=  CN             1979-43)    Tad. in             Tratd in
1981       111       I93       1f1                                            mabla            Ih,4hlas
ZU. mi-  -                                                       Mn.-r  I m-
bpa.f  of Cadm                    8,36.O   9.083.0    8,912.8   8,817.0   9ada. .1.tuic -mw                    26.a      0.7      428.6      8.9
1aor  of CGd                      8,855.0  8S,D5.0    8,455.8   7,9112.0   Rw  eralsb    'mfndW
Ibi-ator Savc.        )             136.8     107.0      230.2      46.0      padta,  *                       873.1     23.2   1,658.3      36A
ft _ meC q. (daicit - -)            175.8     615.0      UIz      i90 w     IdOammy, tm mt  mpai.
od  epixa.  _W               1,653.8     43.9      406.3     12.6
lztmut Im I     (MO)             -I,120.2    4f2.0      -45.5    -7t5.         ifattig   inwe                 655.8     17A      679.1      1U.l
~1 Id'   _lc                          ..        ..         ..        ..    Aritdltaxl  _                      556.9      14.8   1 4.9.7     30.0
o  b_eFacta.."rem.(god                                               Socol                                  3.766.4   1CD    4;al6.8   W0.0
tlt T     cfu                        67.2      63.0       5S.3       i8.0
slam Om Owze            n hmat     -57J.3                 78.2      22W.0   iMwL OM, = Q   3D. 198L
us$ Din
lbs.... aid 1wg-Im CO311                                                    Public dabr, incl. iiin!mtNi                                    7.8
Amu A                           -13D      -180         -70.0    -Ul.0      (of .d : cantible anr.y)                                     (6.8)
Liabilf                         1.llS       367        497A      S.0I   Ib.'uu_  ptiva debt
Tnflm                        (I.M5)   (1,.27)    (1.769.2)   (    1       mci aatiti   ad didjumo                                      7.8
outna                         (9C6)    (-W)   C-I,271.8)   ()
s!e1-1h DpiE1                                                              l  mzumm mUKr  
A. /A                            -a7        -33       -276.7    -14J.0                                                                    2
LiilZi  /2                       622      -966         650.8    -33
1lic ddc, iel. .mftd                                          25.0
rSm  it   a.n.... /3                 ..       235        352       436         N--prnid ptivA debat
1_use in fiue_)(-,n=M )             616      11    -1,231.7    -6U                 T o5a0
-     r EIK Da   Iamnc (CJa     1985) OISn. us):
Da.Nia 1964 (W oaf)
13  100-51.197Fta
ft. 1.0 - 5L. 013i5
M  Lal - SLO0195                                                                                                                            MtD  
Mgatadizg ad disbum.l                               1M85.
M  (Thdito  Uaiimbm*1                              364.6          _
F  10 - 8L.082                                                          Qtstmdi   . btl. ruzlibizu                         52.
Al _A.-..aMv    uS; MatlYy  c     finacia4.
73 abn at      aDr
7  Ratio of tat  debt amice an Nik. ad la-a   de  to Ca-I                of god ad a.ziw. Mu debt              ratio of cowrtble urac debt
to eutt  of lwod   mzic. in          trible cw y _  61L
Not applicable.
.. NmihI.
r        oM
Fdmaamy 2D. 1985



- 26 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLrC
Statment of Bank Loans '
(as of September 30, 1984)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                             (less cancelations)
Number      Year        Borrower        Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU     1983        NBE H"       Grain Storage & ,ech    130.4         70.4
2317-HU     1983        HPR ''       Energy Conservation       109.0      103.3
B2-EU       1983        NBH          Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation              30.0          -
B3-HU       1983        NBE          Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation               8.8 $        -
2397-HU     1984        NBE          Industrial Export &
Restructuring            110.0      104.7
2398-HU     1984        OKGT 4'      Oil and Gas Dev.           90.0       89.8
B8-HU       1985        NBR          (Industrial Export & )
(Restructuring        )   35.0          -
(                    )
B9-RU       1985        NBE          (Petroleum            )    12.2 *'      -
Total                                 525.4       368.2
of which has been paid
Total now held by Bank                525.4
Total undisbursed                                 368.2
a/  The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, wh1ch is updated tvice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
bJ  National Bank of Hungary.
c/  Hungarian People's Republic.
d/  Natural Oil and Gas Trust.
e/  USS equivalent of Japanese Yen Loan of Y2.1 biLlion.
fJ  USS equivalent of Japanese Yen Loan of Y3 billion.



- 27 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project   5 months (April 1984 to
15 August 1984)
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project            Ministry of Industry and
National Bank of Hungary
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank           April 1984
(d) Date of first mission to consider
the project                                      April 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission           September 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations               February 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                    June 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
1.   Special Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) The execution of subsidiary and sub-loan agreements between the
Borrower, the five principal Project Beneficiaries, the State
Development Bank and the Guarantor (para. 60);
(b)  The establishment of a Project Coordinating Office in the Ministry
of Industry (para. 62).
2.   Special Conditions of Disbursement would include the execution of
sub-loan agreements between the Borrower and the remaining six Project
Beneficiaries (para 60).
3.   Other measures to be taken by the Borrower and the Beneficiaries include:
(a) To ensure that sub-loans would be made available to finance
pre-marketing expenses for a limited number of pharmaceutical
products in selected OECD countries on terms acceptable to the Bank
(para. 44).



- 28 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  To ensure that interest rates on sub-loans would be at least equal
to the Bank rate plus a 302 markup to cover its costs and the
foreign exchange risk (para. 60).
(c) To ensure that the six principal sub-borrowers would maintain at all
times a debt-service ratio of not less than 1.3, a debt-equity ratio
of not more than 55 to 45, and a current ratio of not less than 1.3
(para. 60).
(d)  To ensure that recommendations arising from environmental hazard
studies of two sub-projects would be implemented not later than the
start-up of these sub-projects (para. 67).
3.   Other measures to be taken by the Guarantor include:
(a) To establish a commission to review procedures for identifying
obsolescent drugs, removing such drugs from the compulsory
production list, and for compensating manufacturers for the losses,
if any, incurred in the production of obsolescent drugs. The
Commission would report by December 1985 and revisions to the
procedures, if any, would be introduced no later than January 1987
(para. 53).
(b) To introduce revised air pollution regulations and provide adequate
resources for their enforcement in respect of the project (para. 67).
(c) To provide or cause to be provided facilities, satisfactory to the
Bank, to handle the organic waste from industries in the
north-eastern part of Hungary, to be completed by end January 1989
(para. 67).



HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
Location of Production Plants
Motorway                                CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Mait  roadsEA
Railroads
Canals
Rivers
KILOMETERS 0    10  20  Jo  40   5n   O   ?0 fn                   Notional capisaI
MILES 0      10      20     30      J0      50         ©     Megyc capitals
-. *-Megye (county) boundories
-  *-Internotional hroundories                                      1
-r                   f ?-\E                    uJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p it(114tiontli 111.111t.  .0-\K
AUSTRIA                                                  0   C *   ip.i,,is li.iillLitr
AAMsonrnogynro,,                              ,v
;f;N<S~~~~ Sa
?.9~~~~~~~ -tS                                   -/*                                  (   G
S       5t~$,,or'~gGoe r                                                                    n
I-                                                                                        \   Duuivs '(v-ST
Szombtah y                              Ozk   ..   ,I  C 
V- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t ./ . -- *- -- Kaposvor ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ki:  /(// -kunht' -
<      2                         , t        Mohoeszpr im              J
&p Juv Ir a          DrbS SreO                                          rnr
.(Za-'            .__J.r         Dun0told.   or r6r;ersraruortt  '"~N
_  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.b
46~~~~~~~~~~~Kuhl
A.                  Kuposv6r~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                              -knr



IBRD 18757R
-. A                                                                                                                  Ulg*ad          U. S. S  R.
_                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                       I
7 iskolc~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~*alrlauhI
E --J-                                                                gy ;o                                      Z/uv;   v) ROI\   
A  \  Tv               { >f       PuspoElNeden    _     
oIg6. rt -rjl                                                                 f     o    l Makl  too                   ocaltdi,ot kfovcFnP
A_        0~~~~~~~fl                                        0Goa
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q   O pO/Crt onz R.chler -WVvn e Inc..ar 
pusp   [                                         O  Chano.n -d,n Inarn.1.
4, ~sleernet  o'   <  '   -   '^Ol    ~   <         -|                  )        </'                         (0Val - LP,OSd FWuIaI,Pfls
J  \i   .9*8q-    J  >   <            >>-B#Iu,e                2                               4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' jEgVl - Vrl.Ie..a.y P.ewda'lofls
,- KiSlaunfebg7ylznro n )                                                                                   0 t - -   Rh() Bocal . WlasIC -l
Jz    t\)   ^2  \   .   ,,            \        { ;oAtourr                                t3 R~~~~~~~~leOnas Dagncdlc Tffs
\o o(5f  N m..och,o.oatet.c Ac,a
v   )   I       /                               \                                               i'f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C Chm..o-   sFe-erabo.
0   \   L/'    J    - t                            \  *                                          2.sfw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- N,t,ovnn'a  cr E .CP.aflQ  R.s.n%
kV4 Ch,.o. SACoa I.Qor Plan
....n.bo',ca. %d   Th.i.,e                                                                                                ROM^ANIA            <A
kemit  C  -
bwx YGwAI                                                     B,oga. -YU.-O,;
\~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-.                                                      )  BULGARIA!
_ _ td ua,**s stair an*mire~' hr WIh con~ft~t.l0r ol -                                                                  Ac '                        a
_na an.u of Ths IItd7 Ba,* and II hfa'nat.o,, a5f
used and II. bmaanes sIan on OWS map do nof                  _            _                                                        a -g              Te
tlhehf:efo  -    r              I                                                     2   'o      :  t       ,f>._  2           _  r:~ro A,o
I a, rsn2nt or accpt anof Of S booadcnas                                                                             A.;
20                                    j                                           ' ;ITALY ,,                         Pwrn,,o4sTURKEY
MARCH 1 985






