Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12844
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINE CHEKICALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2511-HU)
MARCH 14, 1994
Industry and Finance Division
Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US Dollar Equivalents
(Forints per US$)
Average Annual
1985         50.1
1986         45.8
1987         47.0
1988         50.4
1989         59.1
1990         63.2
1991         74.7
1992         79.0
ABBREVIATIONS
CC           -      Convertible Currency
CMEA         -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
FRR          -      Financial Rate of Return
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GMP          -      Good Manufacturing Practice
MDI          -      Methyl Diphenyl Diisocyanate
MIT          -      Ministry of Industry and Trade
NBH          -      National Bank of Hungary
OECD         -      Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development
PCO          -      Project Coordination Office
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
USSR         -      Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
SAE          -      State Administered Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Hungary
Fine Chemicals Proiect (Loan 2511-HU1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Hungary - Fine Chemicals Project (Loan 251 1-HU)
prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. Part II, contributed by the Borrower, offers a
complete and accurate history of the project.
The objective of the project was to accelerate the reorientation of the Hungarian fine chemical
industry towards products based on Research and Development (R&D) and specialty products, which are
a source of foreign currency earnings. The objective was to be achieved through (i) financing a large
number of pre-identified investments; (ii) strengthening R&D institutions; (iii) product testing and
registration abroad; (iv) technical assistance; (v) environment protection investment. The project was
successfully implemented, although there were delays and cost overruns. In many cases, rates of return
are good, while generally lower than estimated, due mainly to economic difficulties experienced by the
former USSR which was a substantial export market. Moreover, the project helped enterprises in the
subsector to compete in the western markets.
Most subprojects have remained economically viable after the radical political and economical
changes that occurred in former CMEA countries. Although Hungarian fine chemicals enterprises have
reoriented their marketing to the West, they are well placed to reestablish trade with CIS and other Eastern
European countries. The project experience shows that well focussed restructuring programs can have
major benefits in helping enhance competitiveness in State-Owned Enterprises, provided that supporting
enabling factors exist concurrently, that assumes enterprises are independent, profit oriented and have some
exposure to competition.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional
development impact as substantial.
The PCR provides a frank account of project outcome.
This the first major pharmaceutical industry project in the Bank. An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document bas  restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the perfornmance of their official duties. Its contents
nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
(Loan 2511-HU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .............                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary .............                                                             ii
PART I   LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
A. Project Identity.                                                                  1
B. Objectives .1
C. Background.C                                                                       2
D.  Project Design & Organization.                                                    3
E. Implementation.                                                                    5
F. Project Results.                                                                   6
G. Bank Perfoancer.                                                                   8
H. Borrower Peformance.                                                               8
I.  Project Sustainability.                                                           9
J.  Findings & Lessons Learned.                                                       9
PART II  LOAN REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .11
A.  Project Design & Organization .11
B. Project Implementation .11
C. Project Results .13
D. Project Sustainability .17
PART III BASIC DATA SHEET .18
1. Related Bank Loans .18
2. Project Timetable .18
3. Loan Disbursement .19
4.     Subproject Costs, Fixed Assets & Working Capital .20
5. Project Financing .22
6.     Financial & Economic Rates of Return on Subprojects .23
7. Status of Covenants .23
8.  Bank Manpower Employed on Project .26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|






_j-
HUNGARY - FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
(Loan 2511-HU)
PROJECT COMPLEIONR
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fine Chemicals Project in Hungary, for
which Loan 2511-HU in the amount of US$73 million was approved on April 2, 1985. The project was
also cofinanced under a B loan. The A loan was closed on December 31 1990, six months later than
originally planned. At that time the A and B loans were reallocated in order to cover all outstanding
requirements under the B loan which had no closing date. The A loan was thus fully disbursed by June
1990.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the staff of the Industry and Finance Division, Technical
Department, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and  o) and the Borrower and revised
by the Country Operations Division, Central Europe Department.
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the Project
in December 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
consultants' reports; internal Bank memoranda and on personal consultation between Bank staff and their
Hungarian counterparts.



-ii-
HUNGARY - FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
(Loan 2511-HU)
PROJECT COMPLMFION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)    The objective of the project was to accelerate the implementation of a strategy for reorienting the
Hungarian chemical industry towards Research and Development(R&D)-based fine and speciality
chemicals with good potential for increased convertible currency earnings and savings. This objective
was to be achieved through the following five major complementary components:
(a)   funding of priority investments in the fine chemicals industry which had been identified
during the review of the investment programs of all chemical enterprises, carried out as
part of the Chemical Sector Review (November 1984). These production investments
consisted of (i) upgrading manufacturing facilities of the pharmaceutical industry to
internationally acceptable standards, in order to avoid loss of exports which would
otherwise occur; and (ii) initiating, expanding and modernizing the production of
pharmaceuticals, MDI-based polyurethane systems and other fine and speciality chemicals
and their intermediates for export generation and/or import substitution;
(b)   increasing the capacity and upgrading the facilities of key R&D organizations so that they
could perform a wider range of the required tests for the companies and according to
internationally acceptable standards;
(c)   funding clinical trials and registration expenses in selected OECD countries so that the
pharmaceutical industry could attempt on a pilot basis to penetrate these potentially large
and more secure markets with formulations sold under its own brand names;
(d)    providing consultancy services to: (i) assist the pharmaceutical industry in preparing a
detailed marketing strategy for the above pilot component; (ii) assist BORSODCHEM
(formerly called BVK) in developing the details of its marketing plans for the sale of
polyurethane systems; (iii) provide study tours for 10 top managers of selected companies
and training in Hungary for the staff of all chemical companies in strategic planning; and
(iv) carry out studies to help identify further prospects for development in the chemical
industry after 1988, and prepare a restructuring program for the fertilizer industry;
(e)    constructing a hazardous waste incinerator at the GEDEON RICHTER Dorog plant in
Western Hungary.
(ii)   It was expected that the project would be implemented over a period of four-and-a-half years and
would be completed by June 1989.



-iii-
Project Design
(iii). At the design stage of the Project, it was apparent to Bank Staff that the major potential for
growth in the chemical industry was in the area of high value fine chemicals, and within this group,
pharmaceuticals offered the most attractive possibilities. Much thought was given to determining those
points where Bank intervention (in the form of support for investment and training) would have the
maximum beneficial effect. Since total Bank funds available for the project were constrained, priority
was given to investments in the pharmaceuticals and plant protection chemicals subsectors. Projects in
these fields in six companies were proposed for inclusion in the Project. In retrospect, it appears that
the project was overly ambitious in dealing directly with such a large number of beneficiaries and an even
larger number of subprojects. Although a number of the subprojects were of a size and complexity that
warranted Bank appraisal, other subprojects that were not so complex, nor well advanced in preparation,
might have been handled more effectively at the time through the Department of International Institution
Development of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Implementation Experience
(iv)   Considerable delays and overruns were experienced during implementation. The main reasons
for the delays were; (a) inexperience with Bank procurement procedures; (b) change in the scope of some
subprojects; (c) changes in plant design and in Hungarian design procedures; (d) inexperience in the
newly established Project Coordination Office (PCO); (e) initial unwillingness of some participating
companies to work with the PCO; (f) slow performance of local suppliers, in part due to delays in the
granting of import licenses for raw materials; (g) inability of local fabricators to meet the higher quality
requirements demanded for buildings and equipment to meet GMP standards; (h) in the case of the MDI
plant, protracted delays during negotiations for process licenses with the Japanese licensor who adopted
a restrictive approach to issues of marketing limitations; (i) in the case of the NITROKEMIA ion
exchange project, a radical redesign and relocation of the project became necessary because of the
collapse of the 'raw material for finished product' barter scheme which had been arranged between the
Governments of Hungary and the USSR; (j) in the case of the hazardous wastes incinerator at Dorog,
opposition from the local population led to delays in the implementation of this component; (k) CAOLA's
sulphonation facility failed its acceptance tests and was not operated till 1991 when the company made
appropriate modification of the equipment to enable profitable commercial operation. The case has been
the subject of prolonged arbitration, with no satisfactory outcome to date.
(v)    Cost overruns were in a few cases due to inadequate estimates of capital cost at the time of
appraisal. For most subprojects, however, overruns were due to the continuing devaluation of the forint
against convertible currencies, a significant fall in the value of the US$ against the Japanese yen and the
West German mark, large increases in domestic interest rates, the introduction of various taxes on
investment and the deregulation of building prices during the implementation period.
Results
(vi)   The subprojects started to come into production at the time when efforts to reform the CMEA
system by moving from the transferable rouble to settlement in US$ were introduced. This had an
immediate negative effect on export performance which was subsequently exacerbated by the final
collapse of the CMEA system. BORSODCHEM was the most affected by these events since the licensing



-iv-
agreements with the Japanese technology holder for the MDI Plant precluded any Western sales until four
years after start-up.
(vii)   Overall, the rates of return achieved on virtually all of the pharmaceutical projects are good,
while generally lower than estimated at appraisal, due mainly to the economic difficulties experienced by
the former USSR, which had provided a major export market for Hungarian finished pharmaceuticals.
The company managements have stated that, in the light of the collapse of CMEA markets and the move
towards a free market economy in Hungary, it is doubtful whether the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry
could have survived without these projects. One of the companies is now privatized. The other
enterprises have been corporatized, and all have managed to establish satisfactory domestic and export
markets for their products. The hazardous wastes incinerator at Dorog is running well
(viii)  Serious difficulties have however been encountered by four of the subprojects, mainly in the
chemical subsector: (i) Only part of NITROKEMIA's ion exchange resin facilities have been completed
due to changes in the situation as regards markets, raw material supplies and technology; (ii) CAOLA's
sulphonation plant (for detergent intermediates) has failed to pass its acceptance tests and is the subject
of arbitration, but the plant has been in commercial operation since 1991 after appropriate modification
of the plant;(iii) BORSODCHEM's sales of MDI were restricted, under the terms of the process licensing
agreement, to CMEA markets (which have virtually completely collapsed) for the first four years of
operation; (iv) for market reasons, the purpose of NEVIKI's toxicological laboratory was switched during
implementation from screening new pesticides to screening pharmaceuticals and is now operating and
meeting the OECD GLP standards although not yet making a profit.
Stistainability
(ix)   The project was conceived and implemented for the most part while the Hungarian economy was
to a large extent centrally directed. Nevertheless, even under the radical economic and political changes
which have taken place in the early 1990's towards a market economy, most of the project components
have remained economically viable. As far as the participating pharmaceutical companies are concerned,
because of their relatively cheap and highly productive scientific manpower, their R&D facilities have
produced a number of interesting new pharmaceuticals at relatively low cost. All of the pharmaceutical
companies, and some of the chemical operations, have drawn considerable interest from Western
companies. The strategy of the pharmaceutical companies has been to seek foreign ownership that would
preserve and enhance the companies R&D capability, and not to regulate the company to merely a
production unit of the foreign owners. CHINOIN has been successful in this strategy, but so far the other
companies remain wholly Hungarian, although many of them have joint ventures with Western companies
for particular product lines. All these companies have succeeded in overcoming the crisis caused by the
collapse of the CMEA markets and are now operating profitably. The sustainability of these operations
is therefore not in doubt.
(x)    Apart from NEVIKI, which is bankrupt, the sustainability of the other projects and companies
is uncertain, since the ultimate effect of free market competition, and the collapse of the CMEA markets,
on their operations is not yet clear. CAOLA has preferred to take independent steps to get the
sulphonation plant to work rather than awaiting the outcome of arbitration. The company tried to attract
a foreign partner but finally has been privatized by a local investor. The long term sustainability of the
company seems promising. In spite of the current difficult financial situation in which BORSODCHEM
finds itself, the company is probably sustainable, as is the MDI unit when the initial market constraints
insisted upon by the process vendors no longer operate.  It is the intention to privatize smaller, viable



parts of BORSODCHEM, rather than the company as a whole; this process is already under way. The
issue of environmental pollution is critical for NITROKEMIA and is aggravated by the geographical
location of the company; and expensive steps will have to be taken if the company is to conform to the
new Hungarian environmental standards; however, if the company can successfully address this issue,
both the project financed under this loan, as well as most of the other operations of the company, should
be sustainable.
(xi)   All the companies which participated in the project were traditional suppliers to the former
CMEA; although they have now reoriented their marketing to the West, nevertheless they are well poised
to re-establish trade with the CIS and other Eastern European countries.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(xii)   Although some subprojects have not been successful, the project demonstrated that it was possible
to carry out what was essentially a restructuring exercise for the major part of an important state-owned
subsector; the restructuring, for several of the companies involved, has strengthened their abilities to
operate in a market environment and by orienting their marketing strategy towards western markets has
allowed them to survive the loss of traditional markets. Some of these companies have thus been able
to negotiate meaningfully with potential foreign investors. The companies that have best survived the
transition to a market economy are those which were able to better adjust their operations to compete
effectively in Western markets - mostly the pharmaceutical enterprises - and those that have fared less
favorably are mostly in the chemical sector. These companies have had problems competing effectively
in Western markets.
(xiii) During the period of transition in Hungary from a centrally planned to a market economy, this
project too suffered the same systemic (e.g. high interest rates, tight credit conditions, etc.) and more
general (e.g. conditions of eligibility, etc.) problems as the other industry projects in the portfolio. The
experience under the project demonstrate, the need to have in place satisfactory arrangements to ensure
that systemic and more general issues affecting the sector as a whole are adequately reflected in project
supervision and monitoring. In this respect, the supervision arrangements for this project, under which
there was little direct involvement in project supervision by the country operations division, may have
permitted in these aspects receiving less attention under this project than other projects that form a part
of the country operations division's industry portfolio.






-1-
PART I: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
(Loan 2511-HU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NOTE
1.     The Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) commissioned Econoconsult, a Hungarian consulting
company to obtain from the individual companies the necessary data for the calculation of the economic
and financial rates of return which appear in Part III of this report. In preparing their report, the
consultants, working closely with the MIT, also produced a comprehensive and accurate analysis of the
history of the project, using as a model, the 'Part I' of an earlier PCR. This is reproduced here as Part
II, which is, of course, usually prepared by the Borrower. Rather than repeat MIT's findings, Bank staff
have used Part I to highlight the main issues, to provide additional commentary on the aims of the project
from the Bank's point of view and to analyze the extent to which these aims have been achieved in the
light of the radically changed political circumstances now existing.
A. Project Identty
Project Name:       Fine Chemicals Project
Loan Number:        2511-HU
RVP Unit:           ECA
Country:            Hungary
Sector:             Industry
Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1985
Loan Amount:
'A' Loan     US$73 million
'B' Loan     US$6 million and Yen 3.5 billion
B. Objectves
2.    The objective of the project was to accelerate the implementation of a strategy for reorienting the
Hungarian chemical industry towards Research and Development(R&D)-based fine and speciality



-2-
chemicals with good potential for increased convertible currency earnings and savings. This objective
was to be achieved through the following five major complementary components:
(a)   funding of priority investments in the fine chemicals industry which had been identified
during the review of the investment programs of all chemical enterprises, carried out as
part of the Chemical Sector Review (November 1984). These production investments
consisted of (i) upgrading manufacturing facilities of the pharmaceutical industry to
internationally acceptable standards, in order to avoid loss of exports which would
otherwise occur; and (ii) initiating, expanding and modernizing the production of
pharmaceuticals, MDI-based polyurethane systems and other fine and speciality chemicals
and their intermediates for export generation and/or import substitution;
(b)   increasing the capacity and upgrading the facilities of key R&D organizations so that they
could perform a wider range of the required tests for the companies and according to
internationally acceptable standards;
(c)   funding clinical trials and registration expenses in selected OECD countries so that the
pharmaceutical industry could attempt on a pilot basis to penetrate these potentially large
and more secure markets with formulations sold under its own brand names;
(d)    providing consultancy services to: (i) assist the pharmaceutical industry in preparing a
detailed marketing strategy for the above pilot component; (ii) assist BORSODCHEM in
developing the details of its marketing plans for the sale of polyurethane systems; (iii)
provide study tours for 10 top managers of selected companies and training in Hungary
for the staff of all chemical companies in strategic planning; (iv) carry out hazard and
operability studies on two of the subprojects; and (v) carry out studies to help identify
further prospects for development in the chemical industry after 1988, and prepare a
restructuring program for the fertilizer industry.
(e)    constructing a hazardous waste incinerator at the GEDEON RICHTER Dorog plant in
Western Hungary.
3.    It was expected that the project would be implemented over a period of four-and-a-half years and
would be completed by June 1989.
C. Background
4.    The Country Industrial Sector Strategy Paper (Report No. 4778-HU of January 1984) had
identified the chemical subsector as a key subsector which had grown rapidly within the industrial sector
and which exhibited clear growth potential with good prospects for exports and import substitution. As
a follow up, a mission visited Hungary in April/May 1984 (when preparatory work was started on the
next five-year plan (1986-1990) and carried out a Chemical Sector Review, which was later issued as a
report (No. 5330-HU of November 9,1984). This report reviewed the status of the industry, identified
its development potential and major constraints and defined the rationale for Bank assistance. The
discussions with the review mission contributed to the definition of future strategy in the chemical
subsector and helped to establish priorities for funding during the 1986-1990 plan period.



-3-
5.    The review confirmed that, beyond plant capacities required to meet domestic demand, Hungary
held no medium- or long-term advantage in capital-intensive branches of the chemical industry (such as
petrochemicals, fertilizers and oil refining). It was recommended that the industry should focus on
developing higher value downstream chemicals. In the course of the review, key investments in the
chemical subsector were identified and prioritized; a selection was made of these investments to be
financed through various projects in the lending pipeline. Certain branches of the fertilizer industry were
earmarked for rehabilitation; it was also recommended that studies be carried out to identify further
prospects for development in those industries producing fertilizers, basic petrochemicals, fine chemical
intermediates, detergents, paints and varnishes, and drug and plant protection intermediates.
6.    It was recommended that the Bank should seek to support the proposed strategy through a
continuous dialogue backed by a series of operations in the subsector including: (i) this Fine Chemicals
project, which would accelerate the reorientation of the chemical industry towards higher value-added
products; support associated R&D activities; and strengthen chemical enterprises' strategic planning and
marketing orientation; (ii) a possible Fertilizer Restructuring Project which would address the questions
of optimal size, location and technology of the fertilizer industry as well as distribution aspects; (iii) the
Industrial Restructuring Program, which included a special subprogram addressing development
bottlenecks in the plastics processing industry; (iv) a further industrial energy savings project which
would, inter alia, support energy conservation efforts in the chemical industry.
D. Project Design and Organization
7.    At the design stage of the Project, it was apparent to Bank Staff that the major potential for
growth in the chemical industry was in the area of high value fine chemicals, and within this group,
pharmaceuticals offered the most attractive possibilities. Much thought was given to determining those
points where Bank intervention (in the form of support for investment and training) would have the
maximum beneficial effect. Since total Bank funds available for the project were constrained, priority
was given to investments in the pharmaceuticals and plant protection chemicals subsectors. Projects in
these fields in six companies were proposed for inclusion in the Project. In retrospect, it appears that the
project was overly ambitious in dealing directly with such a large number of beneficiaries and an even
larger number of subprojects. Although a number of the subprojects were of a size and complexity that
warranted Bank appraisal, other subprojects that were not so complex, nor well advanced in preparation,
might have been handled more effectively at that time through the Department of International Institution
Development of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH). The issues encountered in developing a strategy
for the pharmaceuticals subsector, which formed the core of the project are highlighted below.
Chemical Industry Projects
8.    Three other production companies were proposed for inclusion in the Project, representing a very
considerable whittling down of a preliminary "wish list" which had been submitted by the Hungarian
counterparts. (It was considered essential that there be maximum cooperation between the Hungarian
authorities and Bank staff; consequently, the whittling down process was a joint operation carried out
mainly while the mnission was in the field, using FRRs and ERRs as the main criteria for selection). These
other projects were (i) a project at a diversified chemical company (NITROKEMIA, which was already
participating in the Project with a plant protection chemical intermediate {Monochloracetic acid}) to
produce ion exchange resins for water purification; (ii) a sulfonation plant to produce detergent
intermediates at CAOLA, a leading detergent manufacturer; and (iii) a plant at BORSODCHEM, the
largest Hungarian heavy chemical manufacturer, to produce Methyl Diphenyl Diisocyanate (MDI) and



-4-
MDI-based polyurethane systems. As will be seen, these three projects, for different reasons, came to
grief.
9.     Support was also given for the expansion of capacity for producing two plant protection
intermediates and finished products. As further support for this important branch of the chemical industry,
a toxicological screening laboratory was established at NEVIKI, a Government owned R&D institute since
it was planned that a considerable number of new pesticides would be developed by the local industry in
the ensuing decade.
10.   Formerly, a number of hazardous organic residues from effluent treatment plants in the
pharmaceutical enterprises had to be disposed of in land fills, which could lead to pollution of ground
water supplies. To help alleviate this problem, a hazardous waste incinerator was erected at the GEDEON
RICHTER plant at Dorog, which was to process wastes from the Budapest area and Western Hungary..
11.   In order to enhance the probability of the sustainability of both the individual projects and the
industry as a whole, a series of development studies were financed, aimed at laying down the future
investment and restructuring strategies for other subsectors of the chemical industry. Marketing studies
were also commissioned and training in strategic planning was given to senior management throughout
the industry.
The Pharmaceuticals Component
12.   At the time of appraisal. the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry was the ninth largest exporter
of pharmaceuticals, with a history going back more than 100 years. The main reasons for the success
of the industry were (i) large annual expenditures by the enterprises and the Government in R&D; (ii)
the six pharmaceutical companies were organized in a manufacturers' association which determined the
allocation of R&D funds among the companies and research institutes, between basic research and process
development, while encouraging competition between the companies in the development of new processes
and/or products; (iii) the low salaries paid to Hungarian scientists and technicians (about 10% of West
German rates) together with their relatively high productivity led to very much lower R&D costs,
particularly for new products, than in industrialized countries; (iv) the industry had established its own
export marketing organization, MEDIMPEX, which had become the export marketing arm of the
companies themselves; (v) although the companies were state-owned enterprises, and under obligation
to provide pharmaceuticals to the Hungarian Health Service at discounted prices, nevertheless the
company managements were fiercely independent, competitive and profit oriented. An illustration of this
was the issue of obsolete drugs. The Ministry of Health placed annual orders on the companies for drugs
to be supplied to the Health service. These requirements included a large number of obsolete drugs
demanded in small quantities by the older doctors who had been prescribing them for many years. The
enterprises wished to replace them with more modern and efficient pharmaceuticals on which they could
make a reasonable profit. During appraisal, the enterprises enlisted the aid of the appraisal mission to
persuade the Ministry to agree to the establishment of a 'deregistration committee' which would examine
the requests of the industry to remove such obsolete drugs from the pharmacopoeia and replace them by
more modern and effective drugs. The committee was still in existence at loan closing; in its first two
years, more than twenty drugs were eliminated from the registry. In summary, the industry's success
could be attributed to the rationalization of all stages of R&D while maintaining competition on product
and process research, as well the existence of strongly profit-motivated managements.



-5-
13.   The industry exported about half of its output; about 60% of exports were to the Soviet Bloc
(mainly finished pharmaceutical formulations). Of the 40 % sales to convertible currency (cc) areas, about
70 % were of bulk active ingredients. Finished formulations (which give a much higher price return) were
exported only to developing countries, and consisted entirely of generic products. While it appeared that
there was still scope in the short term for increasing exports of standard and bulk drugs, in the longer
term these markets were risky because: (i) since they are governed exclusively by price competition (as
long as the products meet acceptable quality standards), new low-cost producers (who might well be a
newly established domestic industry in the larger developing countries) would challenge Hungary's
position; (ii) developing countries did not potentially represent markets with the potential for steady and
significant growth of Hungarian pharmaceutical sales; (iii) two thirds of the world pharmaceutical markets
were in the industrialized countries which were also virtually the only markets for innovative products.
However, these markets were effectively barred to the Hungarian industry even for generic formulations
because its tabletting and liquid formulation facilities did not meet, on any of its plants, international
levels of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), without which Western Europe, USA and Japan would
not permit the import of pharmaceutical formulations manufactured on such facilities.
14.   Prior to the Project, for the exploitation of an innovative Hungarian active ingredient, the
enterprise would enter into a royalty agreement with a foreign partner (usually a multinational), which
paid for the clinical trials in its home country and other markets where it would be given exclusive
marketing rights to register and market the product under its own brand name, thus securing the lion's
share of the profits. The Hungarian companies thus were precluded from generating enough foreign
exchange on earlier innovations in order to finance clinical trials abroad on new products; these new
products had therefore to be licensed to foreign partners, and the vicious circle was repeated.
15.   The strategy formulated by the Bank to assist the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry was to
provide support for (i) establishment of modern formulation facilities to enable the export of finished
pbarmaceutical products into high priced markets, including Western Europe, Japan and the U.S.A.: (ii)
carrying out premarketing clinical trials on Hungarian-developed new pharmaceuticals, as a first step to
establishing marketing operations in Western Europe for new products and generic formulations; (iii)
expanding the production capacity for diagnostic tests. (iv) the provision of modern analytical equipment
to improve the performance of the companies' R&D departments; and (v) increasing the independence
from  Government control of the production, pricing and marketing policies  of the Hungarian
pharmaceutical companies. At that time, neither the Hungarian authorities nor Bank staff foresaw that
political and economic upheavals would occur so rapidly in the Communist Bloc, and that a major part
of the industry's traditional markets would disappear virtually overnight.
E. Implementation
16.   Considerable delays and overruns were experienced during implementation. The main reasons
for the delays were; (a) inexperience with Bank procurement procedures; (b) change in the scope of some
subprojects; (c) changes in plant design and in Hungarian design procedures; (d) inexperience in the
newly established Project Coordination Office (PCO); (e) initial unwillingness of some participating
companies to work with the PCO; (f) slow performance of local suppliers, in part due to delays in the
granting of import licenses for raw materials; (g) inability of local fabricators to meet the higher quality
requirements demanded for buildings and equipment to meet GMP standards; (h) in the case of the MD]
plant, protracted delays during negotiations for process licenses with the Japanese licensor who adopted
a restrictive approach to issues of marketing limitations; (i) in the case of the NITROKEMIA ion
exchange project, a radical redesign and relocation of the project became necessary because of the



-6-
collapse of the 'raw material for finished product' barter scheme which had been arranged between the
Governments of Hungary and the USSR; (j) in the case of the hazardous wastes incinerator at Dorog,
opposition from the local population led to delays in the implementation of this component; (k) CAOLA's
sulphonation facility failed its acceptance tests and was not operated until 1991 when the company made
appropriate modification of the equipment to enable profitable commercial operation. The case has been
the subject of prolonged arbitration, with no satisfactory outcome to date.
17.   Cost overruns were in a few cases due to inadequate estimates of capital cost at the time of
appraisal. For most subprojects, however, overruns were due to the continuing devaluation of the forint
against convertible currencies, a significant fall in the value of the US$ against the Japanese yen and the
West German mark, large increases in domestic interest rates, the introduction of various taxes on
investment and the deregulation of building prices during the implementation period.
F. Project Results
(a) Investment Projects
18.   With the collapse of the CMEA markets, which accounted for upwards of one third of
pharmaceutical sales, the four major pharmaceutical companies had to find outlets for their finished
formulations in convertible currency areas. Because of the Bank supported investments in new products
plants and in formulation units meeting international GMP standards, (as well as management training
courses in strategic planning), these companies succeeded to a large extent in finding such markets to
compensate for the loss of CMEA business. As a consequence, the actual rates of return on most of these
subprojects, while lower than the rates envisaged at appraisal, remained at attractive levels. The
exceptions were four subprojects - BIOGAL's Plasters and Synthesis plants and CHINOIN's Injections
Unit and Pyrethroids plant - which all showed particularly disappointing financial and economic rates of
return compared to those estimated at the time of appraisal (See Item 6 in Part III).
19.   The BIOGAL Plasters plant has suffered from a much slower market build-up (due, at least in
part, to market restrictions in the license agreement which were not known at the time of appraisal), as
well lower profit margins (due to lower real selling prices) compared to those envisaged in the appraisal
report. BIOGAL's Synthesis unit was intended to produce amoxycillin, but in the event the industrial
scale process proved to be uneconomic, and the plant never operated. Currently, pilot operations are
being undertaken in order to find a profitable use for the equipment. In the case of CHINOIN's
Pyrethroids project, there was a large capital cost overrun, while selling prices were only about one third
(in real terms) of those estimated at the time of appraisal. CHINOIN's Injections unit took al least one
year longer to complete and cost almost 65% more, than was estimated at appraisal. While operating
costs increased roughly in line with inflation, prices were, in real terms, only about 40% of those
estimated at appraisal. After initial problems with capacity utilization, the plant produced at 100%
capacity in 1993. According to CHINOIN, the plant ranks second among the five injection plants of the
international group to which CHINOIN now belongs.
20.    All the pharmaceutical companies now appear to have found other remunerative markets for their
formulations, which as a result of the Bank supported investments, now meet international GMP
standards. However, because of market problems, the veterinary products plant at EGIS has in the last
few years shown a lower profitability than projected at the time of appraisal. On the other hand, the
REANAL diagnostics plant has consistently shown satisfactory rates of return.



-7-
21.   The managements of most of these companies have expressed the view that, without the Bank
supported investments, the companies would not have been able to survive the collapse of the CMEA
markets. One of the major pharmaceutical enterprises (CHINOIN) has now been privatized while some
others are still in the process of negotiating with prospective partners. All the companies have now been
corporatized and represent attractive opportunities for overseas pharmaceutical companies and other
potential investors. This attractiveness has undoubtedly been enhanced by the investments supported by
the Project. Several of the enterprises have now made significant changes to their organizational set-ups
so as to deal more effectively with the challenges of free market competition. By and large, therefore,
the objectives of the strategy of both the Borrower and the Bank, as far as the Pharmaceutical subsector
is concerned, have been achieved. It is fair to say that the objectives and strategy would not have been
significantly different even if both parties had been aware in 1985 that the industry would have so soon
to face a radically different marketing situation and economic climate.
22.   While NITROKEMIA's unit to produce a pesticide intermediate, (monochloracetic acid) has given
much higher rates of return than expected, only part of the ion exchange resins plant has so far been
completed. Mention has already been made of the initial failure of CAOLA's sulphonation plant to
operate satisfactorily, and its late start up. BORSODCHEM's investment in MDI production facilities
also initially proved a disappointment. During the protracted negotiations with the process Licensor,
BORSODCHEM had to accept that, for the first four years of operation (i.e. up to the end of 1994), sales
of MDI would be restricted to CMEA countries. With the collapse of these markets, only a small part
of the output capacity of the plant could be sold. During the inception stage of the project, Bank staff
had urged BORSODCHEM to erect a MDI derivatives plant from which could be marketed polyurethane
systems; this subproject was indeed to be financed as part of another Bank loan to Hungary. However,
because of BORSODCHEM's financial situation, which has considerably deteriorated, the company has
as yet not found the local currency requirements to undertake the greater part of this investment and sales
of MDI remained low for a considerable time. Today, however, the plant is operating at better than 50%
capacity utilization.
(b) Research and Development
23.   Two subprojects under this subheading which are worthy of note are (i) the toxicological testing
station at NEVIKI; and (ii) the clinical trials undertaken as part of the pharmaceuticals pre-mnarketing pilot
operation. The original justification for the NEVIKI investment was the anticipated need to carry out
toxicological trials on a new range of plant protection chemicals planned to be produced by the
Hungarian pesticides industry for domestic consumption and for export. During the construction phase
of the project, however, it became apparent that, with the decline of R&D efforts in this field, there
would be little or no demand for NEVIKI to test such products. NEVIKI, which meanwhile had become
an independent laboratory, therefore changed the project concept to carry out pharmokinetic studies on
new pharmaceutical molecules, entailing an increase in investment for high accuracy analytical equipment.
Although the laboratory is operating according to the modified concept, unfortunately the rate of build-up
of business initially proved inadequate to cover the operating expenses of the laboratory and the company
was placed in the hands of a liquidator, who intended to sell the laboratory. Over time, the work load
of the laboratory has been built up, and it is now operating at well over 50% of its capacity.
24.   With the transition of Hungary's economy from central planning to a market economy, each of
the pharmaceutical companies participating in the pre-marketing pilot operation preferred to carry out
clinical trials on their own original preparations, rather than carrying out a joint operation as originally
envisaged. On the basis of recommendations by independent consultants, one molecule from CHINOIN



-8-
and two from GEDEON RICHTER were selected for clinical trials under this component. These
companies have now become familiar with the steps which have to be taken in carrying out acceptable
clinical trials in EC countries and how to manage the pre-registration activities which have to be
undertaken before marketing can be undertaken. It has not been possible to complete all stages of the
clinical trials before the closing date of the A loan. However, all parties concerned are anxious that this
component will be successfully completed; reallocation of items being financed between the A and B loans
has enabled the clinical trials to continue. So far, the results obtained are extremely encouraging. One
of these molecules has now been registered in Japan and had sales in its first marketing year in excess
of US$80 million.
G. Bank Performance
25.    Because procurement on earlier Bank projects in Hungary had been slow, special attention was
paid to this issue during and after appraisal; a Project Coordination Office was set up in Budapest with
Hungarian staff of high quality. None-the-less, procurement difficulties persisted throughout the initial
phases as the Foreign Trade Companies and Design Institutes had to adapt their fundamental thinking to
accommodate the procedures laid down in the Bank's procurement guidelines.
26.   Bank staff directly concerned with the project were more than usually entrepreneurial during the
design and appraisal stages. Some elements in the managements of both the pharmaceutical industry and
the Bank were reluctant to accept the inclusion of subcomponents which would require the industry to
move into the lucrative but highly competitive export business and to develop a marketing operation in
the industrialized countries; a great deal of persuasion had to be applied. Bank procedures and time
scales were not really compatible with decision taking in an industry where managements have to act
rapidly in response to changes in market requirements and competitive situations. Strictly speaking, every
subproject should have been identified, and sufficient engineering design carried out to provide a firm
estimate of investment cost by the time of Board presentation; this was one reason why there were cost
overruns. However, if the project had been delayed until firm estimates had been available, it is doubtful
whether some components would ever have been implemented, since competitors in the export markets
could have moved in first. CHINOIN withdrew their request for a fermentation plant and replaced it with
what proved to be a very successful subproject to produce an anti-osteoporosis preparation. Bank staff
accepted this change based on quite preliminary market assessments and capital cost estimates and Legal
Department showed commendable flexibility in coping with this change, which provided one of the
winners in the subprojects. Because of the complexity of the project, and the fact that this was the Bank's
first major operation in the pharmaceutical industry, supervision requirements were relatively heavy, but
definitely contributed to the success of the project. Even more frequent supervision missions might
conceivably have reduced schedule slippages and cost overruns, but most of these were beyond the
control of the Bank and the Borrower.
H. Borrower Performance
27.   As in other Bank supported projects, the success is a tribute to the high quality of the Hungarian
staff involved in all aspects of implementation. Special credit is due to the NBH staff, whether in the
Department of International Development Institutions or the Credit Departments (which were hived off
and formed the core of the competing credit banks during the course of the implementation of the
project), who, together with the PCO, kept the project on the rails during a time of radical reform and
changes in the Hungarian economy. Most of the managements of the individual enterprises performed



-9-
well, including some of those whose projects were not successful. We could have hoped for nmore
incisive action from the managements of only two of the eleven enterprises participating in the proje"
L. Project Sustainability
28.   The project was conceived and implemented for the most part while the Hungarian economy was
to a large extent centrally directed. Nevertheless, even under the radical economic and political changes
which have taken place in the early 1990's towards a market economy, most of the project components
have remained economically viable. As far as the participating pharmaceutical companies are concerned,
because of their relatively cheap and highly productive scientific manpower, their R&D facilities have
produced a number of interesting new pharmaceuticals at relatively low cost. All of the pharmaceutical
companies, and some of the chemical operations, have drawn considerable interest from Western
companies. The strategy of the pharmaceutical companies has been to seek foreign ownership that would
preserve and enhance the companies R&D capability, and not to regulate the company to merely a
production unit of the foreign owners. CHINOIN has been successful in this strategy and has been
acquired by the French ELF group, but so far the other companies remain wholly Hungarian, although
many of them have joint ventures with Western companies for particular product lines. All these
companies have succeeded in overcoming the crisis caused by the collapse of the CMEA markets and are
now operating profitably. The sustainability of these operations is therefore not in doubt.
29.   Apart from NEVIKI, which is bankrupt, the sustainability of some other projects and companies
is uncertain, since the ultimate effect of free market competition, and the collapse of the CMEA markets,
on their operations is not yet clear. CAOLA has preferred to await the outcome of arbitration on the
sulphonation plant rather than taking independent steps to try to get the plant to work. The company has
been trying to acquire a foreign partner but has not yet succeeded. The long term sustainability of the
company has yet to be determined. In spite of the current difficult financial situation in which
BORSODCHEM finds itself, the company is probably sustainable, as is the MDI unit when the initial
market constraints insisted upon by the process vendors no longer operate. It seems to be the intention
to privatize smaller, viable parts of BORSODCHEM, rather than the company as a whole; this process
is already under way. The issue of environmental pollution, which is critical for NITROKEMIA, is
aggravated by the geographical location of the company. Drastic and expensive steps will have to be taken
if the company is to conform to Hungarian environmental standards; however, if the company can
successfully address this issue, both the project financed under this loan, as well as most of the other
operations of the company, should be sustainable. All the companies which participated in the project
were traditional suppliers to the former CMEA; although they have now reoriented their marketing to
the West, nevertheless they are well poised to re-establish trade with the CIS and other Eastern European
countries.
J. Findings and Lessons Learned
30.   Although some subprojects have not been successful, the project demonstrated that it was possible
to carry out what was essentially a restructuring exercise for the major part of an important state-owned
subsector; the restructuring, for several of the companies involved has strengthened their abilities to
operate in a market environment and by orienting their marketing strategy towards western markets has
allowed them to survive the loss of traditional markets. Some of these companies have thus been able
to negotiate meaningfully with potential foreign investors. The companies that have best survived the
transition to a market economy are those which were able to better adjust their operations to compete
effectively in Western markets - mostly the pharmaceutical enterprises - and those that have fared less



-10-
favorably are mostly in the chemical sector. These companies have had problems competing effectively
in Western markets.
31.    During the period of transition in Hungary from a centrally planned to a market economy, this
project too suffered the same systemic (e.g. high interest rates, tight credit conditions, etc.) and more
general (e.g.conditions of eligibility, etc.) problems as the other industry projects in the portfolio. The
experience under the project demonstrate, the need to have in place satisfactory arrangements to ensure
that systemic and more general issues affecting the sector as a whole are adequately reflected in project
supervision and monitoring. In this respect, the supervision arrangements for this project, under which
there was little direct involvement in project supervision by the country operations division, may have
permitted in these aspects receiving less attention under this project than other projects that form a part
of the country operations division's industry portfolio.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2511-HU)
PART II: LOAN REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Design and Organization
1.    At appraisal and during the initial phase of the implementation of the project the banking system
in Hungary was still unilevel, so all the financing arrangements (including subloans) were handled by the
National Bank of Hungary. Later on, with the establishment of the two-level banking system, all
subloans and local loans for the Project were taken over by a single commercial bank, the Creditbank.
One other bank had played a role in one project, viz. the State Development Bank in providing the State's
share in the finance of the Dorog Organic Waste Incinerator. These arrangements proved to be successful
and enabled an easy and close control of the onlending and local finance.
2.    The sectoral counterpart of the Bank was the then Ministry of Industry (MIT) which later became
Ministry of Industry and Trade. MIT participated in the appraisal and assumed responsibility for the
supervision of implementation.
3.    Because this was an early Bank supported project in Hungary, it was deemed useful to establish
a project coordination office in order to prevent difficulties that could arise because the beneficiary
companies and other Hungarian institutions concerned were not yet acquainted with the requirements and
procedures of the Bank, especially with procurement guidelines. Therefore the then Ministry of Industry
set up a Project Coordinating Office for Fine Chemicals in the framework of an engineering consultancy
company which earlier participated in the appraisal of the project. The mandate and responsibility of the
unit was agreed upon, and it reported directly to the general director of the Ministry responsible for Bank
projects. The unit covered supervision of implementation and assisted the participating companies in bid
preparation and evaluation.
4.    In order to minimize procurement problems it was agreed that procurement would be done only
by the two foreign trading organizations who had a dominant position in carrying out procurement of the
subsector. As there was little experience at that time in hiring foreign consultants, the unit directly
participated in the selection and contracting of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
B. Project Implementation
5.    Project implementation was slow and problematic at the beginning. The implementation time
schedule of the subprojects established at appraisal needed review, and also project scope and investment



- 12 -
costs had to be revised, because some of the projects were included on the basis of not fully consolidated
data. This review was made right at the beginning of implementation and subsequently the revised
schedules, scopes and budgets were used as reference.
6.     The Project Coordinating Office was set up only at the beginning of the implementation period,
and needed some leaming time to fulfil its assigned functions. Also, it took time until the participating
companies accepted the Office and smooth working procedures were established.
7.    Initially it caused problems that consolidated local design and engineering practices had to be
changed from designing according to known type or make of equipment to designing according to
functional specifications. Engineering companies who adopted such methods have, however, profited
from it in the end. On the other hand, this had a bearing on procurement as well, as initially
specifications tended to be make-oriented or too vague to enable smooth procurement.
8.     Although procurement was carried out by two foreign trading companies only, again, it took time
until traditional procurement methods could be changed and the Bank guidelines followed. (ICB was not
practiced in Hungary at that time; instead LIB-like procedures were used with price negotiation before
award, and specifications were generally quite loose and could be changed during bid clarification).
9.    Most of the projects suffered from overruns and slippages during implementation.
Overruns in total project cost were due to a number of reasons, most of them beyond the
control of companies:
A continuous devaluation of the Forint against convertible currencies in the second half
of the implementation period (at appraisal 50 HUF/US$ rate was used, now it is more
than 50% higher);
.Significant increase in the interest rates (the interest rate for the Bank loan, which was
14% in 1985, had risen to 23.5% by 1990);
Introduction of various taxes on investment and on CMEA exports (the accumulation tax
at the beginning, replaced later by the VAT). A number of companies, however, were
able to eliminate VAT by applying for export generation status for their projects;
Devaluation of the loan currency US$ against the currencies of major equipment supplier
countries (the DM/US$ rate was 3.15 in Jan. 1985, and 1.58 in Jan. 1988);
Deregulation of the building prices at the beginning of 1987, which led to substantial
price increases;
Price increases at the local equipment suppliers which were due, among others, to the
increasing cost of CC imports needed by them.
Slippages have also occurred in most of the projects. Some of the major reasons were as
follows:



- 13 -
Problems were generally encountered with delays in the delivery of local equipment and
in the performance of contractors. Most of the delays were due to difficulties in the
procurement of imported materials from CC markets;
Procurement in general was slower than expected; in particular, bid evaluations of big
packages consisting of many individual items took a long time;
In some instances the local construction/erection contractors (still in a monopolistic
position despite the gradual penetration of market forces) were unable to cope with the
higher requirements, e.g. the time needed to develop local production of sterile partition
walls and floor coverings to meet GMP requirements and the subsequent jamming of two
injection projects resulted in implementation delays.
The biggest project within the loan, the MDI plant of BORSODCHEM suffered delays
mainly because of prolonged negotiations with the process licensor and engineering
contractor over market constraints and modification of the basic engineering of the plant;
The ion exchange resin project of NITROKEMIA suffered delays because originally it
was based on an intergovernmental raw material versus. end product barter scheme with
the USSR and it failed in the end, so the project had to be reshaped from the market end.
On the other hand, it was intended for greenfield installation which had to be changed
and redesigned for installation within existing space with partial reconstruction of existing
equipment.
10.   The implementation of the project took one year longer than originally planned, mainly due to
the problems discussed above. The original closing date of June 1989 was extended to June 1990, when
the A and B loans were reallocated in order to cover all outstanding financial requirements from the B
loan which had no fixed closing date. One subproject (NITROKEMIA's above project) was only partially
completed within the time span of the project, while the pre-marketing pilot operation (clinical trials)
developed into a longer term project that goes beyond the closing date and is since then financed from
the B loan.
11.   In general, during the implementation period the participating companies had to cope with a
deteriorating general economic environment, which, on the one hand, increased the costs of their projects,
while, on the other hand, their financial resources became more and more limited. At the time of
appraisal, although it was expected that the economic system of Hungary would change towards market
economy, it was impossible to foresee and consider the political turn and all the economic changes that
took place during the implementation period of the project.
C. Project Results
12.   a.Investment Projects
(i) Upgrading manufacturing capacities of the pharmaceutical industry to international standards.
All elements of this component were successfully completed.All the four participating
pharmaceutical companies established/upgraded formulation capacities which meet GMP standards
and thus eliminate the constraints to exports and domestic sales in up-to-date dosage formulations,



- 14 -
including injectables at each of them. One project (EGIS) had to be revised in scope and budget,
mainly because of unforeseen difficulties resulting from the greenfield installation of the facility.
Since appraisal major, if not dramatic changes have taken place in the market orientation of these
projects with the collapse of the Soviet market, followed by the slow and partial recovery of the
CIS markets after the change from Ruble to Dollar accounting. The four projects apparently
were able to cope with this challenge, and now they are also capable to meet the increased
requirements of the ex Soviet market.
(ii) Initiation, expansion and modernization of the production of pharmaceuticals, MDI-based
products and other selected fine and speciality chemicals for export generation/import
substitution. All elements of this component successfully completed, except the Ion Exchange
Resin facility of NITROKEMIA which was partially finished.
(iii) The pharmaceutical companies debottlenecked and upgraded fermentation and synthesis
capacities, as well as production of veterinary preparations, surgical plaster capacities and the
production and formulation of synthetic pyrethroids. In the case of CHINOIN's fermentation
facility, the original concept was withdrawn for market and process development reasons and
replaced within the original budget with the synthesis of a very successful anti-osteoporosis
preparation where the market required larger than planned quantities. In the case of BIOGAL's
synthesis plant, the production of the original product, amoxycillin, became uneconomic, and the
company has to seek other products to produce with appropriate modification of the technology.
(iv) BORSODCHEM implemented the biggest element of the project, an MDI plant, which was
commissioned more than two years later than laid down in the revised schedule. The delays were
due to prolonged negotiations with the process owner regarding licensing and design/engineering,
modification of the basic engineering by the supplier, as well as procurement and implementation
problems. While the licensor posed severe CC market constraints for the first four years of
operation, i.e. until the end of 1994, the concept was based on the local and CMEA markets.
The dissolution of the CMEA and the substantial decline of the local demand forced the company
to work out an entirely new marketing plan where the major outlets of the product are Western
markets. To this the company would need further investments to produce MDI downstream
products, a part of which has started under another Bank financed project, but had to be
suspended because of the financial situation of the company, BORSODCHEM seeks the way out
in the frame of its privatization which has already started. BORSODCHEM might need to ask
for the rescheduling of its loans with the commercial bank.
(v)  NITROKEMIA's monochloracetic-acid (MCA) capacity expansion, originally an import
substitution project, sells now about 25% of the output in CC markets because of the decrease
of domestic demand and its captive use, due to the decline of Soviet exports of MCA-based
products. The ion exchange resins facility was based originally on an intergovernmental raw
material versus end product barter with the USSR which showed good profitability. The project
had to be redesigned from greenfield installation to plant area installation with partial
reconstruction of existing production elements. On the marketing side, with the collapse of
Soviet trade, the marketing concept also had to be reviewed and new CC outlets secured, but the
suppressed market does not enable full capacity utilization of the old and partly finished new
facilities. Lack of own resources prevents the company to complete the whole revised project.



- 15 -
(vi) CAOLA has completed its multiproduct sulphonation facility, which, however failed to
meet the guaranteed values for some selected products. After unsuccessful negotiation with the
supplier CAOLA brought the case to arbitration in early 1989 and they are still in the preparatory
stage of the case. In the meantime the market conditions have also changed: the gap between
raw material and end product price decreased and the market shifted towards the failing products.
In 1991, while the case was still under arbitration, CAOLA decided to make the modifications
to enable commercial operation. Since 1991, the unit has been in commercial operation with the
arbitration still going on.
(vii) REANAL successfully completed its plant producing diagnostic test kits and laboratory
reagents. With the collapse of the Soviet market, the company had to revise its marketing policy
and seek new outlets in the Western market.
b. Establishment of new and upgrading of existing research and development facilities
13.   Three pharmaceutical companies and the Drug Research Institute modernized and expanded their
R & D instrumentation in the value of US$1 million each. This enables the companies to meet higher
analytical standards and to improve the instrumental laboratory support of research and development
work.
14.   VEGYTERV  improved its design capabilities by purchasing plotting, computing and
reprographical equipment and associated software.
15.   NEVIKI implemented a toxicological testing station with the concept originally of facilitating the
registration of new Hungarian plant protection chemicals in foreign countries. The unit is now an
independent laboratory capable of carrying out a wide range of short and long term animal tests under
GLP standards. The original market has substantially changed with the decline of research efforts in the
plant protection chemicals field. The company modified the scope in 1988 in order to shift towards
pharmacokinetics studies, but still there is not enough business to utilize the capacities. In the meantime
NEVIKI became bankrupt and will be liquidated. The liquidator intends to sell the station which is
operating and meeting the OECD GLP standards.
c.Pharmaceutical pre-marketing pilot operation
16.   The original concept was to put together, through a joint operation of several research based
pharmaceutical companies, a basket of products with maximum number of original preparations for
clinical trials in selected OECD countries, which, if successful, could provide the basis for pilot
marketing operations in one or two countries. Under the transition from central planning to market
economy the participating companies were reluctant to launch a joint operation and finally nominated
products individually. One molecule of CHINOIN and two molecules of GEDEON RICHTER were
found suitable for inclusion in this component. Although by the time of writing this report neither of
these molecules completed the trials and got registration, this pilot operation is considered successful as
-     the participating companies are determined to continue the studies to completion
because they realize the increased earning potential of molecules registered by
themselves;



- 16 -
they became familiar with, and learned to manage and control, pre-registration
activities in foreign countries with the help of local consultants and study
facilities;
they adopted the requirements of Good Laboratory Practices and Good Clinical
Practices in their own research work.
17.   Because of initial difficulties, the familiarization with the field and other delaying factors
emerging with the progress of the studies, this component goes beyond the time frame of the project.
Further financing was provided from the B loan and from own resources of the companies.
d.Studies and Training
18.   Top level management members of the 11 participating companies took part in a training course
and study tour in strategic planning in 1986 in order to introduce and strengthen the strategic approach
to management and planning. Internationally known consulting firms provided training in the theory
which was followed by the transfer of practical knowledge and exchange of experience. Subsequently,
a central training institute of MIT was helped to enhance its capabilities in offering training in the field
for companies in the chemical and other industries.
19.   Studies were completed on five branches of the chemical industry, viz. fertilizers, plant protection
and pharmaceutical intermediates, basic petrochemicals, detergents, and paints/varnishes. The studies
were prepared with the help of specialized foreign consultants and discussed between the Bank and the
relevant authorities. By the time of the completion of the studies the subsector orientation of Bank
finance has been changed to more subsector independent financing criteria, so no dedicated project was
proposed in the above fields. Some of the recommended developments were accommodated in the
ongoing restructuring projects financed by the Bank.
e.Environment and Safety
20.   As a joint project of G. RICHTER, CHINOIN and EGIS, a waste incinerator was built at Dorog,
with Government participation in the financing, to permit disposal of the hazardous wastes of said
companies and to serve other industrial facilities in the region. The project was designed to meet very
strict emission limits in order to eliminate the reservations of the local population.
21.   The investment projects were implemented in adherence to the environmental and safety
regulations in force which were found satisfactory by the Bank.
22.   In order to ensure that the risk levels of hazardous operations are within the acceptable limits a
hazard and operability study was carried out for the pyrethroid facilities of CHINOIN; hazard and
operability studies, as well as risk assessment, were also carried out for the new MDI facility and the
existing phosgene plant of BORSODCHEM. The studies and the recommendations were discussed with
the Bank.



- 17 -
D. Project Sustainability
23.   The viability of most of the components can be sustained even under the dramatically changed
economic (and political) environment. Sustainability must be looked at in the context of privatization
which has either taken place or will take place in the coming 1-2 years at most of the participating
companies.
CHINOIN has already been privatized with the French ELF Group. The privatization of
GEDEON RICHTER, EGIS and BIOGAL did not succeed in the first round.
Negotiations are going on with potential investors. It has been confirmed by the
companies that the up-to-date capacities established under the project brought them into
better bargaining positions with the foreign partners. The Dorog incinerator, originally
a joint investment of three pharmaceutical companies, has also been privatized with a
foreign investor.
NEVIKI is not viable; it needs foreign help to become internationally accepted and,
through that, to get enough business, as well as operational finance.
BORSODCHEM is sustainable as a whole. However, it cannot be privatized as a whole.
Privatization of various smaller parts of BORSODCHEM has already taken place. Up
till now, nine spin-off companies have been established, some of them with foreign
investors.
24.   Most of the companies had substantial Soviet exports which had to be redirected towards the West
with the collapse of the Soviet market. Most of the companies succeeded, to various extents, in coping
with this challenge, but they cannot afford to withdraw from this market and must recover their positions
in the Republics. To this end, they continue to need the support of the Government, especially in
providing financial and payment instruments, as well as in getting business opportunities in the framework
of aid flowing into the Republics.



- 18 -
PART m: BASIC DATA SHhET
1.    Related Bank Loans: Loan 2511-HU was the second loan made by the Bank to Hungary for support of the
Industrial Sector. other Bank operations in the sector in Hungary are summarized below.
Loan Number        Loan Title         Year of Approval         Loan Amount   Status
(USS million)
2317-HU            Industrial Energy   1983               109                 Completed
Diversification and
Conservation Project
2700-HU            First Industrial    1986               100                 PCR under
Restructuring                                              preparation
2709-HU            Second Industrial   1986                25                 PCR under
Energy                                                     preparation
Conservation Project                                                         l
2834-HU            Second Industrial    1987              150                 PCR under
Restructuring                                              preparation
Project            _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _    _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
2966-HU            Technology          1988                50
Development Project                                                          l
3020-HU            Third Industrial    1989               140                 Proceeding
Restructuring                                              satisfactorily
Project                                                  .                   l
2.      ect Imetabl
Item                 Planned Date                Actual Date
Project Brief and Issues Paper  10/15/84                 10/15/84
Preappraisal/Appraisal      1/03/85                      1/03/85
Loan Negotiaton             2/27/85                      2/27/85
Board Approval              4/02/85                      4/02/85
Loan Signature              4/26/85                      4/26/85
Loan Effectiveness          6/07/85                      6/07/85
Loan Closing                6/30/90                      12/31/90
Last Disbursement           6/30/90                      9/30/90



- 19 -
The Loan Closing Date was extended in June 1990 by six months to December 31 1990, in order to finance some of the
clinical trials in the pre-marketing pilot operation, as well as part of the NITROKEMIA subproject (ion exchange resins).
In the event, the latter component could not be completed. Completion of some of the clinical trials was financed under
the B Loan.
3.    Loan Disburselnents
(US$ Million)
Bank Financial Year      Estimated             Actual             Actual % of
and Semester         Cumulative           Cumulative           Cumulative
1986
12/31/85              2.0                  5.2     .           260.0
06/30/86              6.6                  7.8                 118.2
1987
12/31/86             13.6                 18.0                 132.4
06/30/87             23.4                 40.6                 173.5
1988
12/31/87             35.4                 47.1                 133.1
06/30/88             49.6                 60.0                 121.0
1989
12/31/88             59.0                 62.5                 105.9
06/30/89             65.0                 64.4                 99.1
1990
12/31/89             70.0                 68.0                 97.1
06/30/90             73.0                 68.5                 93.8
1991
09/30/90              73.0                73.0                 100.0



- 20 -
4.    Suburolect Costs. Flxed Assets and Workini Caoital
TOTAL          FIXED       WORKING       OTHERS
COMPONENT              SUBPROJECT                       PROJECT        ASSETS        CAPITAL     (INTEREST,
COST                                    VAT, ETC)
Part (A)           GEDEON RICHTER                     O
1 (a)             Injections            planned       1,650,000     1,3e8,000      100,000       182,000
actual       2,051,942     1,839,962       100,000     311,980
1 (b)             Fermentation          planned        800,000       710,000         .-.         90,000
actual       1,018,720      829,249                     189,471
CHINOIN
2 (a)             Injections            planned       768,000        680,100        14,900       73,000
actual       1,268.394     1,024,206        14,000      230,188
2 ib)             Ipriflavon            planned       398,900       390,200          8,700       ---
actual        424,246       379,169         8,700       36,381
2 Ic)             Activa Ingredients    planned       482,500       410,800         23,700       48,000
actual        892,295       742,453         18,900      130,942
2 (d)             Pyrethrolds           planned       497,100        378,300        80,800       40,000
actual        499,721       404,473         60,600      34,648
EGIS
3 (a)             Liquid formulations   planned       390,000        360,000        20,000       10,000
actual        876,173       763,258         20,000       92,915
3 (b)             Cardlo-vasculars      planned       490,000       416,000         46,000       28,000
actual        625,516       525,787        46,000        53,729
3 (cI)            Veterinary products   planned       2eo8000        234,540        20,000        5,460
actual        478,665       404,248         20,000       54,419
BIOGAL
4 (a)             Formulations          planned      1,140,000      1,020,000       60,000        -
actual       1,462,722     1,221.344        60,000      181,378
4 (b)             Synthesis             planned       408,500        360.100        20,000       26,400
actual        512,700       423.544         20,000       69.156
4 Ic)             Plasters              planned       280,000        210,000        40,000       30,000
actual        380,604       302,321        40,000        38,283
5                  REANAL               planned        107,700       89,700          6,000       12,000
Diagnostics          actual         116,600       86,942          6,000       23,658
NITROKEMIA
6 (a)             Monochloracatic acid  planned        187,176       133,194        13,296       40,686
actusl        201,639       132,647         13,296       55,696
6 (b)             Ion exchange resins   planned       866,024        801,024        85,000        ...
actual       1,235,328     1,170,328        65.000        ...



- 21 -
Unit thousand HUF
COMPONENT          SUBPROJECT                           TOTAL         FIXED ASSETS   WORKING       OTHERS
PROJECT                      CAPITAL       lInterest,
COST                                       VAT, etc)
7 (a)               BORSODCHEM            planned       3,928,301     2,845.300        71,600      1,011,401
MDI Plant             actual        5,639,587      3,412,702        71,600      2,146,281
8                   CAOLA                 planned        237,800       214,000            ...        23,800
Sulfonation           actual         241,351        209,413           ...        31,938
10                  NEVIKI                planned        333,712       295,471         38,241        ...
Toxicological         actual         414,282        374,911         39,371        --
tasting station
G. RICHTER, CHINOIN, EGIS, GYKI & VEGYTERV
1/c, 21e, 3/d,9    R&D and reproductive   planned        236,227       174,367          1,100        60,780
11                 equipment.             actual         287,607       222,484          2,339        62,784
Part (B)            G. RICHTER, CHINOIN
Pro-marketing         planned        294,703         ..                --         294,703
pilot operation       actual         151,578         ---              --          151,578
Part (C            Dorog waste incinerator   planned    1, 766,200    1,629,200         20,000       117,000
actual       2,134,593      1,786,916         20,000      327,677
Part (Di           Studies and training   planned'        14,082        ---               ---        14,082
actual,         26,890        ---                          26,890
Other soft items total  planned        10,043        -                 ---        10,043
actual          1,775         -                 --          1,775
TOTAL                planned       15,545,968    12,719,296       649.337     2,177,335
actual       20,942,928     16,065,355      625,806      4,251,767
Note: * conversion rate used is 46.94 HUFIUS$



- 22 -
5. Proiect Financina
Category        Project                Description                          A Loan          A Loan         B Loan
I               I_______ iEntity                                             Planned          Actual      | Actual
1 la)           G. RICHTER             equipment & materials                5,550.0          8,525.6       4.355.6
1 Ib)           G. RICHTER             consultants & training                 50.0             52.6
2 (a)           CHINOIN                equipment & materials                6,935.0          9,744.3       4,588.2
2 (b)           CHINOIN                pyrethroids                           800.0            239.4
2 (ci           CHINOIN                consultants & training                 65.0             6.2
3 (a)           EGIS                   equipment & materials                6,250.0          9,211.5       4,386.8
3 (bI           EGIS                   consultants & training                 50.0             58.8
4 Ia)           BIOGAL                 equipment & materials                6,250.0          7,015.7       1,257.6
4 (bI           BIOGAL                 consultants & training                 50.0             58.8
S               REANAL                 equipment & materials                 400.0            675.5         344.9
6               NITROKEMIA             equipment & materials                3,000.0          3,669.8       1,710.0
7 (a)           BORSODCHEM             equipment & materials                16,650/0        23,108.0       2,138.8
7 (bI           BORSODCHEM             consultants & training               2,500.0           753.6
8               CAOLA                  equipment & materials                 700.0            797.4         647.7
9               GYKI                   equipment & materials                 600.0            642.1          542.6
10 (a)          NEVIKI                 equipment & materials                1,320.0          1,592.4        202.6
10 (b)          NEVIKI                 consultants & training                 30.0            45.8



- 23 -
6.     Financial and Economic Rates of Return on Suboroiects
Subproject              FRR (%)          FRR %)          FRR (%          ERR 1%)         ERR %)        ERR (%
Plamned          Actuai           Actual           Plamed         Actuai         Actual
11991 prIces)    (Current prices)              (1991 prices)  (Current prices)
GEDEON RICHTER
Injections           37               19.3            29.9            39              29.6          41.7
Fermentation         40               16.4            25.7            42              30.1          41.8
CHINOIN
Injections           37               1.1             11.2            41              3.8           14.5
Ipriflavon            29              50.9            74.7            30              58.4          83.8
Active Ingredients    78              36.4            52.9            83 .            39.6          56.5
Pyrethroids          69              -20.4           -14.0            71              -3.4           5.8
EGIS
Liquid Formulations  41               19.3            31.6            44              26.5          40.8
Cardiovasculars       56              22.5            35.3            60              33.8          47.9
Veterinary products   21              9.5             20.9            24              12.7          25.1
BIOGAL
Formulations          21              53.8            75.8            24              57.8          80.6
Synthesis             18              N.A.            N.A.            20              N.A.           N.A.
Plasters              22             -2.7             4.7             25              0.4            8.3
REANAL
Diagnostic           43               25.5            38.3            52              30.3          43.7
NITROKEMIA
Monochloracetic acid    43            31.3            46.9            46              41.8          58.8
Ion exchange resins  42               N.A.            N.A.            43              N.A.           N.A.
BORSODCHEM
MDI plant             18              2.0             8.6             19              2.8            9.5
CAOLA
Sulfonation           52              N.A.            N.A.            57              N.A.           N.A.
7.     Status of Covenants
Covenant                   Subject of Covenant                   Deadline            Status
From the Government:
GA 4.02       Ensure withdrawal of obsolescent drugs and introduce  12/31181    Complied with
new withdrawal mechanism.                          01/01/87      Complied with
GA 4.03 ia)    Ensure enforcement of safety, health and            n.a.         Complied with
environmental
regulation in execution and operation of subprojects



- 24 -
Covenant                    Subject of Covenant                    Deadline            Status
From the Government:
GA 4.03 (b)    Ensure provision of facilities to handle organic wastes  01/31t89  Complied with
in                                                                  (also see note)
North-East Hungary
GA 4.04        Enable the 4 pharmaceutical companies to register and   n.a.       Complied with
market selected products, and provide funding                                           l
GA 4.01        Establish and maintain a coordinating office with       n.a.       Established in May
agreed functions                                                   1985
GA 2.02        Make available to NBH the foreign exchange required     n.a.       Complied with
to complete
the project
GA 3.01        Provide the necessary funds to complete subsector       n.a.       Completed 86/87
studies                                                             Complied with
(fertilizers, paints, detergents, petrochemicals,
intermediates) and
a training program in strategic planning                                                l
GA 3.02        Employ consultants for subsector studies             06/30/86      Completed 86/87
Employ consultants for strategic planning             06/30/86     Complied with
GA 3.03        Ensure selection of consultants in accordance with      n.a.       Complied with
Bank
guidelines and follow stipulated auditing and reporting
From NBH and/Or Creditbank (with the introduction of the two-level bank system):
LA 3.01        Make available foreign exchange to Project entities and  n.a.      Complied with
provide its share of local funding
LA 3.01       Make subloans to project entities at specified terms    n.a.        Complied with
and conditions
LA 3.02       Submit to the Bank for review lists of procurement      n.a.        Complied with
packaging to be financed under the loan
LA 4.01        Follow stipulated auditing and reporting requirements  n.a.        Complied with
From the Project entities:
PA 3.04 (b)    BORSODCHEM to submit a comprehensive marketing       06/30/87      Completed in 1990
plan for MDI
PA 3.04 (a)    BORSODCHEM to present a proposal on the              12/31/85      Complied with
management structure
of polyurethane activities
PA Schedule    BORSODCHEM to contract foreign engineering services  08/31/85      Completed Jan. 86
for the
MDI plant



- 25 -
Covenant                     Subject of Covenant                    Deadline             Status
From the Government:
PA 2.02 (a)    All entities to ensure that all project facilitates are  n.a.       Complied with
designed and operated in accordance with
environmental, health, and safety regulations
acceptable
to the Bank
PA 2.02 (d)    GEDEON RICHTER to complete the Dorog Incinerator      01/31/89      Completed in 1990
PA 2.02 (b)    CHINOIN to carry out HAZOP for the pyrethroid      before start-up    Complied with
facilities
PA 2.02 (ci    BORSODCHEM to carry out HAZOP and risk                              Completed in 1989
assessment for the phosgene and the MDI plants and
implement
recommendations before MDI start-up
GEDEON RICHTER, CHINOIN, EGIS and BIOGAL to           12/31185      Complied with
complete the draft plan of action for the premarketing
pilot operation and
PA 2.03        employ a consultant for its review                    03130/85      Completed with some
._____________  ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __d elay s
PA 2.01        All entities to provide their share of financing        n.a.        Complied with
PA 4.02 (ai    BORSODCHEM, GEDEON RICHTER, CHINOIN, EGIS               n.a.        Completed with
and BIOGAL and
PA 4.03 (a)    NITROKEMIA to maintain financial ratios as specified                occasional problems
PA 3.02        The relevant entities to ensure that the consultants are  n.a.      Complied with
selected according to Bank guidelines
PA 4.01        All entities to follow stipulated auditing and reporting  n.a.      Complied with
requirements
Notes: * GA- Guarantee Agreement
LA - Loan Agreement
PA - Project Agreement
'The second incinerator was not completed by the date stipulated due to the lack of the necessary finance. The Government requested
the Bank to assist in the provision of finance, but the Bank found no ongoing project from which the investment could be financed. The
Government took measures to provide for the temporary disposal of hazardous wastes in the region concerned which were found
satisfactory by the Bank. Bids were invited in 1991 for the implementation of a 28,000 tpa incinerator and the provision of equity.
Currently pre-implementation preparatory works are carried out.



-26 -
8.      Bank Manpower Erndoved on Projet
Stage of              Year               Number of             Number of          Specialization           Rating
Project Cycle                               Persons             Staff-weeks          Represented'            Status
Preparation            FY84                   3                    5.9             Eng. Eco. F.A.
Appraisal             FY85                   8                   61.9           Eng. Eco. F.A. Leg.
Negotiations           FY85                    6                   6.9              Eng. Eco. Leg
Supervision
1                  FY85                   1                   2.0                  Eng.                   1
2                  FY86                   2                   9.9                Eng. Eco.                1
3                  FY87                   2                   17.6               Eng. Eco.                1
4                  FY88                   2                   8.0                Eng. Eco.                1
5                  FY89                   2                   5.8                Eng. Eco.                1
6                  FY90                   2                   7.4                Eng. Eco.                1
7                  FY91                   2                   2.7                Eng. Eco.                1
Project Completion
1                 FY92                    2                   4.5                Eng. Eco.
2                  FY93                   2                   2.6                Eng. Eco.
3                 FY94                    2                   2.4                Eng. Eco.
Eng .    Engineer
Eco.   Economist
F.A .     Financial Analyst
Leg .    Legal expert



