Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No- 5400-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMI4CALS PROJECT
February 27, 1985
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Forint (FT)
US$1       = Ft 50
Ft I       = US$0.02
WEIGHrS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AiND ACRONYMS
Biogal         - Biogal Pharmaceutical Works
BVK            - Borsod Chemical Works
Caola          - Factory for Cosmetics and Household Chemicals
CC             - Convertible Currency
CREMOLIMPEX    - Foreign Trade Company for the Chemical Industry
Chinoin        - Chemical and Pharmaceutical Works Ltd., Chinoin
CMEA           - Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON)
Egis           - Egis Pharmaceutical Works
Gedeon Richter - Chemical Works of Gedeon Richter
GYKI           - Institute for Drug Research
GYOGYERT       - Pharmaceuticals Wholesale Trading and Distribution Company
KDI            - Methyl Diphenyl Diisocyanate
MEDIMPEX       - Hungarian Joint Trading Company for Pharmaceuticals
NqBH           - National Bank of Hungary
NEVIKI         - Research Institute for Heavy Chemical Industries
Nitrokemia     - Nitrokemia Industrial Works
OMFB           - Office of Technological Development
Reanal         - Reanal Factory of Laboratory Chemicals
SDB            - State Development Bank
VEGYTERV       - Hungarian - anmical Industries Engineering Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Industry Department
January 1985



FOR   ICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
FIDE CHEMICALS PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:       National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
Guarantor:      Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries: Eight chemical companies, two research institutes and a design
and engineering institute.
Amount:         US$73 million equivalent.
Terms:          Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending       US$72.6 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to
TermS:          beneficiary enterprises for periods up to 15 years, including
up to four years of grace, at an interest rate equal to at
least the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up which includes a fee to
cover the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH.
Project         The proposed project seeks to increase and diversify
Description:    production of fine chemicals, particularly pharmaceuticals,
and in keeping with the Bank's assistance strategy to Hungary
is designed to increase foreign exchange earnings in
convertible currencies through the expansion of exports and
import substitution. The major project components consist of
(a) investments by five pharmaceutical enterpri,ses to expand
the production of selected final products and intermediates
and to upgrade production processes to internationally
accepted Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) standards; (b) the
construction of a 25,000 tons per year methyl-diphenyl-
diisocyanate (MDI) plant as a basis for initiating production
of certain types of polyurethanes to supply both the domestic
and export markets; (c) a plant with 15,000 m3 annual
capacity to produce ion exchange resins; (d) investments by
two enterprises to expand production oi selected plant
protection chemicals and their intermediates; (e) a 4,000 tpy
sulfonation plant to supply intermediates, presently imported,
for the production of detergents; (f) construction of an
organic waste incinerator with a capacity of about 25,000 tons
per annum; (g) modern equipment required by enterprises and
research institutes for research and testing of pharmaceutical
and plant protect'on products; (h) assistance to the
pharmaceutical industry in conducting clinical trials and
registration abroad of selected final products for sale in
OECD markets on a pilot basis; and (i) technical assistance
and training.
Project         The project is expected to generate incremental sales
Benefits        revenues at full development of about US$274 million
and Risks:      equivalent and pretax profits of about US$88 million
equivalent per annum. The estimated incremental contribution
This document ha a resuicted diwtibuon and may be used by ecpients only in the perfoa unce of i
theki ofra duties. Its cn   tsn may not otherwse be dbdosed without Wodd Bank authorizato



- ii -
to the Government budget in the form of annual income tax is
estimated at US$47 million equivalent. Net foreign exchange
earnings and savings are estimated at US$106 million equivalent per
year. The project is expected to assist the project beneficiaries
in significantly upgrading their technical level of production.
Other benefits include the strengthening of planning and marketing
systems, particularly in export markets, significant energy savings
in construction from the use of HDI-based polyurethane foams, and
the reduction of environmental pollution through the incineration of
solid wastes and measures to control to acceptable levels air and
liquid pollutants. Furthermore, by upgrading the quality of
production processes, the project would strengthen the
pharmaceutical industry's ability to continue to compete in selling
active ingredients and final products in convertible currency
markets. The main risks of the project concern the MDI and
pharmaceutical components. The profitability of investments in the
pharmaceutical subprojects will depend on the effectiveness of the
companies' research and development efforts to develop innovative
products or better, cheaper processes for existing drugs.
Similarly, the extent of the profits on the MDI project will depend
on the company's ability to develop polyurethane systems and
appropriate marketing arrangements. The project includes assistance
for strengthening R and D and marketing systems, and, based on
conservative assumptions about product development and prices, is
justified economically.
Estimated Costs:                                   Local    Foreign    Total
US$ Million
Production Investments
Pharmaceuticals and intermediates           74.7       49.3      124.0
Plant protection chemicals                  4.7         2.7        7.4
MDI and polyurethane systems                28.2       27.1       55.3
Ion exchange resins                         13.9        4.7      18.6
Detergent intermediates                      0.9        1.1        2.0
Incremental working capital                 14.3        3.6      17.9
Research and Development                        3.0        4.8        7.8
Pilot Marketing Scheme for Pharmaceuticals    0.1          8.3        8.4
Studies, Training, Technical Assistance         0.6        0.8        1.4
Base Cost                                     140.4      102.5      242.9
Physical Contingencies                         12.5        9.1      21.6
Price Contingencies                            26.3       20.7       47.0
Total Project Cost                            179.2 /1   132.3      311.5
/1     Includes $18.7 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
- US $ Million -
World Bank                                                   73.0     73.0
Beneficiaries                                      70.1      -        70.1
NBH                                                97.3     56.8    154.1
SDB                                                 3.0      2.5       5.5
Governmenet                                         8.8                8.8
Total                                          179.2    132.3    311.5
Estimated Disbursements;
IBRD FY                      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
US$ Million
Annual                        6.6      16.8     26.2     15.4       8.0
Cumulative                    6.6     23.4      49.6     65.0      73.0
Economic Rate of Return;   About 36 percent.
Appraisal Report: No.5400-HU, dated February 27, 1985.



HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION..... .....   1
II.      THE CHEMICAL SUBSECTOR AND THE FINE CHEMICALS INDUSTRY              1
a. Introduction                       . ..I
B. The Chemic - "'sector            ..                             2
C.  The Fine ChL-   Is Industry                                    4
D. Pricing             . ............                              8
E.  Marketing and Distribution                                    10
F. Research and Development. . .                                  11
III.     MARKET, MARKETING AND PRICES ................. o ........    ..    12
A.   Pharmaceuticals ........ .. ....................    12
B.  Plant Protection Chemicals: Pyrethroids   .        .15
C.  MDI and MDI-based Polyurethanes        ..16
D. Ion Exchange Resins.                                           18
E.  Intermediates for Plant Protection Chemicals
and Detergents ....................                           19
IV.     THE BORROWER AND PROJECT ENTITIES           .     .    .19
A. Introduction    ..19
B.  The National Bank of Hungary.                                 19
C. The Project Entities .20
V. THE PROJECT .23
A.  Overall Project Objectives and Scope            ..            23
B.  Bank Role and Rationale for Bank Assistance  . .23
C.  Production Investments ......... ..         ...................    24
1.  Objectives and Description ......................         24
2.  Implementation and Schedule ....        .................  27
3.  Environmental Aspects ...........................    27
This report was prepared by Dominiq'ie Babelon, Roger Heath,
David Caplin, Roger Batstone, Sannasie Thiyagarajan of the Bank and
Michael Peretz, Yaacov Ziv and William Firth (Consultants).
Secretarial assistance was provided by Ms. Edna Kelly and word
processing assistance by Mesdames Muriel Greaves, Eleanor George and
Adrianne Johnson.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Continued)                                         Page No.
D.  Research and Development           .............             30
E.  Pharmaceuticals Pre-Marketing Pilot Operation .....    31
F.  Studies, Training, Engineering Design .....                  32
G.  Overall Project Coordination ......................    33
VI.      CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS                                                  34
A.  Capital Costs                     ....                        34
B.  Financing Plan, Borrowing and Onlending Arrangements         36
C.  Procurement                                                  38
D.  Disbursements                                                 39
VII.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...         .......................            41
A.  Revenues, Costs, Profitability and Cash Flows
of Subprojects                           0.000..41
B.  Financial Rates of Return                     ..........    41
C.  Projections of Companies Financial Statements
and Financial Covenants    .......................           41
D.  Reporting and Auditing Requirements ........ .42
VilI.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .................... .... ... . .*......    44
As Assumptions                                                   44
B.  Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Values .....    46
C.  Sensitivity Analysis .....                                   47
D.  Foreign Exchange Savings ....        .    ............       47
E.  Other Benefits and Policy Measures .........47
IX.      AGREEMENTS                                                        48



- iii -
ANNEXES
2-1    The Chemical Subsector (Tables 1 through 5)
2-2    The Regulatory System for Appproval of New Pharmaceutical Products
3-1    Past and Projected Pharmaceuticals World Trade and Hungarian CC
Exports
3-2    Projected world consumption and Incremental Sales of
Pharmaceuticals from the Project, by Therapeutic Classes
3-3    Past and Projected Growth of Hungarian Pharmaceuticals Sales and
Exports - 1983-1990
3-4    Estimated Incremental Pharmaceutical Sales from the Project, by
Type of Products and Markets - 1990
3-5    Estimated Incremental Pharmaceutical Sales from the Project, by
therapeutic classes - 1990
3-6    MDI-Estimated Markets for Projected Output
3-7    Ion Exchange Resins - Actual Production, Projected World Market
Requirements and Supply, and Destination of Project Output
4-1    NBH Financial Statements
4-2    The Project Entities
4-3    Financial Performance of Project Companies - 1981-83
5-1    Summary of Implementation Arrangements
5-2    Project Schedule
5-3    Design Requirements for Subprojects
6-1    Project Cost Estimates, by subprojects
6-2    Detailed Financing Plan
6-3    Maturities and Grace Periods
6-4    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7-1    Summary of Subprojects Financial Results - 1990
7-2    Subprojects Financial and Economic Rates of Return
7-3    Projected Prices of MDI
7-4    Structure of MDI Production Costs
7-5    MDI Subproject - Financial Analysis - Summary of Major Operating
Cost Assumptions.
7-6    Summary of Companies Projected Financial Statements.
8-1    Sensitivity Analysis.
8-2    Project Net Impact on Convertible Currency Trade Balance in 1990
Map - IBRD 18757R



- iv -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                        Title, Date and Authors
A   -    Hungary - Chemical Sector Review World Bank - November 9, 1984
(Report No. 5330-HU).
B   -    Annotation on the Activity of the Hungarian Pharmaceutical
Industry - Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers -
October 1984.
C   -    Production Investments Feasibility and Market Studies (including
capital cost estimates, implementation schedules and cost/benefit
analysis).
D   -    Arthur D. Little - Review of the Feasibility Study of BVK MDI
Project -October 1984.
E   -    Investments in Research and Development.
F   -    Companies Financial Statements - Past and Projected.
G   -    Terms of Reference for the Proposed Studies.



I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Hungary has requested Bank financing for a Fine
Chemicals Project to assist in the implementation of its strategy to reori-
ent the industry towards fine and speciality chemicals based on intenisive
research and development (R&D) activities and which show good potential for
increased convertible currency earnings and savings. The Project consists
of four major complementary components: (a) funding of a package of priori-
ty investments to increase or initiate production of pharmaceuticals, poly-
urethane systems, plant protection chemicals, specialty resins (ion-
exchange resins) and intermediates for fine chemicals; (b) increasing the
capacity and upgrading the facilities of selected key research and develop-
ment organizations; (c) fnading pre-marketing expenses (clinical trials and
registration) for a small number of Hungarian products in selected OECD
countries to permit their eventual sales on a pilot basis under Hungarian
brand names; and (d) studies and training to support the above investments,
identify further development potentials in the Hungarian chemical industry,
prepare a restructuring program for the fertilizer industry, and improve
the strategic planning capabilities of the Hungarian chemical enterprises.
1.02       The financing requirements of the Project, including physical
contingencies and price escalation, are estimated at US$311 million.
Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$132 million. The proposed Bank
loan of US$73 million would cover 23Z of total financing requirements and
55% of foreign exchange costs. The balance of US$179 million will be pro-
vided by cofinanciers, from internally generated funds of the Project
enterprises and from resources of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH), the
State Development Bank (SDB) and the Government budget.  The proposed pro-
ject fits well into the Bank lending strategy for the industrial sector in
Hungary of assisting the Government in its pursuit of structural adjust-
ments and technology improvements, with a principal aim of increasing con-
vertible currency earnings or savings in areas where the country has
comparative advantages.
1.03       The proposed project was appraised in September 1984 by Ms. D.
Babelon (Chief), and Messrs. R. Heath, D. Caplin, R. Batstone and S.
Thiyagarajan of the Bank, and Messrs. M. Peretz, Y. Ziv and W. Firth
(consultants).
II. THE CHEMICAL SECTOR AND THE FINE CHEMICALS INDUSTRY
A.   Introduction
2.01       The Country Industrial Sector Strategy Paper, which was prepared
by the Bank and discussed with the Hungarian authorities in late 1983
(Report No. 4778-HU of January 1984), identified the chemical subsector as
a key subsector which had grown rapidly within the industrial sector and
which exhibited clear growth potential with good prospects for exports and
import substitution.



- 2 -
2.02       In April/May 1984, a Chemical Sector Review mission of the Bank
visited Hungary to review the status of the industry, identify its develop-
ment potential and major constraints and define the rationale for Bank
assistance. The mission coincided with the start of preparatory work for
the next five-year plan (1986-90), which is scheduled for approval by the
end of 1985. The discussions with the review mission and its conclusions
contributed to the definition of the future strategy in the chemical sub-
sector and for establishing priorities for funding during the 1986-1990
plan period.   A detailed analysis of the subsector is presented in the
report of the mission (Report No. 5330-HU of November 9, 1984 - Project
File, Reference A).
2.03       The review confirmed that the chemical industry should now focus
on developing higher value downstream chemicals as the main subsector stra-
tegy for the next five-year plan.  In the course of the review, the Bank
analyzed the investment proposals of the various enterprises and assisted
the authorities in prioritizing them. This process resulted in the selec-
tion of key investments which the Bank could assist in financing through
various projects and in the deletion of a number of other projects or their
postponement pending further studies. The review also pointed out the need
for rehabilitation of certain branches of the fertilizer industry and for
further studies in other branches of the chemical industry.
B. The Chemical Subsector
2.04        Between 1960 and 1980 the chemical subsector was the fastest
growing subsector of the manufacturing industry and the second largest in
terms of industrial production value, value added and productive fixed
assets.   In 1982, it accounted for 13% of Hungarian exports and 20% of
imports. Until 1980, growth was essentially based on the development of
bulk chemicals in the fertilizer, refining, petrochemical and plastics
industries and generally, on the production of commodity chemicals for
domestic as well as export markets.  Since 1979, however, subsector growth
has significantly slowed down as a result of lower refinery throughput,
world overcapacity in fertilizer and petrochemicals, the worldwide
recession and the Hungarian government's stabilization policies.  Key data
on the past growth and structure of production, value added and trade in
the chemical subsector are presented in Annex 2-1, tables 1 through 5.
2.05      The Chemical Sector Review mission concluded that, beyond plant
capacities required to meet domestic demand, Hungary holds no medium- or
long-term advantage in capital-intensive branches of the chemical indus-
try. The main conclusions of the mission with respect to future strategies
are summarized below:
(a) efforts should be intensified tc diversify the industry away
from bulk petrochemicals towards higher value-added fine and
speciality chemicals and their intermediates (pharmaceuti-
cals, plant protection chemicals, paints, cosmetics, speci-
ality rubbers, speciality resins), in which Hungary has a
competitive advantage due to the large availability of qua-
lified but inexpensive technical, engineering and research
staff, and a systematic effort should be undertaken at iden-
tifying and promoting such fields;



- 3 -
(b)  in the immediate future, within these branches, priority
should be given to those activities which can, or have the
potential to improve substantially the convertible currency
balance, either through export generation or through import
substitution of Intermediate products (particularly in the
pharmaceutical and pesticides industries);
(c)  Hungary holds no long-term advantage in the production of
basic petrochemicals and fertilizers for exports.   These
iridustries are highly capital-intensive, yet the count;y is
not a producer of the type of equipment required, nor does
it have access to cheap raw materials.   No new capacities
should therefore be built if a substantial portion of the
output is to be exported; efforts should rather be directed
at downstream processing of the existing surplus of petro-
chemical raw materials into higher value-added intermediates
and fine chemicals and polymers into plastic products for
the domestic market;
(d)  in  the  medium  term  measures  shonld  be  undertaken  to
restructure the fertilizer industry. In the ammonia indus-
try, there is an obvious need to replace obsolete highly
energy-intensive capacity for the local market, but the
location, number and size of the new plant(s) still require
further study. The phosphate industry is currently based on
low-analysis   Single   Super   Phosphate   (SSP)   and   on
nitrophosphates.  AK though there are tentative plans to
produce phosphoric acid in Hungary for Triple Super
Phosphate (TSP) production, this is of uncertain economic
viability. The direction that the phosphate industry should
take also requires careful prior study; and
(e)  all  branches  of  the  chemical  industry  should  continue
efforts at reducing the use of materials and energy, parti-
cularly in the refining and fertilizer industries.
2.06       The Bank should seek to support the proposed strategy through a
continuous dialogue backed by a series of operations in the subsector.
These would include: (a) the proposed Fine Chemicals Project,fwhich would
accelerate the reorientation of the chemical industry towards higher value-
added products; support associated R&D activities; and strengthen chemical
enterprises' strategic planning and marketing orientation; (b) a possible
Fertilizer Restructuring Project which would address the questions of opti-
mal size, location and technology of the fertilizer industry and distribu-
tion aspects; (c) the Industrial Restructuring Program, being developed in
collaboration with the Bank, which includes a special sub-program address-
ing current bottlenecks to further development of the plastics processing
industry for the domestic market; (d) a possible second industrial energy
savings project wh'ch would continue to support energy conservation efforts
in the chemical industry. Finally, under the Fine Chemicals Project, pros-
pects for further developments in other branches of the fine chemicals
industry (such as detergents, paints and varnishes and their intermediates)
will be studied, to form the basis of the investment program for implemen-
tation during the second half of the next five-year plan period
(1986-1990).



-4-
C. The Fine Chemicals Industry
2.07        Fine chemicals production in Hungary consists essentially of
pharmaeuticals, plant protection chemicals and other chemicals such as
paints and varnishes, detergents and speciality resins.   Together, the
value of total output of fine chemicals in 1982 amounted to about US$ 0.9
billion, or about 45% of total output value of the chemical sector (exclud-
ing refineries and town gas production and plastics and rubber process-
ing).  Pharmaceuticals (US$ 0.4 billion) were by far the most important
branch, followed by plant protection chemicals (US$ 0.2 billion) and other
fine chemicals (US$ 0.3 billion).
2.08       (a)  Pharmaceuticals.  The pharmaceutical industry in Hungary is
over 100 years old and has a long established innovation and export tradi-
tion and a good international reputation for producing quality products.
It is the world 's ninth largest exporter of pharmaceuticals. The industry
exports about balf of its total output, or Ft 13.1 billion in 1983 (4Z of
total Hungarian exports), of which 42Z (Ft 5.2 billion, or USS 115 million)
we-a directed to Convertible Currency (CC) areas. Pharmaceutical exports
represent 20% of convertible currency exports of the chemical industry.
Past and future trends in world pharmaceutical consumption, production and
trade are summarized in paras 3.01 through 3.04.
2.09       Between 1970 and 1980, Hungarian output grew by an average of
6.2% per year. Exports to CC areas grew at an average rate of 17.4% per
-nmum, thus showing increased penetration of these markets.   Since 1980,
however, CC exports have grown only by 6% to 7Z per year, as a large share
of these exports have gone to institutional markets of developing countries
whose increasing economic problems have impaired their ability to order and
pay for the drugs.
2.10      The reason for Hungary's success lies in several factors besides
its long tradition:   (a) expenditures by enterprises in R&D are signifi-
cant; and significant state funding for basic and applied research is
available through the Central Development Program for pharmaceuticals,
pesticides and intermediates (para 2.32); (b) the six pharmaceutical compa-
nies are organized into a manufacturers'  association which effectively
influences the direction of spending of R&D funds allocated for basic
research by the Government to the companies themselves or to research
institutes; (c) companies compete in development of new processes and/or
new products; and (d) the industry has established an export marketing
organization, MEDIMPEX, which si.nce July 1982 has been the marketing arm of
the companies themselves which share its operating costs in proportion to
their export sales.  In summary, the ineustry has been able to reach its
present position thanks to an organization whLch is effectively rationaliz-
ing all stages of R&D while competing on product and process research.
2.11       The current pattern of pharmaceuticals exports is shown in the
table on the following page.



Pharmaceutical Exports-1983
(US$ millions)
Convertible Currency Exports
To CMEA      Developed   Developing   Total CC    Exports
Countries     Countries   Countries    Exports       Total
Actlve
Ingredients          -             65           27          92          32
Finished
Formulations     175              4           19         198         198
Total         175             69           46         115         290
While the overwhelming proportion of formulations are exported to CMEA
countries, exports to CC areas are essentially of bulk active ingredients.
Almost all CC exports of finished formulations are to developing coun-
tries. MEDIMPEX maintains agencies in 18 LDCs, including Thailand, Syria,
Egypt, Kenya and Ivory Coast.   In a few countries (India, Pakistan,
Bangladesh and Nigeria), it has established joint manufac_.,ing and market-
ing operations with fully fledged marketing forces of detail men.  The
majority of CC sales of formulations, however, s main of standard drugs
through public sector tenders issued by LDCs' central purchasing authori-
ties.  Over 70% of CC sales of active ingredients are to developed coun-
tries, in bulk form.   For the exploitation of an innovative Hungarian
active ingredient, the practice, at present. is for Hungarian companies to
enter into a royalty agreement with a foreign partner (usually a multina-
tional); the foreign partner pays for the clinical trials in its home coun-
try and other markets where it is given exclusive marketing rights.  It
subsequently registers the product in its name and markets the formulated
product using its own brand name. The Project incremental output will be
marketed using these existing networks and practices (para 3.08).
2.12        Hungary's comparative advantage and future prospects for the
industry have been analyzed in a study (Project File, Reference B) prepared
in the framework of the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan
2397-HU). Based on the review of the report, the future strategy for the
industry was extensively discussed during the sectoral and appraisal mis-
sions with the Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers as
well as with the management and staff of each of the six pharmaceutical
companies. The major conclusions of that review were that the industry has
a much higher potential to earn convertible currencies.   This is to be
achieved by: (i) shifting the production pattern substantially towards
higher value products, i.e. less bulk drugs and active ingredients sales
and more formulations into dosage forms; (ii) the industry focusing its
research efforts more towards the development of original products and less
on process development for already existing drugs (except when processes
developed in Hungary have significantly lower costs than standard
processes); (iii) increasing penetration of developed countries markets,
which constitute the major markets, particularly for new drugs; (iv) focus-
ing R&D on leading growth areas worldwide, such as anti-infectives, cardio-
vasculars, cancer therapy agents and psychotropics (para 3.03); and (iv)
developing  the local production  of intermediates when  economic.   The



-6-
investment program to be financed under the Project will assist in meeting
these objectives (paras 3.05 through 3.09 and 5.03 through 5.07).
2.13      Another important conclusion of the review is that while there is
still significant scope for increasing exports of standard and bulk drugs
(para 3.03), in the long term the risks will increase for the industry for
the following reasons: (a) markets for tenders for standard formulations
and for s_.-andard bulk active ingredients are not secure markets because
they are governed exclusively by price competition as long as the products
meet acceptable quality standards; Hungary's position will be increasingly
challenged by new low-cost producers (para 3.03) which are aggressively
approaching these same markets; (b) developing countries do not potentially
represent markets capable of sustaining steady growth of Hungarian pharma-
ceutical sales as budgetary and foreign exchange restrictions may substan-
tially affect their ability to order and pay for drugs, as evidenced by
recent experience; (c) increasingly, t-.e largest LDCs are attempting to
establish their own industry; and (d) finally, OECD countries represent
two-thirds of world pharmaceutical markets and are virtually the only
markets for innovative products.
2.14       Reliance on sales of bulk active ingredients to developed coun-
tries also has the disadvantage that: (i) while the Hungarian industry
avoids the substantial costs of registration and marketing promotion and
development in OECD countries, by so doing it also foregoes high value-
added and profits associated with the sales of brand name formulations,
particularly for original products; and (ii) they do not benefit from
brand-name protection: formulations sold under brand names not only estab-
lish a market position for themselves which outlasts patent protection, but
also strengthen the market position of other brand name products sold by
the same company.
2.15      A balanced strategy for the future development of the Hungarian
pharmaceutical industry thus calls for the industry to explore alternative
ways to market its innovations in OECD countries under its own or jointly
owned brand name. So far, action has been hampered by the industry's lack
of experience in direct marketing in developed countries, by lack of access
to foreign exchange to finance the clinical trials which are necessary to
achieve registration (these are briefly described in Annex 2-2), by unsuit-
able terms of available credit, and by formulation facilities not meeting
international Good Manuf-cturing Practices (GMP) standards.  GMP standards
are imposed by most foreign regulatory authorities before permitting the
entry of foreign formulated pharmaceutical preparations into their domestic
markets.   Under the Project, the Bank will finance the installation of
formulation facilities meeting GMP standards, to come on-stream in 1988, in
the four largest pharmaceutical companies (paras 5.03 through 5.07).
2.16       It is clear that such a change in marketing strategy needs to be
very gradual and geared to the companies' ability to assume the associated
financial burden and risks.  But it is important that the industry start
experimenting on a limited scale with the various avenues open to market
brand  name  formulations  in  OECD  markets  particularly  for  original
products. Depending on the countries, the type of products and the options
available, the marketing of brand name formulations can be approached in a
variety of alternative ways, including: (a) by entering into joint ventures
with companies which are willing to use their own existing marketing net-



works for the sale of Hungarian formulations under Hungarian or jointly
owned brand names; (b) by acquisition of companies with such existing net-
works; or (c) by setting up their own marketing forces. This last option,
however, should be assessed wit' care, since it entails substantial costs
and risks. In all cases, the negotiating power of the Hungarian companies
would be considerably strengthened if they were in a position to pay for
the drugs' pre-marketing expenses (clinical trials and registration
expenses). Through the Project, the Bank would, on a pilot basis, assist
the Hungarian industry in funding pre-marketing clinical trials and
registration expenses for a limited number of products in selected OECD
countries (paras 5.22 through 5.26).
2.17      (b)  Plant Protection Chemicals.  In contrast to the pharmaceuti-
cal industry, the development of the pesticide industry started only in the
early 1960s, in response to rapid growth in domestic demand. In the early
1970s, production for exports to CMEA countries became important, particu-
larly under the Agrochemical Agreement with the Soviet Union. Since 1980,
production has increased very rapidly; between 1980 and 1983, production in
constant prices increased by 136% and exports to CMEA countries by 260%.
The total turnover of the pesticide industry in 1984 is estimated at about
Ft 10 billion (US$220 million). About 602 of total production is consumed
domestically and 40% is exported.  Seventy-five percent of exports are to
CMEA countries and 25% to CC areas (US$24 million in 1983). Domestic pro-
duction satisfies about 75% of domestic demand. The balance, consisting of
specialities not produced in Hungary, is imported mostly from CC coun-
tries.   Today, over 400 different products of all types are on sale in
Hungary, imported as well as domestically produced.
2.18       Production of plant protection chemicals and their intermediates
is spread among ten companies. Production of these chemicals, particularly
herbicides and fungicides, enjoyed increased popularity in the late 1970s
in response to increased demand and as an avenue for diversification. The
structure of production and exports reflects this basic orientation--essen-
tially commodity chemicals and chemicals produced under license from large
foreign corporations for marketing in Hungary and in the CMEA markets
(80% of exports to CMEA markets are formulated chemicals produced under
license). Exports to CC areas, however, consist primarily of active ingre-
dients produced in excess of domestic requirements, which are formulated
abroad by purchasing corporations and sold under their own brand names. Of
these active ingredients, 40% are commodity chemicals and 60% are produced
under cooperation agreements and incorporate either intermediates produced
in Hungary or Hungarian process developments.  Production of plant protec-
tion chemicals, however, is still heavily based on imported intermediates
and active substances.
2.19        The Government's policy is to encourage increased exports to
CC areas of plant protection chemicals or intermediates incorporating
original Hungarian developments. However, one of the major constraints to
increased CC exports today is that domestic toxicological tests are not
accepted on the major developed markets as the local testing facilities do
not meet international Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) standards.   Such
tests are generally required on all products, existing as well as innova-
tive.  Since their foreign cost is high, most companies cannot afford to
repeat them abroad. Hungarian companies have thus increasing difficulties
in meeting tender requirements even for standard products.



2.20       The Government strategy for this branch consequently focuses on:
(a) upgrading domestic testing facilities to meet GLP standards and to per-
form the whole range of tests required, so that the testing organization
(NEVIKI) may be put on the list of approved facilities by foreign registra-
tion authorities; (b) developing the local production of intermediates to
replace imported ones; and (c) focussing available investment funds on com-
panies which have stepped up their R&D efforts on original products with
good market potential on the domestic as well as export markets. Such a
strategy would be supported under the project through the funding of
investments for the production of selected plant protection chemicals and
intermediates (paras 5.08), testing facilities (para 5.20) and studies
(para 5.27).
2.21      (c)  Other Fine Chemicals.  Total sales in 1982 of fine chemicals
ocher than pharmaceuticals and plant protection chemicals amounted to about
Ft 9.2 million (US$230 million). This category encompasses a wide variety
of products, including paints and varnishes, detergents, cosmetics and
household chemicals, speciality polymers and resins (polyurethane systems,
ion exchange resins, etc.) and photochemicals. Their production is widely
distributed among all chemical enterprises, although each product type is
normally produced by one or two companies only.   The Project includes
investments to increase production of MDI and MDI-based polyurethane sys-
tems (para 5.09), ion exchange resins (para 5.10), and intermediates for
detergents (para 5.11). Market prospects for these products in the world
and in Hungary are described further in Chapter III. The Project will also
include funding for studies aimed at identifying further prospects for
development of the fine chemicals industry, particularly during the second
half of the coming five-year plan period (1986-1990) (para 5.27).
D.   Pricing
2.22      (a)  Producer Prices.  In 1980, Hungary introduced the concept of
competitive prices", by which, with few exceptions, producer prices
(prices paid to producers and by producers) of raw materials, intermediates
and finished products are linked to world market prices, either directly
(actual export and import prices), or indirectly through specific rules and
regulations.    These  prices  apply  irrespective  of  whether  goods  are
purchased/sold on the world market for convertible currency, or from/to
CMEA countries for transferable rubles, or purchased/sold on the domestic
market. This pricing system is aimed at simulating market conditions in an
environment of still limited competition among domestic producers and from
imports.
2.23      For basic and intermediate chemicals, producer prices are deter-
mined by either one of three rules: (1) if a product is imported, domestic
prices are set at the level of actual or calculated imported prices (CIF)
from convertible currency areas (plus customs duties)l/; (ii) if that
material is produced domestically and if more than 5% of-total production
is exported, the domestic price will be set at the export price and will be
valid for all other enterprises which produce the same product, but sell
1/   Custom duties range from 0% for pharmaceuticals to 0% to 5X for
plant protection chemicals, 4Z to 102 for fertilizer, and 6% to 122
for other chemicals.



only on the domestic market; and (iii) if a product is normally not traded
but produced and consumed in the country (e.g. ethylene) the domestic price
will be based on prices prevailing in the nearest, realistically accessible
foreign market.   For finished chemical products, the principles of price
fixing are essentially the same. However, differences in quality, diversi-
ty in product mixes and trading conditions make the assessment of equiva-
lent world prices difficult.   For this reason, an additional regulation
requires that for each product group profitability of domestic sales be no
higher than for export sales.  In order to simplify the present, rather
complex regulations, which in some cases act as a disincentive to export
(for that reason numerous exceptions have been granted since 1980),
Resolution 1007/1984 of the Council of Ministers approving the new package
of economic reforms now permits enterprises to freely set prices between
the equivalent FOB and CIF prices.
2.24     (b)  Consumer Prices.  In 1980, sales of the chemical industry to
final consumers represented only 13% of total consumption of chemicals, the
rest being sold as materials and intermediates to other producers, includ-
ing 23% to agricultural producers (essentially fertilizers, pesticides and
plastics packaging materials). For products directly sold to final consum-
ers, prices fluctuate according to producer prices, plus margins to trad-
ers.   While farm prices of fertilizers are subsidized, the subsidy on
pesticides was eliminated in 1984. Consumer prices for drugs are also sub-
sidized, as a matter of social policy. Since 1977, health care has ceased
to be governed by insurance and is now considered by the State to be the
right of every Hungarian citizen. Consequently, the Hungarian public pays
a nominal fee for the pharmaceuticals purchased (between US$0.5+ and 0.10
equivalent per prescription). Producer prices are negotiated between pro-
ducing enterprises and GYOGYERT (the Pharmaceutical Wholesale Trading and
Distribution Company), acting on behalf of the Ministry of Health, with the
Board of Materials and Prices also involved in the negotiations. Prices
paid to the enterprises by GYOGYERT are based on world prices for the same
or similar products. The difference between producer and consumer prices
is paid to GYOGYERT out of the Government budget.   This consumer nominal
reimbursement fee system has been functioning for several years. There is
no evidence that almost free access to drugs has led to large overconsump-
tion. In fact for ethical drugs (requiring a prescription), which account
for 70% of total drug sales, and in most therapeutic classes, there is some
indication that underprescribing occurs.  Doctors are under pressure to
underprescribe because a computer check is kept of their prescribing acti-
vities and in the event of overprescribing, the Ministry of Health contacts
them to seek an explanation.
2.25      Continued prescription of low-priced obsolescent drugs, however,
is affecting the enterprises'  profitability of domestic sales.   By law,
they must continue to supply the local market with these drugs until they
are removed from the register by the appropriate Ministry of Health Commit-
tee (which in 1983 removed only 4 drugs from a list exceeding 1,200
items).   Production of these drugs, however, is uneconomic because it is
tying up production capacity for a large number of low-price drugs produced
on a small scale and is resulting in losses for the companies. Under the
Project, assurances were obtained from the Government that: either (a)
obsolescent drugs will be promptly removed from the list of drugs which the
companies have the obligation to produce as soon as substitutes are avail-
able from either domestic production or imports; or (b) if their continued



- 10 -
production is required to ensure stability of drug supplies, the companies
will be compensated for losses incurred.
2.26        In order to permit the application of the above principles,
assurances were obtained that: (i) by July 1985 the Government will appoint
a commission under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Health, with repre-
sentatives from the companies, to review the procedures mechanisms and
criteria for deletion of obsolescent drugs and to establish compensation
criteria and mechanisms for those drugs which are maintained on the compul-
sory production list; (ii) the commission will present its recommendations
to the Government and to the Bank by the end of December 1985; (iii)   the
Government will afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the
proposed regulations; and (iv) these regulations will become effective no
later than January 1987.
E.   Marketing and Distribution
2.27      Domestic as well as foreign trade remains largely concentrated in
the hands of a number of specialized companies.   Foreign trade for the
chemical industry is mostly carried out by four organizations - CHEMOLIMPEX
(for most chemical products except pharmaceuticals), MEDIMPEX (pharmaceuti-
cals), PHARMATRADE (medicinal plants) and MINERATIMPEX (petroleum crude and
refinery products).   In addition, CHEMOCOMPLEX deals with the import and
export of chemical plant equipment. MEDIMPEX is the jointly-owned foreign
trade company of the pharmaceutical enteiprises, which cover its operating
costs in proportion to their share in export sales (para 2.10). The other
trade companies usually operate on a commission basis. The above-mentioned
organizations no longer have exclusive rights to foreign trade.  Increas-
ingly, profit-sharing arrangements are being worked out with manufacturers
and may involve joint offices or joint ventures.   All companies have the
right to apply for foreign trade rights if they wish to do so. The Govern-
ment has also introduced an additional element of competition into foreign
trade operations by setting up four general profile trade companies.
These, however, have so far made few inroads into the rather specialized
business of trading chemical companies.
2.28       Domestic trade has also been substantially decentralized since
manufacturers are allowed to sell directly to users.  In fact, large con-
sumers of inorganic chemicals and petrochemicals usually obtain their
requirements directly from local manufacturers. Small volume purchases can
be obtained from VEGYTEK, the major wholesale trading company of the chemi-
cal industry.   Until 1980, the distribution of agrochemicals (fertilizer
and plant protection chemicals) was almost exclusively in the hands of
AGROTRUST, a specialized wholesaling and distribution trust. In 1980, the-
trust was broken up into  17 county-based wholesale companies (without
exclusive rights on their territories), which today form the   so-called
AGROKER network. Agrochemicals are also traded by 17 Farmers' Cooperative
Trade Companies (TSKER's) which are in direct competition with AGROKER.
The domestic distribution of locally produced as well as imported
pharmaceuticals, however, remains the exclusivity of GYOGYERT, the pharma-
ceutical wholesale company. GYOGYERT supplies directly to 19 pharmaceutic-
al centers (one for each county, plus Budapest) and 180 health institutes.
Local  pharmacies  obtain  their  supplies  from  their respective   County
Pharmaceutical Center.



- 11 -
2.29       Distribution Margins.  Margins allowed to wholesalers are fixed
by the Government and, with the exception of fertilizer, appear sufficient
to cover the  trading costs plus some profit.   VEGYTEK's markup, for
instance, covers its operating overheads plus a profit of about 5% on turn-
over.   Margins allowed on plant protection chemicals are sufficient to
cover costs and pro-ide an incentive to traders to promote sales. Whole-
sale margins for pharmaceuticals are also sufficient to cover distribution
costs and allow GYOGYERT a reasonable profit on its sales. A review of the
level of trading margins for fertilizers would be carried out in connection
with the proposed fertilizer study (para 5.27).
F.   Research and Development
2.30      Research and development activities in the chemical industry are
well developed in Hungary. In 1981, a total of US$69 million was spent on
chemical R&D, representing close to 8% of total value added in the chemical
industry.   Over 85% of this amount was spent on applied research and
development. R&D efforts focus on process and product development in phar-
maceuticals (42% of funds spent), plant protection and other fine chemicals
(37%) and their intermediates (whenever technology is not available from
outside) (21%).   Total staff employed in chemical R&D was close to 6,900
including over 2,300 scientists and engineers.
2.31      Salaries of research workers in Hungary (including social charges
paid by the enterprises) are about one-tenth that of West European sala-
ries.  Since labor costs normally account for 50% to 70% of RJD expenses,
this low-cost R&D is seen as an important element of Hungary's competitive-
ness in R&D-intensive industries, particularly pharmaceuticals, plant pro-
tection  and other fine chemicals.    Pharmaceutical  companies spend on
average 5Z to 6% of their turnover on R&D. If salaries of research workers
were adjusted to West European levels, this percentage would be equivalent
to 20% of turnover.   Though, admittedly, Hungarian pharmaceutical sales
have a lower value-added than sales of the average Transnational Company
(TNC) because of the larger proportion of bulk and standard drugs, the
level of R&D spending compares relatively well with R&D spending by TNCs.
TNCs involved in pharmaceuticals spend 10-15% of their pharmaceutical turn-
over on R&D.  R&D spending on plant protection chemicals varies substan-
tially according to companies  (from 1% to 4% of turnover).   Research
workers in Hungary are sometimes able to considerably supplement their
incomes when research work is successful as they normally share profits or
royalties from license or patent sales for commercial development.   The
quality of R&D work is high as evidenced by the number of patents filed
each year (about 1,000), the new products marketed each year (25-30 new
specialties in the pharmaceutical industry), increasingly original products
(one to three per year), worldwide cross-licensing and, generally,
sustained sales growth of the fine chemicals industry.
2.32        Enterprises account for 80% of R&D expenses (including work
commissioned from research institutes) and 71% of all research engineers
and scientists.  Enterprises are being encouraged to be increasingly res-
ponsible for their own R&D.   They are allowed to treat all their R&D
expenses as oporating costs and rewards to research workers are not taxable
as other salary increases. All chemical enterprises are required to con-
stitute a technological development fund in proportion to value added (from
1% to 12%, depending on branches).   This regulation aims at securing a



- 12 -
minimum level of R&D expenditure in the industry. A portion of this fund
is put 'n a central fund, the allocation of which depends on either the
Ministry of Industry, the Office of Technological Development (OMFB), the
Ministry of Agriculture or other ministries for funding of specific
programs considered priority.  These funds may be allocated to research
institutes or to compaL'es for research projects consistent with broad
objectives defined in Central Development Programs. A special feature of
pharmaceutical R&D is that all funds contributed by pharmaceutical compa-
nies are al'ocated to the industry itself, either to the companies or to
its research institutes.
2.33      Seven applied research institutes are also providing support to
chemical enterprises.  The two most important are the Research Institute
for Pharmaceuticals (GYKI) (para 4.04 and Annex 4-2), and the Research
Institute for Heavy Chemical Industries (NEVIKI) (para 4.04 and Annex 4-2),
which increasingly specialize in testing of plant protection chemicals.
These two institutes will be supported under the Project (paras 5.19 and
through 5.20).  Since 1980, all these institutes are independent entities
operating on a profit basis (except for GYKI, which is jointly owned by the
pharmaceutical companies).   This decision was motivated by the need to
avoid past duplications in basic research work with the budget-financed
institutes of the Academy of Science (which specialize in fundamental
research) and to reinforce the orientation of the industrial applied
research institutes towards meeting the needs of the industry. Presently,
research institutes are competing in a number of fields for contract work
from the companies (particularly in plant protection chemicals and their
intermediates).  Fees charged to enterprises for contracted work normally
account for 60% to 80% cf total funding of the institutes, and the balance
is from royalties or profit sharing in successfully developed processes,
products or ventures and from funds allocated by the Government in the
framework of Central Development Programs.
III. MARKETS, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Pharmaceuticals
3.01      World Consumption, Production, Trade and Major Trends.  In 1980,
world consumption of pharmaceuticals stood at US$81.6 billion, with OECD
countries accounting for 64% of the total, centrally planned economies for
about 20%, and developing countries for about 16%.  Production of pharma-
ceuticals is similarly concentrated in industrialized countries, with 85%
of total production being shared between Western Europe (41%), the USA
(26%) and Japan (18%). World trade is dominated by about 200 transnational
companies (TNC's), operating mainly out of six major producing and export-
ing countries - USA, West Germany, Switzerland, United Kingdom, France and
Italy; between them these six countries account for over 70% of world
trade, which in 1980 amounted to US$13.9 billion (Annex 3-1). While devel-
oped markets accounted for over 95% of total exports, they also absorbed
two-thirds of world imports.  The share of developing countries in total
imports increased from US$1.9 billion in 1974 to 4.5 billion in 1980, or
about 32% of total world imports. With total exports of US$290 million in
1983, Hungary, though being the ninth largest exporter in the world,
accounted for less than 2.3% of world trade.  Exports to CMEA countries



-13 -
represented 60% of Hungarian exports; Hungarian exports to CC markets
(US$115 million in 1983) accounted for only about 1% of total CC world
trade in pharmaceuticals.
3.02       Pharmaceutical sales worldwide have grown, in constant terms, on
average at about 10.5% per year between 1970 and 1980 (about 15% in current
terms), but growth has slowed down noticeably since the late 1970's. This
phenomenon is attributed in part to the general economic slowdown, the
resulting difficulties of many developing countries in sustaining past
growth in drug imports, and attempts by many governments to keep down
rapidly escalating costs of health care.   Other contributing factors
include: (i) the more stringent and time consuming regulatory environment,
which has tended to slow down the introduction of new, generally high-
priced drugs; (ii) downward pressures on prices brought about by the
increasing use of generics (particularly encouraged by public health
services for the reasons mentioned above); and (iii) increased competition
in cost-saving process developments for the manufacturing of existing
drugs. Uncertainties regarding future growth of drug use in LDCs make pro-
jections of future sales highly speculative and result in very wide varia-
tions in available estimates.    A conservative estimate would  project
average annual growth during the 1980's at between 4% and 6% in real terms
for both world consumption and trade (Annex 3-1).
3.03        Prospects, however, vary substantially among types of drugs
(generic or specialities) and therapeutic classes. Continued fast growth
is expected in sales of antUinfectives (particularly antf!iotics), psycho-
tropics, cardiovasculars, cancer therapy agents and drugs related to the
treatment of old age diseases. An estimate of future drug sales by major
therapeutic classes is presented in Annex 3-2.   Another major trend is
expected to be the growing market for generics, for reasons mentioned in
para 3.02.   Competition for this market, however,  is intensifying in
parallel with market growth, with the emergence of new exporters (China,
Korea) and the creation by some of the TNCs themselves of generics
divisions.
3.04        The assessment of market prospects for specific products is
especially difficult in the pharmaceutical industry for a number or rea-
sons:  (i) demand may shift rapidly from one product to the other as new,
better drugs constantly appear on the market; (ii) commercial secrecy in
this very competitive industry prevents outside assessment of competitors'
direction of R&D efforts and future production plans, which change quickly
in response to the outcome of R&D efforts and market conditions; (iii) the
multipurpose nature of production facilities and the batch technologies
permit quick shifts of production capacity from one product to the other
within the same or different therapeutic classes. This flexibility, toge-
ther with the generally low capital intensity of pharmaceuticals produc-
tion, makes the general industrial issue of production capacity and minimum
plant sizes secondary in the assessment of market prospects.
3.05       Markets for Incremental Project Output.  As mentioned in para
2.12, the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry has analyzed its future strate-
gy and the ways it can best maintain, consolidate and, if possible, improve
its position in the changing environment of world pharmaceutical markets.
On the one hand, the industry needs to modernize and expand its manufactur-
ing facilities and bring them, especially the formulation plants, up to GMP



- 14 -
standards.  As discussed below, the subprojects, which constitute most of
the companies' investment programs for the coming 5 years, will allow the
companies to maintain and expand their exports of generic drugs and of
active ingredients in therapeutic classes with the best growth prospects.
In parallel, the industry will start approaching the brand-name speciality
market of developed countries so that in the long run it can spread its
market risks more evenly (para 2.16).
3.06        Although the Project facilities are essentially multi-purpose,
the companies have provided detailed production plans and market estimates
for the specific products they intend to market during the first years of
plant operation.   The various subprojects included under the Project are
expected to produce a wide variety of drugs in many different therapeutic
groups (17 active ingredients and 47 Formulated products). All these drugs
are registered in Hungary and in most other countries of intended sales, or
registration procedures are well underway in these countries and are
expected to be completed by the time the Project facilities come on
stream. The patent and license position of the proposed products have been
examined by the companies, which have given formal declarations that none
of the subprojects under consideration infringe any other company's or
organization's existing patents nor do they conflict with the provisions of
any license agreements in force. These declarations as well as details on
production plans, markets and market analysis on each product are available
in the Project File, Reference C. The estimated distribution of increment-
al sales by categories of products (therapeutic classes), types of product
(active ingredients or formulations), intended markets and patent situation
is summarized in Annexes 3-2 through 3-5.
3.07       An analysis of the structure of incremental sales derived from
the Project shows that: (a) the subprojects are essentially export-orient-
ed since close to 90% of the output will be exported.  About 72% of the
exports will go to CC countries, with the remaining 28% going to CMEA coun-
tries. Experts of active ingredients will represent 35% of total planned
incremental CC exports.   These are essentially to developed countries,
while exports of formulated products (accounting for the remaining 65%)
will be mostly to developing countries. The high proportion of formulated
products in total exports reflect the current strategy of increasing value
added of Hungarian pharmaceutical exports (para 2.12). Over two-thirds of
projected sales of formulations will be in the form of injections and 15%
in the form of capsules, which are considered to be more difficult to
manufacture than vials,  tablets and other dosage forms and thus fetch
higher prices and are less exposed to competition from local industries in
the  countries  of  intended  sales.  Exported  formulated  products  will
be primarily generics (85%), while exported active ingredients (for
formulation abroad) will mainly be original products (53%) and then
generics (26%).   While the proposed products are spread among. a large
number   of   therapeutic   classes,   emphasis   is  on  anti-infectives,
cardiovasculars, vitamins and veterinary products.   In each one of these
categories, however, incremental Project sales represent a minute share of
present and projected world needs and trade, as shown in Annexes 3-1 and
3.2.
3.08       It is expected that all incremental Project production will be
marketed using the strategies and channels developed for present exports
(para 2.11).  Formulated products for export to developing countries will



- 15 -
be through public tenders, local distributors, and, in countries where
MEDIMPEX has developed them, joint marketing ventures.  Sales of formulated
products to developed countries (about 21Z of formulated sales) would be
through wholesalers or foreign partners.  Sales of active ingredients are
expected to be through the type of joint ventures described in para 2.11
whereby the foreign partner pays for pre-marketing and registration
expenses in its own country and markets the product under its own brand
name.
3.09        Project Impact on Hungarian Pharmaceutical Sales and Exports.
Incremental sales of Hungarian pharmaceutical products from the Project in
1984 prices are estimated at IJS$92 million by 1990, which represents an
increase of 22% over 1983 sales (US$425 million) (Annex 3-3).   Of these
incremental sales, it is expected that about US$67 million will be exported
to CC countries, a 58% increase over 1983 Hungarian exports to these coun-
tries.  These projections are- in line with past growth of both Hungarian
production and exports and -fith the past and projected growth in world
pharmaceutical consumption and trade, which are shown in Annex 3-3. Assum-
ing that the companies are able to maintain present exports in constant
terms, the Project would allow them to keep pace with projected increases
in world consumption and maintain their total share of world CC exports of
about 1%.  This is considered realistic in spite of increased competition
on the generic and active substances markets, which are the traditional
markets for Hungarian production.   MEDIMPEX has established a reputation
for consistently high quality at low prices; Hungarian companies are
especially strong in process development and, by focussing on more sophis-
ticated formulations and products with complicated multi-step processes,
they expect to be able to maintain their competitive position; by providing
funding for their R&D departments, the Project would contribute to rein-
force their innovation capability in this respect as well.   Finally, the
upgrading of their formulation facilities to GMP standards will remove
present constraints to increased formulation sales on international tenders
and other standard drug markets.
B. Plant Protection Chemicals: Pyrethroids
3.10       The consumption of synthethic pyrethroids has grown very rapidly
in the world during the past decade. Their share in total insecticide use
has increased from 3% in 1977 to 182 in 1983 and is expected to reach 30%
to 35% by 1990. In fact, pyrethroids are the only insecticides which are
forecast to show positive growth during the coming years. This is because
traditional products contain larger and less powerful amounts of active in-
gredients and because pyrethroids are relatively harmless to humans and the
environment and can be tailor-made to combat particular pests. Planned in-
cremental  output  under  the  Project  consists  of  230  tons  of  two
intermediates as well as 100 tons of finished products (all for veterinary
use) and 7.5 million aerosols for household use.   The intermediates are
Permethrin acid ethyl ester (DV ester), of which Chinoin, the company in
charge of the pyrethroids subproject, is one of two producers in the world
(and the orly one in Europe) and ethyl chrisantemate, of which Chinoin is
one of four producers in the world (and the only exporter in Europe).
Incremental production of DV ester would amount to 180 tpy, of which 135
tpy would be exported to Western Europe, most of it through the extension
of an existing contract with a British company.   Under this contract, DV
ester is exchanged against the pyrethroid permethrin (for the production of



- 16 -
which it is a major intermediate).   Permethrin  is then formulated in
Hungary for sale on the domestic and CMEA markets.   Since pyrethroids
consumption in CMEA countries is growing very fast, no difficulties are
expected in the marketing of the proposed 100 tons of permethrin-based
products (which are mostly for the CMEA market) nor of the aerosols, for
which there is a large unsatisfied demand in Hungary. Negotiations for the
extension of this contract are well underway. Signature of this contract
will be a condition of disbursements under this subproject.   The other
intermediate, ethyl chrisantemate is the acid component in the manufacture
of other types of pyrethroids (including deltametrin and tetramethrin).
Incremental CC exports (50 tons) would represent about a third of
incremental CC countries requirements by 1990.   Letters of intention to
purchase these additional quantities have been received from several West
European companies.
C. MDI and MDI-based Polyurethane Systems
3.11         Introduction.   The market study for the MDI subproject was
prepared by the Hungarian Chemical Industries Engineering Center (VEGYTERV)
(para 4.04 and Annex 4-2) based on work done by various market research
groups in Hungary. These studies were reviewed by Arthur D. Little, which
also prepared an analysis of world and Western European present and future
MDI market prospects (Project File, Reference D).
3.12         Worldwide MDI Supply/Demand Situation.   Polyurethanes (PUs)
constitute the largest category of cellular plastics and elastomers. They
are the most versatile of all polymeric materials and are produced in a
wide range of forms.   The main applications for MDI-based PUs are:   (i)
from polymeric MDI: rigid foams for insulation purposes in the construction
industry and insulation foams for refrigeration equipment; and (ii) from
pure MDI:   microcellular integral  skin foams (shoe soling), elastomers
(spandex) and PU-based adhesives, sealants and coatings.   Pure MDI is
obtained by a distillation and refining process from the crude product,
leaving polymeric MDI as the residue from distillation. The pure MDI com-
mands a premium of around 25% over polymeric grades.  Pure and polymeric
MDI are normally produced in a proportion of 20% and 80%, respectively.
MDI is generally sold as a component of a system", which consists of all
necessary ingredients as well as the technology to transform them into
foams or other finished products.  Besides MDI, the other major component
of systems are polyols (a polyester or polyether).
3.13      MDI demand has continued to grow strongly over the last decade,
even through the worldwide recession of the early 1980s, as new applica-
tions were developed, exploiting the versatility of MDI-based PUs, foam or
non-foam. Growth slowed down from the annual 10% of the mid-1970s to only
around 5% in the early 1980s.  MDI investment decisions in 1978 and 1982
were nevertheless based on over-optimistic growth forecasts and the world-
wide recession has resulted in surplus capacity. Worldwide capacity utili-
zation, however, is now recovering towards respectable levels (85% in
1983).  Forty-three percent (43%) of total capacity is located in the US,
41X in Western Europe, 9% in Japan and 7% in CMEA countries. There are no
significant differences in price levels between these major markets. Since
MDI is costly to transport (up to US$130 per ton between the US and Western
Europe), shipments between continents only occur occasionally.



- 17 -
3.14      Under the most conservative assumption, consumption would grow by
3% per annum in real terma in Western Europe, based on an assumed 2%
average annual growth in economic activity and on the assumption that no
take-off will occur in some potentially large outlets (automotive body
panels, particle board binders). Under a less conservative assumption, the
5% past growth during the early 1980s will be maintained.   Thus, it is
likely that additional capacity will be required as early as 1988 (date at
which the BVK plant would start operations), or at the latest by 1991. The
projected supply/demand situation in Western Europe is summarized below:
Present and Projected Supply and Demand Situation in Western Europe
(thousand tons per year)
1984       1988        1991       1993
Effective Capacity                     356         386a/       386a/     3
Production at 95% of capacity          338         36J-        36f-      36f-
Consumption b/
. Assuming 3% growth p.a.           298C/        345         377        396
. Assuming 5% growth p.a.           298R/        380        441         485
Surplus/Deficit
, Assuming 3% growth p.a.           +58          +22         -10        -29
. Assuming 5% growth p.a.           +58          -13        -74        -118
BVK P!lnit - Planned output
Total                               -           15          24         24
of which:  exports d/                           11          18         17
Source: Arthur D. Little.
a/  Excluding BVK plant; and assuming that all existing capacity remains in
operation, that declared expansion   plans are carried out, and that
some existing plants are debottlenecked.
b/ Including net exports.
c/ 1983
d/ Including to CMEA countries.
3.15      Destination of Project Output.  Hungary imported about 3,000 tons
of MDI in 1983.   However, consumption is being constrained by lack of
foreign exchange.   Demand projections for the various uses and types of
MDI-based products show that domestic consumption should absorb about 5,000
tons of MDI by the late 1980's and 8,000 to 10,000 tons by the mid 1990s.
In addition, BVK is in the process of negotiating contracts to exchange
about 4,000 tpy of MDI against aniline feedstock from Czechoslovakia and
over 6,000 tpy of MDI against polyols and TDI from Yugoslavia. 2/ Thus,
markets for over 60% of the Project output are already reasonably secured.
2/   These exchange contracts, however, are not crucial to the plant's
financial and economic feasibility, which has been assessed on the
basis of border prices (para 8.07).



- 18 -
It is expected that the balance (up to 8,000 tpy) will be exported to CC
areas. Estimated sales by destinations are summarized in Annex 3-6.
3.16      Prices.  Over the past 3 years, prices of MDI have been depressed
in Western Europe and in the US, due to the general economic slowdown. In
1983, prices started recovering in the US as demand increased and this
trend continued during 1984.  _n Europe, prices also started recovering,
but the -price war prevailing in Europe following the entry of Upjohn as a
local producer have prevented faster price recovery in spite of relatively
high effective capacity utilization (852).   Prices in 1984 were still at
unsatisfactory levels.  As demand in Europe increases to levels where all
capacity is utilized, prices are expected to increase as shown below, until
1987. They would subsequently slightly decrease in real terms until 1990,
following the projected price decreases in aniline, its major raw material
(para 8.07). Past and projected MDI prices are presented below:
Prices of MDI - In Constant 1984 Terms
(USS per ton)
Actual                   Projected
1980      1984       1987      1990      1995
Polymeric MDI                1,750     1,250       1,420    1,380      1,460
Pure MDI                     2,200     1,650       1,810    1,750      1,870
Source: Arthur D. Little.
3.17      The price of MDI may be considerably higher when it is sold as a
component of a PU system than when sold in bulk; however greater expendi-
tures are required to market PU systems and to provide technical service to
customers than simply to sell MDI as a commodity. BVK is now developing a
marketing strategy which aims at selling as much MDI as possible in the
form of systems (using imported polyols for the other systems component).
Assurances were obtained from BVK that it will provide to the Bank for
review a comprehensive plan which will include detailed marketing
arrangements for MDI systems sales by the end of June 1987 (18 months
before the start of the plant operation).
D. Ion Exchange Resins
3.18        Ion exchange resins are speciality resins used as auxiliary
materials in water treatment plants.   The major market for ion exchange
resins worldwide are power plants (two-thirds of sales).   Other applica-
tions are expected to increase sharply in the future, particularly In the
areas of condensate treatment for large boilers and effluent treatment.
Currently,  Hungarian  production  is  concentrated  at  Nitrokemia,  which
produces about 6,000 m3 of ion exchange resins, of which 1,500 m3 are
consumed domestically, 2,300 m3 are exported to CKEA countries and 2,500 m3
are sold in CC countries (mainly USA, Switzerland and Spain). The Project
will produce an incremental quantity of about 9,500 i3 of ion exchange
resins by 1990. The products are of high quality and command ready sales
in export markets.   Enquiries from potential major customers willing to



- 19 -
sign long-term contracts have already been received for about 6,000 R3 of
resins, although the Project is not scheduled to come on stream for another
3 1/2 years.
3.19       The current and expected world demand of ion exchange resins and
the destination of the Project incremental output are presented in Annex
3-7.  By 1990, incremental sales from the Project will amount to about 3.5Z
of world requirements. Incremental CC sales will account for only 4.3% of
total needs of CC markets and a third of their incremental requirements.
The incremental output will be marketed on CC markets through established
major manufacturers (about 42%), extension of existing contracts with local
distributors (about 31%) and the balance directly to users (27%).
E.   Intermediates for Plant Protection Chemicals and Detergents
3.20        (a) Monochloroacetic acid, the production of which is planned
planned under the Project by Nitrokemia, is an intermediate with a wide
range of uses in the fine chemicals industry. In Hungary, it is being used
essentially in the production of herbicides (80%) and cellulosic fibers.
The whole output from the expansion of the existing plant (4,000 tpy) would
be sold domestically, in replacement for imports.
3.21       (b) The proposed Sulfonation Plant of Caola will produce inter-
mediates for the production of fine detergents, rinsing compounds and cos-
metics, and will permit substitution of imports of the intermediates as
well as of finished products and the extension of Caola's product range.
All production will be sold domestically.
IV. THE BORROWER AND PROJECT ENTITIES
A.   Introduction
4.01         This chapter summarizes key features of the companies and
research institutes which are participating in the Project. The financial
analysis of the subprojects and their impact on projected financial state-
ments of the major companies are presented in Chapter VII. A more detailed
description of the project entities is presented in Annex 4-2 and key
financial data for each production company are summarized in Annex 4-3.
Detailed financial statements for the period 1981-83 are available in the
Project File, Reference F.
B.   The National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
4.02         The Borrower of the Bank loan will be the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), which will onlend the loan proceeds to the participating
entities. NBH is the central bank and the major commercial and development
bank of Hungary. As the central bank, NBR handles the foreign exchange and
gold reserves, plays a principal role in setting the exchange rate, deter-
mines banking policies, and issues bank notes and coins.  It is the main
banker for the State, state enZerprises, banking institutions and coopera-
tives.  It also has responsibility for establishing and administering the
credit policies of the banking system.  As a commercial bank, NBH accepts
deposits, and extends loans to Hungarian enterprises and cooperatives for
working capital and investment. It carries out payments, credit, and other



- 20 -
banking operations relating to foreign trade and other external economic
relations, and administers exchange controls. The volume and direction of
credit to be granted by the banking system and the credit and interest rate
policies to be followed are described in official credit policy guidelines
which are reviewed annually by NBH and the National Planning Office to
reflect changes in monetary policies and help facilitate the implementation
of the five-year plan.   The NBH headquarters are in Budapest and it
operates country-wide through 19 regional offices and 71 branches.
4.03      NBE's balance sheet and income statement indicate that the insti-
tution is in good financial condition (Annex 4-1, tables I and 2). Gross
income and profit have increased over 1979-83 by 45Z and 26Z respectively.
A sharp increase in profit took place between 1982 and 1983 due largely to
increases in interest rates.   Holdings of gold,  foreign exchange and
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) also increased substantially during 1983.
The main sources of NRBH funds are the mandatory deposits of banks and
enterprises.  In 1983 other important sources of funds were IMF deposits,
foreign loans and, in part, NBH's own profit. The overall financial posi-
tion of NBH is sound largely due to: (a) its role as the central bank;
(b) its close review of sub-borrowers' finances by controlling borrowings
and holding their accounts; and (c) its excellent credit recovery record.
NEBH would have no difficulty in meeting its obligations under this Project
as well as the ongoing Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project (Loan 2317-HU), the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project
(Loan 2397-HU), and the proposed Integrated Livestock Industry Project.
C. The Project Entities
4.04        Brief Description of Participating Entities.  Eight companies,
tvo research institutes and an engineering institute will participate in
the Project, the activities of which are further described in Annex 4-2.
These are five pharmaceutical enterprises (Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis,
Biogal and Reanal) which would implement the pharmaceutical and the
Pyrethroids subprojects; BVK, the second largest petrochemical enterprise
in Hungary, would implement the MDI subproject; Nitrokemia, which has a
very  diversified  production  of  a wile  range  of  fine  and  speciality
chemicals, would implement the Ion Exchange Resins and the Monochloroacetic
Acid subprojects; and Caola, the major producer of household chemicals and
cosmetics, would construct a sulfonation plant for the manufacturing of
intermediates required for its own operations. All the companies are well
established, some of the pharmaceutical companies were founded over 70
years ago; the most recent is Caola, which resulted from the merger of
several smaller companies in 1963. Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal,
Reanal and Caola are located in Budapest, while BVK and Biogal are located
in the northeastern part of Hungary and Nitrokemia is located near
Veszprem, close to Lake Balaton (Map).   The two research institutes are
GYKI, the jointly-owned institute of the pharmaceutical companies, and
NEVIKI, the major screening and testing organization for plant protection
chemicals  (para  2.33).    VEGYTERV,  the  major  design  and  engineering
institute for the chemical industry would also participate in the Project.
While GYKI and VEGYTERV are located in Budapest, NEVIKI is located in
Veszprem.



- 21 -
4.05       Management Structure.  All production companies participating in
the Project are state enterprises. They are presently managed by executive
boards headed by the General Manager and composed of the company's deputy
managers, and in some cases, representatives of the labor union and other
social organizations.   The General Manager, who is appointed by the
iinister of Industry, is in turn responsible to a Supervisory Council
headed by the Ministry of Industry.  This Supervisory Council, however,
only has the role of advisor to the Vice Minister who has power to enforce
or reject its recommendations. Experience has shown, however, that while
companies have tended to rely on the Ministry for their general orientation
and investment plans, the Ministry has not been in a position to to provide
them with  adequate  guidance.    This  setup  also  explains  the general
weaknesses in strategic planning discussed below in para 4.08.
4.06       The Government is planning to break the hierarchical link which
still exists between the Ministry and the General Manager by setting up new
types of Boards of Directors (Enterprise Councils). Half of the Board mem-
bers would be representatives of the company's management, and the other
half of the employees.  This board will exercise the traditional owners'
rights, including the appointment of the General Manager (through a
competitive process open to qualified applicants) and the determination of
his/her salary and performance reward; the approval of the enterprise
structure (including mergers, joint ventures, setting up of subsidiaries);
and the review of the company's strategy and investment program. The new
boards will be put into operation in the whole state-owned industrial
sector over a period of two years (1985 and 1986). A review of experience
in the industrial sector with the new form of Management Boards is planned
by Hungarian authorities for the end of 1985 or early 1986 and adjustments
to the new regulations will be made at that time if necessary.
4.07       Internal Organization.  State enterprises are otherwise indepen-
dently managed in all aspects of their internal organization, personnel
recruitment, technological development, investment planning, procurement,
sales, business policies, commercial and other functions normally associ-
ated with the operations of an enterprise.   All companies are organized
functionally into divisions (generally technical, financial, commercial,
personnel and legal, and planning and investments) headed by deputy
managers.  Companies are free to set up their own internal organization,
which has evolved overtime in response to changes in scope of activities
and increased exposure to markets. Except for the MDI subproject, all sub-
projects fit well into existing operations and their management does not
require modifications to the companies' existing organization structures.
The MDI subproject, however, is a new activity for BVK and is very differ-
ent in nature from its other major activities (fertilizers, PVC and PVC-
based plastic processing).   Because of the critical need for continuous
feedback between PU systems marketing operations and product development,
flexibility in management is essential, which the integration of MDI opera-
tions in BVK's functional lines may not allow to the extent required.
Consequently, while BVK's investment department would be in charge of
implementing the MDI subproject, the MDI activity would be subsequently
organized into a business area or a subsidiary, with its own management
gathering all the production, R&D, marketing and market follow-up functions
for the company's polyurethane operations. Assurances were obtained that,
by December 1985, BVK would present a proposal, acceptable to the Bank, to
that effect.



- 22 -
4.08       Strategic Planning.  Although all companies prepare medium- and
long-term plans (in addition to annual plans), their comprehensiveness and
utility appear to vary significantly. Strategic planning capabilities are
generally limited, as companies have so far tended to put excessive reli-
ance on government authorities for long-range orientations (para 4.05
above). Their planning capabilities seem to focus on short- or medium-term
growth and justification of projects for obtaining the necessary credit
approvals. Long-range strategic planning, however, is particularly impor-
tant in an environment of quickly changing technologies and market demand
and the upcoming self management of all state enterprises.   The need for
management training and consulting assistance to improve strategic planning
in chemical enterprises will be addressed in the context of the Project
(para 5.28).
4.09          Cost Accounting and Transfer Pricing.   The companies have
developed cost accounting and transfer pricing systems which permit a rea-
sonable assessment of the profitability of their various plants, factories,
product lines and even products.  In fact, product level costing is well-
developed because price regulations have required that profitability on the
domestic market be no higher than on export sales.   Transfer prices for
materials and intermediates produced and used by the companies are usually
based on market prices, i.e., those which the company does or could obtain
by selling them outside.  The basis for allocation of overhead and other
fixed costs among product categories is reasonable.
4.10      Auditing.  All enterprises are subject to financial auditing by
the General Control Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, which carries
out on-site audits of each enterprise normally once every second year, in
addition to routine review of financial statements, which are received
three times a year.   These audits, which are satisfactory within their
defined scope and periodicity, focus on compliance with local accounting
procedures, on whether financial statements reflect the real position of
the enterprise, on the constitution of proper funds and their use and pro-
per calculations and payment of taxes.  NBH accounts are audited by inde-
pendent certified public accountants, which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.11        Financial Condition.  Key financial data for each of the nine
companies are summarized in Annex 4-3.  Detailed financial statements for
the period 1981-83 are available in the Project File, Reference F.  All
pharmaceutical companies, Nitrokemia and Caola are in a sound financial
condition. Key financial ratios (profitability indicators, current ratios,
long-term debt/equity ratios and debt service coverage ratios) are general-
ly consistent with experience in similar industries elsewhere. As detailed
in Annex 4-2, BVK has recently faced liquidity problems following signifi-
cant world price decreases irn both fertilizers and plastics in the early
1980s, but in December 1984 the Government resolved to reschedule
repayments of the large outstanding debt which was contracted to finance
the VCM, chlorine and PVC plants (all of which came onstream in 1978). The
company is now in a financial condition sound enough to implement the MDI
subproject, which should significantly contribute to restore its profitabi-
lity and decrease its vulnerability to world market fluctuations in fertil-
izer and PVC prices.   All companies are in a position to fund their
required contribution to the various subprojects out of internal cash
generation from their existing operations (para 7.04).



- 23 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Overall Project Objectives and Scope
5.01      The Project aims at accelerating the implementation of a strategy
for reorienting the Hungarian chemical industry towards R&D-based fine and
specialty chemicals with good potential for increased convertible currency
earnings and savings. This objective would be achieved through the follow-
ing four major complementary components under the Project:
(a)  funding of priority investments in the fine chemicals industry
which were identified during the comprehensive review of the
investment program of all chemical enterprises which took place
as part of the Chemical Sector Review (para 2.02). These produc-
tion investments consist of (i) upgrading manufacturing capaci-
ties of the pharmaceutical industry to internationally acceptable
standards, in order to avoid losses of exports which will occur
otherwise; and (ii) initiating, expanding and modernizing the
production of pharmaceuticals, MDI-based polyurethane systems and
other selected fine and speciality chemicals and their interme-
diates with significant features of export generation and/or
import substitution;
Cb)  increasing the capacity and upgrading the facilities of selected
key research and development organizations so that they can per-
form a wider range of the required tests for the companies and
according to internationally acceptable standards;
(c)  funding clinical trials and registration expenses in selected
OECD country(ies) so that the pharmaceutical industry can attempt
on a pilot basis to penetrate these potentially large and more
secure markets with formulations sold under its own brand
name(s);
Cd)  providing consultancy services to: (i) assist the pharmaceutical
industry to prepare a detailed marketing strategy for the above
pilot component; (ii) assist BVK in developing the details of its
marketing plans for the sale of polyurethane systems; (iii) pro-
vide training for selected managers and staff of all chemical
companies in strategic planning; (iv) carry out studies to help
identify further prospects for development in the chemical indus-
try after 1988, and prepare a restructuring program for the
fertilizer industry.
The Project will be implemented over a period of four-and-a-half years and
is expected to be completed by June 1989.
B.   Bank Role and Rationale for Bank Assistance
5.02       The Bank's role in Hungary's industrial sector is to assist the
Government in its pursuit of structural adjustments and technology
improvements, a principal aim of which is to increase convertible foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank assisted the Government with advice
on the investment strategy for the chemical subsector and on the selection



- 24 -
of priority investments in the subsector, which would be supported by the
proposed project. By focusing on the production of high value-added fine
chemicals, particularly pharmaceuticals, the Project would build on
Hungary's comparative advantage in fields requiring a high level of R&D,
based on the country's pool of low-cost, highly qualified scientists and
engineers.    The  Project would  seek  to  strengthen  strategic  planning
capabilities of all chemical companies through special training programs
for the management and staff of these companies, and it would initiate a
change in long-term marketing strategy for pharmaceutical innovations by
assisting the industry to enter, on a trial basis, the potentially
lucrative developed country CC markets with final products sold under
Hungarian brand names. The Project would also provide funds for a study of
the necessary restructuring of the fertilizer industry and identify future
development potentials in a number of branches of the chemical industry.
Thus, the Project would be consistent with the Bank's strategy for
assistance to Hungary by building on the country's competitive strengths,
reorienting the direction of investment in the chemical industry, improving
the efficiency of resource use, strengthening the balance of payments in
convertible currencies, and offering external technical assistance.
C.   Production Investments
1.   Objectives and Description
5.03      (a)  Pharmaceuticals.  The Project would aim at consolidating the
position of the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry on world markets by:
(i) replacing or upgrading those formulation facilities not yet meeting GMP
standards and expanding other formulation facilities so that all Hungarian
present and planned finished products sold in dosage form (formulations)
are manufactured in accordance with GMP standards; (ii) modernizing and
expanding a number of the companies' multipurpose fermentation and synthe-
sis plants to permit the increased production of a wide range of active
substances, formulated products, as well as some intermediates and medical
aids.
5.04      At the Gedeon Richter Company, investments would include: (i) a
new multi-purpose injection plant at Budapest, of a total capacity of 350
million ampoules per year, to replace and expand the existing plant (205
million ampoules per year), which does not meet GMP standards: (ii) the
expansion of the fermentation (by 2 x 80 m3 fermenters) and synthesis capa-r
city at the Budapest p'ant for the production of about 27 tpy of various
steroid intermediates (allowing the conversion of the process from
presently imported, expensive intermediates to earlier, cheaper ones) and
the additional production of about 160 kg per year of steroids; and
(iii) the construction in Dorog of a waste incinerator of a total
incineration capacity of 25,000 tons per year to permit disposal of
dangerous wastes of the Budapest and Dorog production plants of Gedeon
Richter, Chinoin and Egis.
5.05       At the Chinoin Company investments would include:   Ci)  a new
injection plant at Csanyik Violgy (near Miskolc) with a total capacity of
150 million ampoules per year, to expand the company's injection making
capacity from 105 million to 255 million ampoules per year (the existing
plant was recently upgraded to meet GMP standards); (ii) the expansion and
modernization of  the  fermentation  plant  at  Ujpest,  Budapest,  by the



- 25 -
addition of 2 x 150 m3 fermenters and modernization of the downstream
recovery section, to produce an additional 42 tpy of various active
ingredients for antibiotics; and (iii) the modernization and expansion of
the synthesis plant at Ujest, Budapest, by the addition of two
muilti-purpose batch-type production lines for the production of abou. 141
tpy of active ingredients (and their intermediates) in various therapeutic
groups (veterinary anthelmintics, cardiovasculars, anti-parkinsonism, and
treatment of old-age diseases).
5.06      At the Egis Company, investments would include: (i) modernization
of the existing liquid formulation plants at Budapest (Holgy) and Kormend
to bring them to GMP standards and expand their capacities from 80 million
to 140 million ampoules per year at Budapest (for iniections) and from 5.5
million to 9 million units per year at Kormend (for syrups); (ii)  moderni-
zation and debottlenecking of the existing synthesis and tabletting plants
for cardiovasculars at the Budapest (Kereszturi) and Kormend plants, to
permit an increase in the production capacity of cardiovascular active
ingredients by 65 tpy and of formulations by 60 million tablets per year;
and (iii) debottlenecking, modernization and expansion of the veterinary
products synthesis and formulation plants at Budapest  (Kereszturi)  and
Kormend, to increase the manufacturing capacity of active ingredients and
their intermediates by 100 tpy and of their formulation facilities by
300,000 ampoules for injections and 120,000 powder-filled ampoules per
year.    This additional capacity will  be used  for the  production  of
antibiotics, anthelmintics and potentiated sulfonamides.
5.07        At the Biogal Company, investments would include:  Mi) a new
formulation plant at Debrecen of a total capacity of 120 million ampoules
per year for liquid injections, 20 million powder-filled ampoules, 180
million capsules as well as tablets and coated tablets (1 billion per
year), syrups and other liquid preparations (3.8 million vials per year),
ointments and gels (5 million units per year), and suppositories (12
million units per year), to replace and expand the existing plant which
does not meet GMP standards; (ii) expansion of the synthesis plant at
Debrecen, with the addition of two multipurpose production lines, for the
production of about 45 tpy of antibiotics and their intermediates; and
(iii) expansion of the existing surgical plaster plant at Debrecen to manu-
facture 1.15 million meters of surgical plasters per year; and at the
Reanal Company, expansion of the diagnostic test manufacturing facilities
at Budapest to produce an additional 180,000 packs of mixed diagnostic
agents.
5.08      (b)  Plant Protection Chemicals.  Investments in plant protection
chemicals will consist of two sub-projects: (i) at the Nitrokemia Company,
the exv-sision of the Monochloroacetic acid plant built in 1982 at Fuzfogy-
artelep, near Veszprem, to increase its capacity from 6,000 tpy to 10,000
tpy.  This product is an intermediate used essentially for the production
of herbicides, but is also used in the production of cellulosic fibres and
pharmaceuticals; and (ii) at the Chinoin Company, expansion of the pyreth-
roids plant at Nagyteteny, Budapest, to increase its capacity by 230 tpy of
pyrethroid intermediates, 100 tpy of active ingredients and 7.5 million
aerosol cans per year for household use.



- 26 -
5.09          (c)   MDI and MDI-based Polyurethane Systems.   The Project
consists of the construction of a 25,000 tpy of Methyl Diphenyl Diisocya-
nate (MDI) production unit at the BVK works at Kazingbarcika (near
Miskolc).   As explained in para 3.12, MDI, in conjunction with polyols
(polyethers and polyesters) and various additives (blowing agents,
surfactants, catalysts) forms a polyurethane 'system' which the end user
processes  for a variety of applications.    An  important  part of  the
subproject will be the acquisition of 'system' technical know-how and the
construction of the necessary laboratory and test facilities so that the
company can sell a wide variety of systems and provide the technical
back-up services  to its customers for systems and straight MDI.   The
manufacturing process for MDI is (i) the condensation reaction of aniline
with formaldehyde to form diphenylmethanediamine (MDA); (ii) the HDA is
dissolved in orthodichlorobenzene (ODCB) and is reacted with phosgene to
give crude MDI and by-product hydrochloric acid; (iii) the hydrochloric
acid is recovered; and (iv) the crude MDI is purified and separated by
stripping and distillation and sent to storage.   The major raw materials
and their supply will be as follows: (i) aniline (19,000 tpy) will be
supplied through an exchange agreement with a Czechoslovakian producer
against MDI exports; (ii) formaldehyde (3,730 tpy) will be supplied from
the existing facilities of North Hungarian Chemical Company located about
15 km from BVK; (iii) phosgene (9,870 tpy) will come from an existing BVK
plant that will be debottlenecked as part of the subproject; (iv) polyols
(for systems) will be supplied from a Yugoslavian producer in exchange for
MDI; and (iv) caustic soda (9,400 tpy) will be supplied from BVK's existing
facilities.   The major by-product  from the project,  hydrochloric acid
(28,100 tpy at 33% concentration) can be easily sold on the local market
for use  in the metallurgical  industry and for water  treatment.    All
utilities required, with the exception of cooling water that will be
expanded as part of the subproject, will be provided from the existing
facilities.   Finally, the Project will also finance foreign consulting
assistance to assist BVK in preparing marketing arrangements for MDI-based
systems (para 3.17).  Assurances were obtained that such consultants will
be contracted no later than b7 the end of June 1986.
5.10      (d)  Ion Exchange Resins.  At the Nitrokemia Company, the Project
will finance the replacement and expansion of the existing capacity of
6,000 m3 per year (dating from 1959) by establishing a new plant of a capa-
city to produce 15,000 m3 per year of styrene-based ion exchange resins.
These are speciality products used for water purification for industrial
use and power generation plants (para 3.18). The plant will be located at
Fuzfogyartelep.
5.11      (e)  Detergents Intermediates.  At the Caola Company, establish-
ment of a sulfonation plant of a capacity of 4,000 tpy of active agents for
detergents, to replace equivalent imports. These are mainly used for high
quality cosmetics and soaps and will extend the present range of Caola's
products. The plant will be located in Budapest. The subproject involves
the construction of sulphur trioxide production facilities used (in high
purity form) for the sulfonation of a range of natural and synthetic gly-
cerides and other reagents.



- 27-
2. Implementation and Schedule
5.12        All Project companies have well established investment depart-
ments which have implemented their investment programs in the past and will
implement the proposed subprojects. The investment programs for Nitrokemia
and the pharmaceutical companies (which essentially comprise the Bank-
financed subprojects) are similar in size and costs to their programs for
the past five years, which have been implemented satisfactorily.   BVY's
investment department has also successfully implemented investment projects
of a much larger size than the proposed MDI subproject. These departments
will be responsible for overall project management, including procurement,
cost control and  construction  supervision.    The  companies' technical
departments, except for the BVK's MDI, the Gedeon Richter waste incinera-
tor, the Nitrokemia Monochloroacetic acid and the Caola sulfonation subpro-
jects, will be responsible for basic and detailed engineering (with
assistance from local consultants).   For the Nitrokemia Monochloroacetic
acid subproject, detailed engineering, some procurement services and some
construction supervision will be provided by the foreign consultant who
designed the original installation.   For the Gedeon Richter incineration
subproject and the Caola sulfonation subproject, major package units will
be procured so that process and detailed design work in Hungary will be
limited.   For the BVK MDI subproject,  technology and know-how will be
supplied by a foreign consultant who will provide licenses, know-how, basic
engineering, supervision of detailed engineering, some construction super-
vision, technical evaluation for all major equipment items procured,
start-up assistance, training for plant operation (including training
abroad in an existing plant), systems formulation technology and process
and product development information during the period of the license.
Assurances were obtained that BVK will contract the foreign consultant no
later than by the end of August 1985.  All foreign procurement under the
Project will be carried out through one of the specialized foreign trade
organizations. Details of the implementation arrangements for each of the
subprojects are summarized in Annex 5-1. 7or all projects the engineering
is already well advanced regarding offsites (steam, cooling water, power
supplies, etc.) and layouts.   For the inside battery limits, the basic
engineering, where provided locally, has been completed; where it is to be
provided by foreign companies, sufficient data has already been obtained to
generate equipment lists and to provide adequate information for sizing all
major items and utilities requirements. Thus implementation of the various
subprojects was initiated prior to January 1985 (except for the Biogal sur-
gical plasters subproject which, due to site constraints, will commence in
January 1986).  All subprojects are expected to be completed by mid-1989.
Subproject implementation schedules are summarized in Annex 5-2.
3. Environmental Aspects
5.13        The establishment and enforcement of environmental regulations
are the responsibility of three national authorities directly responsible
to the Council of Ministers: The National Water Authority, for water pol-
lution; the National Authority for Environment Protection and Nature
Conservation, for air pollution and waste disposal; and the newly created
National Safety Inspectorate, for health and safety aspects. Water pollu-
tion and health and safety regulations are acceptable and are being ade-
quately enforced. Waste disposal regulations are acceptable and are being
adequately enforced except for organic wastes disposal where enforcement is



- 28 -
constrained by the lack of incinerators (para 5.16 below); air pollution
regulations are less stringent and enforcement is inadequate.   However,
significant tightening of the regulations and increases in the associated
penalties are being planned for implementation in 1985.   The proposed
changes were reviewed by the mission and were found to be consistent with
Bank recommendations.
5.14        Regarding the subprojects, assurances were obtained from the
companies that the Project facilities will be designed and operated in
accordance with the existing Hungarian water pollution, toxic waste
disposal, health and safety regulations, which are satisfactory to the
Bank, and with air pollution standards satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it will take all action
on its part (included the enactment of air pollution regulations and the
provision of means necessary for their enforcement).   In addition, the
companies have been notified of a number of specific design features (which
existing plants lack) which they have agreed to incorporate into the
subprojects in order for the Project facilities to conform with the
proposed environmental regulations (Annex 5-3). An assurance was obtained
in that respect.
5.15        (a)   Pharmaceutical Subprojects.   None of the pharmaceutical
subprojects pose ervironmental problems that cannot be handled by the
existing effluent treatment plants, except that a number of the organic
residues from such treatment plants and other wastes directly from the pro-
duction units have to be disposed of in land fills, which can lead to
pollution of ground water supplies. To solve this problem for the existing
plants and for the Project facilities, two organic waste incinerators will
be constructed.  One will be located in the north-eastern part of Hungary
and will handle organic wastes from Biogal as well as from other industries
in the area. Construction is planned to start in 1985 with funds available
domestically.  The second unit, which will be financed under the Project
(para 5.04), will be located in western Hungary at the Gedeon Richter Dorog
plant and will dispose of wastes generated by pharmaceutical plants in the
Budapest area and in the western part of Hungary.   These enterprises
include Gedeon Richter, Egis, Chinoin and Reanal.   Both units will meet
strict environmental specifications relating to air, liquid and solid
pollution and will generate signifiednt quantities of steam through
efficient utilization of the heat generated during combustion of the
waste.  The design of both units is similar; it has been reviewed by the
Bank at appraisal and found acceptable. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that the resources required for the North Eastern incinerator
will be made available so that it can be completed by the end of January
1989 and that, should its completion be delayed, take other measures
satisfactory to the Bank to dispose of the organic waste in the meantime.
Assurances were also obtained from Gedeon Richter that the Dorog plant will
be completed prior to January 1989.
5.16       (b)  Plant Protection Chemicals.  The existing centralized waste
treatment facilities at Nitrokemia, which are satisfactory, will be expand-
ed as part of the Monochloroacetic acid subproject.   In-plant treatment
facilities will be installed to recover dichloroacetic acid that is cur-
rently being discharged into the effluent system.   Vent gases will be
scrubbed to remove toxic constituents while solid wastes will be inciner-
ated in existing facilities. At Chinoin, liquid effluents from the pyreth-



- 29 -
roids subproject will be detoxified and then discharged to centralized
effluent treatment facilities now under construction. Since the pyrethroid
manufacturing process uses a number of intermediate materials that are
potentially explosive and thus pose hazards to plant personnel, assurances
from Chinoin were obtained that a Hazard and Operability study will be
carried out by consultants acceptable to the Bank prior to completion of
detailed engineering and that the recommendations arising from the analysis
will be implemented prior to start-up of the subproject.  Due to the small
quantities of reactants in the process, the hazards are confined to the
Chinoin site which is located outside of Budapest in a rural environment.
5.17       (c)  The MDI Subproject.  For the MDI plant, all gases released
to the atmosphere pass through caustic scrubbers to remove the toxic gases;
the scrubbers are designed to remove all the phosgene in the system in the
event of an emergency.   Liquid effluents are treated to remove traces of
aniline, MDA and formaldehyde which are toxic to aquatic life.  The final
liquid effluent, which contains sodium chloride (salt), will be recycled to
the chlorine/caustic plant so that there are no liquid discharges from the
MDI plant. A number of materials used in the subproject are hazardous and
strict handling procedures must be observed.  Most of these materials are
liquids (aniline, formaldehyde solution, caustic solution, hydrochloric
acid) or solids (MDI) under ambient conditions and are easily handled and
stored. Phosgene, however, forms a dense poisonous gas at ambient condi-
tions and requires very stringently designed production and handling
systems to ensure that no discharge occurs. Due to the extremely hazardous
nature of -he materials, and since the phosgene plant is only 750 meters
away from the Company's housing development and about I km away from the
nearest village, assurances were obtained that BVK will carry out:  (i) a
Hazard and Operability Study3/ for the existing phosgene plant covering
also modifications for its debottlenecking; (ii) a Hazard and Operability
Study for the MDI plant; (iii) a Risk Assessment Study4/ for the MDI,
phosgene,  and related  facilities.   The studies and anailysis will use
specialized  international  consultants,  where  required,  on  terms  and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  The scope and methodology for these
studies and analysis were agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that the Hazard and Operability Study will be
completed prior to completion of detailed engineering; the Risk Assessment
Study will be completed prior to mechanical completion; their recommenda-
tions will be forwarded to the Bank for review; and that the recommenda-
tions will be implemented as soon as possible and in any case prior to the
start-up of the MDI plant, including those for safety procedures,
specialized training and   equipment,  liaison and consultation with the
outside community and  regular drills.   Finally, a copy of the safety
inspector's annual reports on the phosgene plant will be required as part
of the Project reporting requirements (para 7.05).
3/   This Study is carried out by a multidisciplinary team of engineers to
review the consequences of mal-operation and equipment failure and to
recommend modifications and/or procedures to minimize the risk and
consequences of such incidents.
4/   This  Study  quantifies  the  risk  identified  by  the  Hazard  and
Operability Study posed by the process plant, storage and facilities
to plant personnel and the communitv at large and the measures and
and procedures required to deal with such hazard.



- 30 -
5.18       (d)  Other Subprojects.  Liquid effluent discharges from the Ion
Exchange Resins plant at Nitrokemia will be stripped for removal of hydro-
carbons and then neutralized in existing facilities, which are satisfacto-
ry.   Regarding the Caola Sulfonation Plant, gaseous discharges from the
sulfur trioxide facilities will be scrubbed with caustic soda to ensure no
discharge of sulfur trioxide.   Liquid effluents will be treated in the
existing waste water facilities for reduction of biochemical oxygen demand
to acceptable levels.
D.   Research and DevelopEent
5.19       The R&D component of the Project would support improvements in
screening and testing capabilities of the enterprises and research
institutes most concerned with the development of new drugs and plant
protection chemicals.   Regarding pharmaceuticals,  the Project will thus
provide the R&D departments of the Gedeon Richter, Chinolra, and Egis
pharmaceutical companies and the GYKI research institute (para 2.33) with
modern equipment necessary to meet the higher analytical standards now
required to: (i) control the purity and uniformity of new chemical entities
to be used as active ingredients; (ii) elucidate the structure of new,
extremely complex molecules; and (iii) carry out pharmakinetic studies of
new drugs to trace over time the drug's metabolism in test animals. These
activities utilize highly sensitive and sophisticated equipment (gas and
liquid chromatographs, spectrometers, etc., many of which are computer
controlled) for the isolation and analysis of pure materials occurring in
extremely low concentrations.   Biochemical  testing is carried out with
levels of the test compound of 1 billionth or 1 trillionth of a gram; such
testing is impossible  to perform by traditional methods.    New multi-
channel automatic equipment must also be used for pharmacological testing
which today requires the simultaneous monitoring of several physiological
functions (e.g  hl-od D-nT :, heart rate, respiratory rate, EEC muscular
conditions); a: -     .cdectronic computers is mandatory for this
work and will a2              a inder the Project.
5.20         With respect to plant protection chemicals, a comprehensive
toxicological screening program has to be carried out for each new plant
protection chemical before organizations such as the EPA and other OECD
regulatory bodies will register the product for sale in their respective
countries.  Until now, such tests have had to be carried out, in part, in
overseas R&D institutions whose operation and equipment meet the interna-
tionally recognized standard of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). Hungarian
companies wishing to have such tests carried out on new pesticides to be
sold in these countries have had to incur considerable outlays in foreign
exchange, since NEVIKI, the institute carrying out pesticide screening
tests in Hungary (para 2.33), has not had the facilities nor operating
standards to meet GLP.  The problem is expected to become more acute in the
future as there has recently been a stepping up of R&D in this field and
many new promising compounds, particularly herbicides (which are likely to
be of interest in CC export markets), are awaiting toxicological screen-
ing.   This component of the Project would therefore finance the foreign
exchange cost of upgrading and expanding the herbicide toxicological
screening facilities at NEVIKI and ensure that GLP standards and procedures
are adopted throughout the Institute. Besides equipment for central labo-
ratories, the Project will also finance equipment for animal houses, sani-
tary engineering equipment, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment,



- 31 -
fodder pelleting, feed preparation units and incinerators. The analytical
facilities currently available at NEVIKI have sufficient capacity to
provide all necessary analytical services to the new ittit.
5.21       Implementation Schedule.  It is expected that R&D equipment for
pharmaceuticals will be procured and installed by the end of 1986.
NEVIKI's toxicological facilities will be completed by the end of 1987.
E.   Pharmaceuticals Pre-marketing Pilot Operation
(a) Objectives and Description
5.22       As discussed in paras 2.15 and 2.16, in order to consolidate its
future growth,  the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry should attempt  to
penetrate OECD markets with formulated products sold under its own, or
jointly owned, brand names.   This attempt will be on a pilot basis, to
establish the optimum strategy for such penetration, and its scope has been
sized so that the companies can afford the associated financial burden and
risk (para 7.10). This pilot operation is independent from the subprojects
financed under the Project, the incremental output of which is expected to
be sold entirely through the industry's traditional methods and channels)
(para 3.08).
5.23        As a result of research activities in the last decade, the
Hungarian pharmaceutical industry has developed a number of new drugs, some
of which have already been approved for marketing and others which are in
various stages of clinical testing (which should be completed in the next
3-4 years). Because of the necessity of having a 'basket" of products with
the maximum number of "original" products, a joint operation by several of
the major Hungarian  research-based  companies would  be  preferred.    If
necessary, the companies would also provide some Hungarian generics of good
quality to be sold as brand-name generics.   If the clinical trials in
selected OECD countries are successful, these products could provide the
basis for a pilot marketing operation in one or two countries.  Together,
these products could generate enough sales volume to justify the expense of
the necessary promotion and marketing efforts by the Hungarian companies or
any appropriate joint venture or subsidiary company. The pilot operation
could take various forms from a newly established company, to a joint
venture (possibly with a buy-back clause) with a foreign partner or the
acquisition of a national company already established on the selected
market (para 2.16). The form of such an operatior should not be prejudged
at this time as it will depend on the options available on the selected
market(s).
5.24       As a necessary preliminary to marketing of brand name formula-
tions, the Hungarian industry will need to pay fo:- the clinical trials of
these products abroad and register them in its owi name. Simultaneously,
preparations will be made for setting up or findi-t7 selling organizations
(for joint ventures or acquisition) in one or two Western European count-
ries. Because of the long lead time necessary between clinical trials and
receipt of revenue from product sales, a special form of longer term credit
w- 1 be needed. If the pilot operation is successful, the operation could
be gradually extended to other countries and products.



- 32 -
5.25       World Bank assistance under the Project will take the form of:
(a) funding foreign consultants necessary for the review of an action plan
(prepared by the four major pharmaceutical companies) for the evaluation of
alternative marketing strategies and for selection of the best alterna-
tive(s); for the development of market plans for the products eventually
selected; and for the training of the companies' staff in associated
marketing and/or negotiating skills; and (b) financing of a credit line for
clinical trials and subsequent registration procedures.  Because clinical
trials and registration procedures are expected to take at least 3 years
and because production for the selected markets must await the upgrading of
manufacturing facilities to GMP standards (paras 5.04, 5.06 and 5.07), the
Project does not finance the costs of actually marketing these products or
of acquiring a company or contributing equity into a joint venture.
However, assurances were obtained that the Government will make the
required foreign exchange available to the companies at the proper time.
(b) Implementation and Schedule
5.26       The marketing strategy study and the preparation of the plan of
action will be carried out under jointly by Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis
and Biogal, the aegis of the Hungarian Association of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers.  The draft Plan of Action would be ready by the end of
December 1985; and the foreign consultants to review in such a study will
be recruited no later than March 30, 1986. The Plan will then be forwarded
to  the  Bank for review together with the consultant's report.   The
individual companies will then submit subloan applications to NBH to
fund clinical trials and registration expenses of the selected products and
will submit to the Bank terms of reference for contracting consultants for
the detailed market studies.   It is expected that product registration
will be completed between 1988 and 1990, by which time marketing
arrangements would have been finalized and manufacturing to GMP standards
would start. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the four major
companies (Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis and Biogal) that they will
complete recruitment of the consultant, the presentation of the plan of
action and the marketing arrangements by the specified dates.
F.   Studies, Training and Engineering Design
5.27        (a)  Objectives and Description.  Under the Project, six sub-
sector studies will be undertaken to establish an optimum strategy for
their future development. These studies will cover the following indus-
tries: fertilizer, some basic petrochemicals, intermediates for fine chemi-
cals, detergents, paints and varnishes, and drug and plant protection
intermediates.  Agreed terms of reference are available in the Project
File,  reference G.    The  fertilizer  study will  examine  the nitrogen
production facilities (65Z of the ammonia capacity is considered to be
obsolete) to determine which plants cannot be made economic through
economically justified investment and should thus be closed and which
plants can be improved. In addition, the justification for replacing those
plants that must be shut down will be examined.  The study is expected to
result in firm proposals for the restructuring of the nitrogen fertilizer
industry.   The study will also review fertilizer distribution aspects,
including trading margins.  The studies for the phosphate fertilizer and



- 33 -
other industries will examine the medium- and long-term position of the
industries and propose areas where they have competitive advantages and are
thus worthwhile developing.
5.28         In order to enhance the capabilitier of Hungarian chemical
companies in strategic planning (para 4.08), the Project will finance a
two-step training program: (a) a study trip for about 10 top managers of
selected  companies to specialized  institutions  and  relevant companies
abroad; and (b) the subsequent orgatization in Hungary of training seminars
for the staff of all chemical cr-apanies with the assistance of foreign
specialists and lecturers. The Project will finance the cost of travel and
subsistence abroad of the managers selected for the study tours, and all
local and foreign costs of the seminars in Hungary (including the purchase
of training materials).
5.29        In addition, under this component, equipment will be financed
to  assist VEGYTERV--the major  engineering  design  company serving  the
chemical and pharmaceutical sector (para 4.04)--to improve its basic and
detailed design activities both regarding quality and timely completion.
The equipment consists of reproduction equipment and desk top-t,pe computer
systems.   The computers will also act as terminals  for the existing
VEGYTERV main frame computer, thus allowing more widespread access within
VEGYTERV to* existing computerized design data bases and programs.
5.30      (b)  Implementation Schedule.  The studies will be carried out by
VEGYTERV with assistance from foreign consultants, particularly on nitrogen
technology questions and for market research expertise. The studies will
be coordinated and controlled via working groups drawn from the relevant
producer associations and the Ministry of Industry, which will provide
funding for local costs (50Z of the financing required).  Assurances were
obtained that the foreign consultants will be contracted by the end of
June 1986.  All studies are expected to be completed by the end of June
1987, at which time the results would be reviewed by the Bank and the
Government.   Training in strategic planning will be organized by the
Management Training Center of the Ministry of Industry, which is located in
Esztergom, and will take place in the second half of 1985 and during 1986.
Assurances were obtained that the necessary foreign specialists will be
contracted by the end of June 1986.   VEGYTERV will install the design
equipment by the end of June 1986.
G.  Overall Project Coordination and Supervision
5.31       A condition of effectiveness will be that the Gi.vernment estab-
lishes and maintain a coordination office, which will be directly responsi-
ble to the Ministry of Industry, with the responsibility of overall coordi-
nation, supervision and evaluation of the Project. Its main functions will
be the following: (a) to bring to the attention of proper authorities all
matters related to the Project requiring high level policy decisions;
(b) to assist in the preparation and signing of all subloan agreements
referred to in para 6.06; (c) to ensure timely selection and appointment of
the engineering agencies responsible for implementation supervision and
procurement; {d) to provide overall supervision of procurement; (e) to help
the executing entities in the preparation of disbursement applications and
in the interpretation of Bank guidelines for procurement and selection of
consultants; (f) to supervise the overall implementation of the project



- 34 -
(including thorough periodic field reviews) and other monitoring methods
and report to NBH and to the Bank on compliance by the Project entities
with their respective obligations under the Project Agreement (para 6.06);
(g) to ensure timely preparation of, and consolidate, progress and audit
reports referred to in paras 7.05 and 7.06, before forwarding to the Bank;
(h) to evaluate overall Project impact and be responsible to NBH for the
preparation of the Project Completion Report; and (i) generally to act as a
liaison between the Bank and the executing entities. The major part of the
staff of this coordination office (approximately five at the peak period)
is expected to be provided by one of the local engineering consultancy
firms.
VI. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.  Capital Costs
6.01         Total financing   required for the Project is estimated at
US$311.5   million,   including  incremental  working  capital,  physical
contingencies and price escalation.   Interest during construction will be
paid annually by the companies from funds generated by their current
operations and does not therefore require financing under the Project. The
direct and indirect foreign exchange component (in convertible currencies)
amounts  to US$132.3 million.    Summary estimates of  Project costs by
components and companies are presented on the next page; details by
subprojects are presented in Annex 6-1.
6.02       Base cost estimates for production facilities are derived from
feasibility studies carried out by each of the companies according to cri-
teria and methodologies agreed upon with the Bank. Local consultants were
used extensively in compiling the feasibility studies. In the case of the
BVK MDI subproject, the feasibility study was reviewed by foreign consul-
tants financed by the Bank under Loan 2397-HU.  In all cases, costs are
based on quotations for major imported and domestic supplies; in mbny
instances fo- the pharmaceutical industry, similar projects have been
recently implemented, giving a good data base for other non-quoted costs.
Base costs, which are presented in the feasibility studies at prices of
mid-1984, were updated to February 1985 (the planned date of negotia-
tions).   Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of total base costs
(excluding incremental working capital).   Price escalations for foreign
costs are based on forecasts of international inflation (Manufacturing Unit
Value index) of 8% in 1985, 9% annually from 1986 to 1988 and 7.5% in
1989,and, for local costs, on escalation factors of 8% in 1985 and 1986,
and 7% in 1987 and 1988, and 6.5% in 1989.  All costs are converted into
US$ at Ft 50 per US$, the estimated exchange rate at the time of
negotiations.    Import  duties  and  taxes  on  equipment  and  materials,
totalling US$14.4 million, excluding contingencies, are included in total
costs.



- 35 -
S UirT or PROJOCT COSTS
Million Forints             US$ Wllions
Total
ForeLgn as 2 of
as  of  Bse
Local    Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Total   Cost
A. Productlon Investments
1. Pbarmaceuticals and Intermediates
6edeon Richter                   1,831.8  1,007.5   2,839.3   36.6    20.2    56.8         35Z    23.4S
Chinoin                           593.4    453.9   1.047.3   11.9        9.1    20.9       432      8.6%
1gms                              383.5    422.2       805.7    7.7      8.4    16.1       52S      6.6S
Biogal                            878.8    548.0   1,426.8   17.6    11.0    28.5          382    11.7%
Reanal                             45.3      35.3       80.6    0.9      0.7      1.6      44S      0.72
Sub-total                   3.732.8  2.6.    6,199.7   74.7    49.3   124.0            402    51.0%
2. Plant Protection Chemicals
Chinoin                           199.9      86.5      286.4    4.0      1.7      5.7      302      2.3Z
Nitrokemla                         32.8      49.2       82.0    0.7      1.0      1.6      60S      0.72
Sub-total                     232.7    135.7       368.4    4.7      2.7      7.4      37Z      3.0S
3. lDI and Polyurethane
System  a  (aNM                 1.409.2  1,356.4   2,765.6   28.2    27.1    55.3          492    22.8Z
A. ron Exchange Resins (Nitrokemia)     692.5    237.0      929.5   13.9       4.7    18.6       252      7.72
5. Detergent Intermediates (Caola)       47.1      56.6      103.7    0.9      1.1     2.1       552      0.9S
Total Fied Assets                     6.114.3  4,252.6  10,366.9  122.3    85.1   207.4          412    85.42
Incremental Vorking Capital             715.6    180.5      896.1   14.3       3.6    17.9       202      7.4Z
Total Production Investments          6,829.9  4.433.1  11,263.0  136.6    88.7   225.3          402    92.82
B. Research and Devlopmet               149.9    239.7      389.6    3.0       4.8     7.8       622      3.22
C. Pilot Pbarmaceatical Pre-Marketing a;  5.0    415.3      420.3    0.1       8.3     8.4       9S       3.5%
D. Studies, Training, Design Equipment   30.6      39.3      69.9    0.6       0.8     1.4       562      0.5%
Total Baseline Cost                   7,015.4  5,127.4  12,142.8  140.3   102.6   246.4          422   100.0%
Physical Contlgencies                  627.0    454.0   1,081.0   12.5        9.1    21.6       42Z      8.92
Price Contingencies                   1,315.8  1.033.5   2,439.3   26.3    20.7    47.0          462     19.32
TOTAL PUrJEcr COSTS                   8,958.2  6,614.9  15.573.1  179.2   132.3   311.5          432   128.2Z
aI  Including market-related studies (paras 5.17 and 5.32)
6.03        As estimated 230 manr-months of foreign consultant and engineering
services will be financed under the loan for a total base cost (excluding
contingencies)   of  US$2.77  million,  including:                (i)  US$60,000  for  the
fertil'zer study and US$190,000 for the studies on future prospects in the
chemical industry (para 5.27); (ii) US$70,000 to assist BVK in preparing
detailed marketing arrangements for polyurethane systems (para 5.09);
(iii) US$350,000 to assist the pharmaceutical industry in preparing a plan
of action, a marketing strategy and market plans for the pilot



- 36 -
pre-marketing operation (para 5,25); US$60,000 for training in strategic
planning (para 5.28); (v) US$2.0 million for engineering services for the
MDI subproject and associated Hazard and Operability Studies and Risk
Assessment Study and risk analyses (para 5.17); (vi) US$15,000 for Chinoin
to carry out the risk analysis for the pyrethroids subproject (para 5.16);
and (vii) US$25,000 to assist NEVIKI in pre-operation training of plant
personnel (para 5.20).  Assurances were obtained from the Government and
the companies that all consultants will be selected according to Bank
guidelines, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
B.   Financing Plan, Borrowing and On-Lending Arrangements
6.04       Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of US$73 million would
cover about 23% of total estimated financing requirements and 55% of
foreign exchange requirements (in convertible currencies). NBH will pro-
vide the balance of foreign exchange requirements for all incremental work-
ing capital and investment, studies, training, design equipment and
clinical trials and drug registration expenses, necessary to complete the
Project.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that NBH will have access to the required foreign exchange for that
purpose, and from NBH that it will make it available to the Project enti-
ties.   The  State Development Bank  (SDB) will provide  local currency
subloans for the Dorog waste incinerator of Gedeon Richter.  The companies,
research institutes and VEGYTERV would provide abouit US$70.1 million out of
their own resources, or 22% of total Project costs. The Government would
provide about US$0.4 million out of budget funds in order to meet the local
costs of the proposed studies and of the training program and US$8.4
million to help meet the local costs of the Dorog waste incinerator. NBH
would provide the balance of funds (US$154.1 million) in the form of
sub-loans to Project beneficiaries.   NBH is seeking cofinancing from
foreign commercial banks to finance the foreign exchange gap (US$59.3
million) as well as part or all of local currency subloans (US$100.3
million). The financing plan is summarized below and further detailed by
companies and subprojects in Annex 6-2. Assurances were obtained from NBH,
the Government and the Project entities that they will promptly provide
their share of financing as detailed above.
Financing Plan
(USS million)
Debc E:uicy
Cofit-  Cofin-
anciers anciers  Projec:  (ovt.
IBRD  q'BH   SDB    Entciies Budget Toral
A. Production Investmentsa/
Fixed Assets        62.7    122.2  5.5    68.8   8.4    267.6
Inc. Working Capital  -    22.2   -        -    -    22.2
Subtotal           62.7    144.4  5.5    68.8  8..   289.8
B. Research & Development  1.8  S.9   -       1.0   -    9 p
C. Pilot larketing Overstions8a  7.6  2.8  -  0.1   -    10.5
D. Studies, Training &
Design Ecuipment      0.9   -       -       0.2  0.4  1.5
Total Prolect Costs   73.0    154.1  5.5    70.1  8.8   311.5
a/ Including related market studies (perar 5.10 and 5.26).



- 37 -
6.05       Borrowing and On-Lending Arrangements.  The Bank loan would be
extended to NBH, which would carry the foreign exchange risk.  The proceeds
of the Bank loan would be relent by NBH to the companies, the research
institutes, VEGYTERV and the Government (for the studies and training com-
ponents), except for the Dorog waste incinerators, for which the proceeds
of the Bank loan would be through SDB. All subloans would be at terms and
conditions described in para 6.07.  NBH and, for the Dorog incinerator,
SDB, would also make subloans to Project beneficiaries out of their own
resources or co-financing funds, at terms and conditions specified in paras
6.07 and 6.08.
6.06      In order to regulate the flow of resources from NBE to the bene-
ficiaries and set out the respective obligations of the various entities,
the following agreements would be signed:
(a)  a loan agreement between the Bank and the National Bank of
Hungary;
(b) a guarantee agreement between the Bank and the Hungarian People's
Republic;
(c) a Project agreement between the Bank and the Project entities
(BVK, Gedeon Ritcher, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal, Reanal, Nitrokemia,
Caola, GYKI, NEVIKI and VEGYTERV);
Cd) subsidiary loan agreements for the transfer of Bank funds between
NBH and SDB to finance the Dorog waste incinerator; and between
NBH and the Government for the study and training components;
(e)   subloan agreements between NBH and each one of the Project
entities; and
Cf) a subloan agreement between SDB and Gedeon Richter for the Dorog
waste incinerator.
Signature of the subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank,
listed under section (d) and of the subloan agreements between NBH and BVK,
Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis and Biogal (Section (e)) would be a condition
of effectiveness.  Signature of the remaining subloan agreements would be a
condition of disbursement under the respective subprojects.
6.07      Lending Terms and Conditions.  All proceeds of the Bank loan will
be relent to the Project entities at a rate at least equal to the Bank
standard variable rate plus a 30% mark up, comprising the 10% mark up
normally required from commercially-oriented entities and a 20% mark up to
cover the estimated foreign exchange risk. The resulting rate (14% at the
time of appraisal) is strongly positive since domestic inflation (9.5% in
1984) is projected to decrease to 8% in 1985 and 1986.   The interest rate
charged on subloans extended to beneficiaries by NBH and SDB (for the Dorog
incinerator) from other resources will be the standard rate specified in
the Credit Policy Guidelines of NBH.  These guidelines, which are revised
annually and approved by the Council of Ministers, set all credit policies
for the Hungarian Banking System.  At present, the standard rate is 14%.



- 38 -
6.08      Subloans from the proceeds of the Bank loan would have maturities
of not more than 15 years, including grace periods of not more than 4
years. It is expected that these terms would be the same for the Bank, NBH
and SDB portions, and would be determined according to the economic life of
the investment and cash flow requirements, within the limits set by the
Credit Policy Guidelines which became effective in January 1985.
Presently, starting from the date of first disbursement to the company,
maximum maturities are of 12 years on NBH subloans and 13 years on SDB
subloans including 3 years maximum grace period. Estimated terms for each
subproject are shown in Annex 6-3.   For drug registration expenses and
clinical trials under the pilot pharmaceutical pre-marketing component,
subloans would have a maximum maturity of 8 years.   At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the actual terms of the subloans in the
respective subloan agreements with the companies would be acceptable to the
Bank.
C.  Procurement
6.09        The procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized
below:
Procurement Method
(USS Million)
TCB   LCB  Other  Y1.A.  Total Cost
Equipment and Materials    70.4  61.1   9.4  18.7a/  159.6
(48.l)b/     (7.0)        (55.1)
Engineering and Licenses    9.7   8.1          17.8
(7.8)        (7.8)
Civil Works                50.5                50.5
Erection and CanmissioninX  2.n  35.6  12.5C/  50.1
(2.0)                     (2.0)
Studies and Training              1.3           1.3
(0.9)        (0.9)
Pharmaceutical Pre-marketing     10.0          10.0
(Clinical Trials)              (7.2)         (7.2)
Wlorking Capital     -        -        22.2   22.2
Total         72.4  156.9  41.3  40.9   311.5
(50.1)      (22.9)        (73.0)
LCB - Local comperitive bidding. N.A. - Sot applicable.
a/ Import duties.
b/ Figures ihown in brackets correspond so Bank financing.
c/ 25: of erection (for a total local cost of USS48.1 million equivalent)
vould be by force account.
Equipment financed by the Bank loan will generally be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) using procedures consistent with
Bank guidelines.   Hungarian will compete for equipment  contracts  but
companies are not expected to successfully bid for contracts amounting to
more than US$15 million in aggregate since the equipment to be financed by
the Bank is generally either not available in Hungary or the delivery
periods are too long.  Hungarian companies competing under ICB will be
eligible for a 15% preference on the CIF value of such bids. Exceptions to
ICB will be made for equipment proprietary to the process design, items
whose supply is critical for efficient Project execution and small items
under contracts each with estimated value of less than US$200,000, which



- 39 -
may be procured through limited international bidding from qualified
suppliers from at least three Bank member countries.   The aggregate' of
equipment contracts under the Bank loan to be procured under procedures
other than ICB will not exceed US$7 million equivalent. The Bank loan will
also be used to finance the foreign exchange costs of the erection
component of equipment contracts expected to be awarded on a supply and
erect basis after ICB, licenses, consultants' design and engineering
services for the process plants. Design and engineering services (for the
MDI plant and the incinerator) will be contracted in accordance with Bank
guidelines; the method for award of the contracts for the clinical trials
financed under the pilot marketing component will be determined after the
plan of action has been completed  (para 5.25).    Competition will  be
maximized to the extent possible.   Consultancy services for the various
studies will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  Equipment,
local expenditures in services and works will be procured under prevailing
local procedures which provide for efficient and economic procurement.
6.10       All bidding packages for equipment and materials estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent and bidding packages for licenses,
engineering and consultants services would be subject to the Bank's review
of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80Z of the
total estimated value of contracts.   In addition, the first 10 packages,
regardless of size, will be subject to Bank prior review. The balance of
contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract
award.   NBH will submit to the Bank for review a list or lists of all
procurement packages to be financed under the loan.  In the case of small
items urgently required and not exceeding US$50,000 in aggregate, NBH, will
notify the Bank that these are proposed for financing at the time of
issuance of the equities. Assurances were obtained in these respects.
D.   Disbursements
6.11          The Bank loan would be disbursed against direct foreign
expenditures and local currency costs ex-factory (excluding incremental
working capital) incurred by all Project entities and by the Government for
the  implementation  of  their  respective  subprojects.       The  proposed
allocation of the Bank loan is summaiized on the following page:



- 40 -
Allocation of Bank Loan
(thousand US$ e-quivalent)
-   Equipment Licenses
Spare Parts   Consultant
& Materials    Services   Other    Total
Gedeon Richter
Incinerator         4,900            -          -   4,900
Other               5,550           50          -   5,600
Chinoin
Pyrethroids          800             -          -     800
Other               6.935           65          -   7,000
Egis                  6,050           50         -   6,100
Biogal               6,Z50           50          -   6,300
Reanal                 400            -          -      400
Nitrokemla            3,000                      -   3,000
Caola                  700                       - -    700
BVK                  16,650        2,500         -   19,150
GYIKI                  600            30-               600
KEVIKI                1,320          30               1,350
VEGYTERV               400         6             -      400
Clinical Trials          -         6,400         -   6,400
Studies and Training     -           300         -      300
Unallocated              -            -       5,000   5,000
Special Account      55- 9,000
Total       53,555        9,445      10,000  73.000
of the US$73 million Bank loan, about US$50.1 million will be used to
finance equipment materials and spares procured under ICB, (including
foreign assistance required in mechanical erection) and US$3.0 million for
foreign engineering services for the Project and US$4.8 million for
licenses. It is anticipated that the Project will be completed by the end
of June 1989 and that the Bank loan will be completely disbursed by the end
of June 1990, in accordance with the disbursement schedule set forth in
Annex 6-4.  The schedule corresponds closely to the disbursement profile of
Bank-financed fertilizer and chemical industry projects.
6.12      Statement of expenditures will be used to disburse against con-
tracts valued at US$10,000 or less. NEH will not submit applications for
reimbursement totalling less than US$20,000. To accelerate payments of ICB
suppliers and reduce administrative work in the Bank for small disburse-
ments, a Revolving Fund (RF) would be established at NBH.  Deposits into
the RF would reflect actual need for financial resources as estimated.  The
RF would maintain a constant floor of Bank deposits of the equivalent of
the average four months' expenditures which are estimated to be about US$5
million and would be allowed upon request by NBH to increase at the time of
major ICB bid opening.  Records of the RF proceeds and outlays would be
kept in a special Project account to be held at the NBH and run parallel to
the master Project account.   A record of all contracts financed and a
permanent accounting record of operations financed would be kept by NBH and
be available for review by Bank supervision missions upon request. Pay-
ments from the RF would only be made for eligible expenditures indicated in
the Loan Agreement.  An audit report by an independent auditor on the RF



- 41 -
account and the statement of expenditures would be prepared and submitted
to the Bank not later than 5 months after the end of each fiscal year
during Project implementation (para 7.06).
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A. Revenues, Costs, Profitability and Cash Flows of Subprojects
7.01      Key financial results from the subprojects (in current terms) are
summarized in Annex 7-1, for the year 1990, which is, for all but three
subprojects the first year of full production and of heaviest debt
service.  All subprojects show good profitability (net profits range from
18% to 43% of sales), consistent with average profitability of sales in the
fine chemicals and pharmaceutical industries.  With the exception of the
Gedeon Richter injections plant, cash generated by the subprojects (net of
the 40% share of depreciation allowances transferred to the Government) is
sufficient to cover the associated debt, even in that year. In the case of
the Gedeon Richter injection plant, the incremental profits generated and
depreciation are insufficient to cover debt service payments in that
particular year, because only incremental revenues from additional
production have been shown, while a large portion of the costs are
associated with the reconstruction or modernization of the existing plant
to bring it up to GfP standards (para 5.04).   The projected financial
statements for the companies, however, show that this debt can easily be
serviced from existing as well as future operations (para 7.04).
B. Financial Rates of Return
7.02       Financial rates of return for the subprojects are presented in
Annex 7-2. They vary between 18% (for the MDI subproject) and 78% (for the
Chinoin Active Ingredients subproject). These rates of return were calcu-
lated over incremental costs and incremental benefits valued at prices of
mid-1984.    For  the pharmaceutical  and pyrethroids  subprojects, output
prices have been assumed to decline over time in real terms (para 8.03).
For the Gedeon Richter injection plant, the Biogal formulation plant and
the Egis liquid formulation plant, an assumption was made that present CC
exports associated with the existing plants would be lost unless the
existing facilities were brought up to GMP standards (para 8.04).   The
companies' standard allocations of R&D costs were included in operating
costs. Detailed assumptions and calculations are available in the Project
File, Reference C.
C. Projections of Companies' Financial Statements and Financial Covenants
7.03      Financial statements (income si:atement, balance sheet and source
and application of funds) were projected for BVR, Gedeon Richter, Chinoin,
Egis, Biogal and Nitrokemia.  For Reanal and Caola, the proposed invest-
ments represent less than 10% of their 1983 total assets; required average
equity contributions per year, less than 15% of total 1983 internal cash
generation; and incremental revenues to be derived from the subproject,
less than 15Z of their 1983 revenues. Their present and future financial
situation as well as those of VEGYTERV, NEVIKI and GYKI were reviewed in
detail by NBH, which found those entities creditworthy and in a position to



- 42 -
service their existing debt as well as that associated with the
subprojects.   The projected income and cash flow statements prepared by
these 5 companies are available in the Project File, Reference F.
7.04      The projected financial statements and key ratios for BVK, Gedeon
Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal, and Nitrokemia are summarized in Annex
7-5. Full details of the projections and assumptions used are available in
the Project File, Reference F.5/ Projections show that all six companies
are in a position to put up their share of financing requirements for the
subprojects out of funds generated from their existing operations.   They
also show that the companies will be in a position to repay the associated
debt while maintaining adequate financial ratios. Between 1984 and 1990,
the pharmaceutical companies are expected to maintain long-term debt/equity
ratios varying between 7/93 and 33/66; current ratios between 1.5 and 3.5
(except for Egis, with a ratio of 1.1 in 1983); and debt service coverage
ratios between 1.5 and 3.4, all of which are consistent with experience in
the pharmaceutical industry worldwide. With the recent rescheduling of its
long-term debt (para 4.11), BVK is expected to maintain a long-term debt/
equity ratio below 45/55, a current ratio of at least 1.5 and a debt ser-
vice coverage ratio of 1.4 in 1985, increasing to 2 and above by 1990,
which are also consistent with the range of ratios maintained by similar
petrochemical companies worldwide.   Nitrokemia is expected to maintain a
long-term debt/equity ratio below 20/80, a current ratio of above 2.0 and a
debt service coverage ratio of above 2.5. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that BVK, Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal and Nitrokemia
will maintain a long-term debt/equity ratio at or below 55145; a current
ratio at or above 1.3; and a debt service coverage ratio at or above 1.0 in
1985, and at or above 1.3 in subsequent years.
D. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.05      Each one of the Project entities (BVK, Gedeon Richter, Chinoin,
Egis, Biogal, Reanal, Nitrokemia, Caola, GYKI, NEVIKI and VEGYTERV), the
Ministry of Industry (for the study and training components) and NBH will
submit quarterly progress reports to the Project Coordination Office (para
5.32), which will consolidate them and forward them to the Bank no later
than four weeks after the end of each quarter. Such reports will include
progress and procurement status reports, including updated implementation
and disbursement schedules on each one of the subprojects.   BVK, Gedeon
Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal and Nitrokemia will also submit their
financial statements at the end of each semester.   NBH will retain the
financial statements of the other entities for Bank review during
supervision missions.   BVK will include a copy of the safety inspector's
annual report on the phosgene plant in the relevant progress report (para
5.17).   Finally, within four months after the closing date, the Project
entities,  NBH and  the Ministry  of  Industry will  provide  the Project
Coordination Office with the information necessary to prepare and furnish
5/   In early 1985, the Government changed the taxation system for the
enterprises.   Depreciation allowances are now fully retained by the
companies.   On the other hand, the companies are now subject to a
property tax and an investment tax.  We have reviewed the impact of
the changes in the projected financial statements and concluded that
they will not materially affect the results of the projections
summarized in this report.



- 43 -
to the Bank a Completion Report on the Project dealing with its
implementation, initial operation and the costs and benefits derived and
expected to be derived.
7.06        All Project entities, the Ministry of Industry, the Management
Training Center of the Ministry of Industry and NBH will keep separate
Project accounts. All Project accounts, the Revolving Fund, statements of
expenditures (para 6.12), and the financial statements of BVK, Gedeon
Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal, and Nitrokemia will be audited at the end
of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.   One
such auditor, the General Bank and Trust Company in Hungary, has been pro-
posed by the Government and has been assessed by the Bank as acceptable.
Short form annual audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank no later
than by the end of May each year.  The financial statements of the other
Project entities, audited in accordance with local procedures (para 4.10),
will be retained by NBH for Bank review during supervision.
E. Major Risks
7.07         Risks associated with the Project technology,  start-up and
operations are moderate as the Project is based on commercially proven
technologies and adequate arrangements have been made for training person-
nel for operation and maintenance.  Some of the pharmaceutical subprojects
involve scaling-up pilot operations to commercial size plants, but the
scale-up factors have been examined and are reasonable. Experience of the
concerned production and engineering companies with similar plants or
plants of similar complexity has shown that the risks of serious
implementation delays are minimal.
7.08      The major risks facing the Project concern the MDI and pharmaceu-
tical components. The pharmaceutical subprojects are largely multi-purpose
fermentation,  synthesis  and  formulation  plants.    Their  profitability
ultimately depends on the companies' ability to maintain their position in
the very competitive environment of the world pharmaceutical industry.
This in turn will depend on the effectiveness of the companies' research
and development efforts in continuously producing new, marketable drugs
and/or continuously improving process technologies of existing drugs to
reduce costs. This risk, however, is inherent to the pharmaceutical indus-
try everywhere in the world, and given the past experience of the Hungarian
industry (para 3.09) is considered acceptable. In addition, the financial
and economic analyses have been based only on those products which have
already been developed and scheduled for production during the first years
of operation, with appropriate assumptions concerning their likely rate of
obsolescence (paras 7.02 and 8.03). Even under these conservative assump-
tions (particularly since costs include standard R&D allocations), the
subprojects show adequate rates of return.
7.09      Another risk is that the companies' present sales do not keep up
with inflation.   However, it would take a 20% decrease in the companies'
total projected revenues by 1990 (or a 25% to 30% decrease in existing
sales in current terms) for two of the major companies to start
experiencing difficulties with some of the required liquidity ratios (the
debt device coverage ratio would decrease to 1.0 for Biogal).   However,
such a 20% decrease in revenues, for each of the four major companies would



- 44 -
mean that:   (a) either that they have failed to market any new product
between 1983 and 1990 and that all the existing products are becoming
obsolescent (at the average rate of real price decrease assumed for the
sub-projects); or (b) 70% to 100% of incremental sales from the Project
fail to materialize; or (c) all companies lose 80% to 100% of their present
CC exports  to  their  competitors.    Such occurrences  are however very
unlikely (para 3.09).
7.10         Regarding the pharmaceutical pre-marketing expenditures which
would be funded under the Project on a pilot basis, the financial risk for
the companies i's small, even if none of the selected products achieves
registration or is subsequently marketed in the selected country(ies).
Assuming that the four major companies share the associated financial
obligations in proportion to their total sales, the repayment obligations
would in all cases represent less than 10Z of the companies 1983 internal
cash generation (ICG) and less than 5% of their projected ICG in 1990 and
would in no case cause the financial ratios to fall below the prescribed
levels.   Total spending on this pilot component accounts for only 5% of
total Project investments in pharmaceuticals.
7.11       Regarding the MDI subproject, the main risk lies in BVK's inabi-
lity to develop competitive polyurethane systems for CC markets and appro-
priate sales strategies and back-up service, which would compel BVK to sell
straight MDI on CC markets at discounted prices.   However, the risks are
being minimized by steps already taken by BVK to build up its R&D capabili-
ties, by the proposed marketing consulting assistance (paras 3.17 and 5.09)
and by the planned changes in BVK's internal organization (para 4.11).
Another risk is that MDI prices fail to recover to the projected levels
(para 3.14).   However, in both events the subproject would still remain
economically and financially justified and BVK would still be in a position
to repay the associated debt (were BVK's total projected revenues to fall
by 20% below projected levels, the company's current ratio would decrease
to 1.2 and the debt service coverage ratio to 1.0).
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
8.01         Economic rates of return were calculated for each individual
production subproject, accounting for 84% of total Project costs.   The
overall economic rate of return for the Project (excluding the incinerator,
the pilot marketing operation, the cost of the studies and the research and
development investments) is estimated at 36%.  The aggregate net present
value, assuming a 12% opportunity cost of capital, is estimated at about
US$201.6 million.
A. Assumptions
8.02        Gene al Assumptions.  Financial incremental costs and benefits
in 1984 terms were adjusted to exclude import duties and taxes on equipment
and  raw  materials  and  all  sales  taxes  (the  latter  are  negligible).
Financial prices of outputs and inputs  reflect efficiency prices  (para
2.22) since they are based on international prices (whatever the destina-
tion of sales), after adjustments have been made to take into account dif-
ferences in transportation and distribution costs.  Except as specified in



- 45 -
the following paragraphs, no adjustments have therefore been made to base
prices. The cost of energy was adjusted to reflect the long run marginal
cost of power (US$0.044 per kwh).
8.03         Pharmaceuticals and Plant Protection Chemicals (pyrethroids).
Although almost all Project facilities are multi-purpose and permit quick
changes in production plans depending on market and price conditions, the
cost/benefit analyses (financial as well as economic) of all pharmaceutical
and of the pyrethroids subprojects are based on the continued production
over ten years of specific, already developed products which thecompanies
have selected for the first years of plant operation and for which they
have provided market justifications.  Their prices have been projected to
decrease over time as patents expire and because pharmaceutical and plant
protection industries worldwide continuously develop new, better products
and/or less costly competing processes.   In order to take these factors
into account, prices have been assumed to decrease by 3% per year in real
terms, except when different rates of change were found justified (prices
may  decrease  rather  sharply when  patents  expire).    In  che  case  of
formulation plants,  prices of active ingredients were decreased corres-
pondingly, but in the case of plants producing active ingredients prices of
intermediates were maintained constant over time in real terms.  Detailed
assumptions on each subproject are available in the Project File,
Reference C.
8.04      Three pharmaceutical subprojects consist of the reconstruction or
upgrading of existing formulation facilities (as well as their expansion)
so that they can conform to international standards (paras 5.04, 5.06 and
5.07).  For these, part of the benefits of the Project consists of export
losses avoided, since failure to comply with these standards would certain-
ly entail losses of practically all CC exports associated with these faci-
lities within the coming five years and probably of Ruble exports as well
(in the base case, only CC exports were taken into account).   In 1983,
these export revenues were as follows:
Export Revenues from Existing Plants
(1983)
---Million Forints--
CC             Ruble
Gedeon Richter - Injections           288.2             930.0
Egis - Liquid Formulations             46.4              48.1
Biogal - Formulations                  52.0             356.0
494.9           1,435.8
(in US$ million):                   (11.0)           (32.0)
8.05        Intermediates.   For the Caola Sulfonation and the Nitrokemia
Monochloroacetic acid subprojects, which essentially aim at import substi-
tution, benefits were valued at the CIF equivalent prices.   These were
maintained constant over the whole period since these products have a wide
variety of uses and do not therefore depend on market prospects for speci-
fic specialities.
8.06       Ion Exchange Resins.  Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculations
are based on a weighted average price of ion exchange resins (both types)
of US$1,850 per m3 (corresponding to US$814 per m3 of cation exchange
resins and US$2,280 per m3 of anion exchange resins), which correspond to



- 46 -
prices received by Nitrokemia on its 1984 sales of resins in Western Europe
(prices  in  the  US  were  substantially  higher).    Because  continuous
developments occur in zhe type and variety of ion exchange available
worldwide, obsolescence has also been built into calculations (prices in
real terms were forecast to decrease by 3% per year).
8.07         MDI.  The MDI plant is expected to start operation in early
1988. Capacity utilization has been projected at 60% in 1988, 80% in 1989
and 95% subsequently.  The output mix has been assumed to be 20% pure and
80% polymeric MDI. As discussed in Chapter III (para 3.16), prices of MDI
are expected to recover by 1987. In real terms this would represent a 15X
to 20% increase over their 1984 level. Subsequently, they are expected to
follow projected trends in prices of aniline (the main raw material) which
are expected to decrease slightly in real terms between 1987 and 1990 and
slowly increase afterwards. Prices for the plant output were consequently
derived from average market prices for bulk material in Western Europe,
adjusted for transportation (US$ 35 per ton) to arrive at the border
price.   MDI price assumptions used in both the financial and economic
analyses are detailed in Annex 7-3.
8.08        The structure of MDI production costs (assuming 10OZ capacity
utilization) is summarized in Annex 7-4. Projected prices for raw materi-
als and utilities are presented in Annex 7-5.  Aniline, the single most
iaportant cost item, has been valued at prices charged by East European
producers on their exports to Western Europe (although it is expected that
BVK will purchase its aniline requirements from Czechoslovakia in exchange
for MDI). These prices are presently low, at about US$600 per ton. There
is at present a large surplus capacity of aniline in Western Europe (capa-
city utilization is only 70%) and worldwide, and this overcapacity is
expected to persist beyond 1990. Prices of aniline are therefore expected
to further decline until 1992, at which date they are projected to slowly
increase to keep pace with projected increases in prices of benzene, its
major raw material.   Details on price projections for benzene, aniline,
other raw materials and MDI are available in the report of Arthur D. Little
on the MDI subproject (Project File, Reference D).
8.09         Besides excluding import duties and taxes from capital and
operating costs and adjusting energy costs to reflect their efficiency
value (para 8.01), the following adjustments were made to financial prices
to arrive at the economic rate of return:  (a) Chlorine has been valued at
its marginal cost of production (USS 25 per ton), after deducting the value
of its by-product, caustic soda (sold to the alumina industry at US$200 per
ton); this assumption is justified by the fact that BVK's existing chlorine
facilities are at present underutilized; and (b) carbon monoxide, a bypro-
duct of existing ammonia production has been priced at fuel equivalent (US$
41 per ton). However, it is possible that the present old ammonia plant
will be replaced (which could occur by 1992).   In a modern unit carbon
monoxide will not be a by-product from the process and it will have to be
manufactured (at a small additional capital cost) from synthesis gas
diverted from ammonia production. Beyond 1992, carbon monoxide has conse-
quently been valued at the price of ammonia production foregone CUSS 150
per ton).
B. Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Value
8.10       ERRs and net present values for each one of the subprojects are
summarized in Annex 7-2. ERRs, which are all acceptable, vary between 19%



- 47 -
C. Sensitivity Analysis
8.11       A series of tests were carried out on each subproject, which are
summarized in Annex 8-1.   For the pharmaceutical subprojects, the main
risks include a faster rate of obsolescence than expected, resulting in
steeper price declines. These adverse effects are generally compensated by
often changing production plans and continuous product development and
appropriate R&D allocations have been included for that purpose. It would,
however, require a 20% further decrease in revenues, or a 30% increase in
operating costs for some subprojects to become uneconomic (the Egis
Veterinary Preparations and the Biogal Surgical Plasters subprojects).
This is unlikely though, because of the stringent assumptions used in the
base case (at least 3% annual price decrease in real terms).
8.12       Regarding the MDI investment, the subproject shows most sensiti-
vity to the price of aniline, its main raw material, and of MDI (Annex 8-1,
page 2). However, given the world overcapacity of aniline production, and
the planned contractual arrangements between Hungary and Czechoslovakia, it
is unlikely that prices of aniline will increase substantially over the
coming 10 years and the subproject remains justified even with a 50%
increase in aniline prices (USS 900 per ton). As explained earlier (para
8.07), MDI prices are expected to recover from their presently depressed
level by 1987.   However, even if they were to remain constant at present
levels, the subproject would still be economically justified.  MDI prices
may also be below expected levels if BVK fails to develop systems and has
to sell straight MDI to systems houses at a discount (estimated at about
10% below levels shown in para 3.16), in which case, the economic rate of
return would decrease to 14%.  On the other hand, the markup on MDI if
innovative systems are successfully developed may increase significantly
the returns of the subproject.
D. Foreign Exchange Savings
8.13       Net CC savings and earnings prior to repayment of the foreign
debt (CC) incurred under the project are estimated at about USS105.8
million per year at Project completion.   These savings result from about
US$90.5 million of increased exports (net of associated incremental raw
materials imports) and US$15.3 million of import savings (raw materials and
intermediates). A breakdown of these earnings and savings by subproject is
provided in Annex 8-2. Since the foreign exchange component of the Project
is estimated at US$132.3 million, the foreign exchange pay-back period for
the Project is less than 2 years.
E. Other Benefits and Policy Measures
8.14       Important energy savings are expected from t'-e availability in
Hungary of MDI-based insulation material for the building industry.  Assum-
ing that 40% of the domestic MDI consumption is used for building
insulation, energy savings may be estimated at between 60,000 and 120,000
tons of oil equivalent  (TOEs) per year.   Such savings could result in
additional foreign exchange savings (net of imported materials required for
manufacturing PUs) of about USS 4 to 8 million per year.



-48 -
8.15      The proposed measures leading to the removal of obsolescent drugs
from compulsory production or proper compensation of pharmaceutical compa-
nies (para 2.26) should help improve their profitability.   The proposed
funding of clinical trials and registration expenses abroad at terms and
conditions consistent with those charged for investment in fixed assets,
and the associated assurance that the Government will provide the foreign
exchange necessary for the subsequent marketing of the successfully
registered products will reflect a new recognition of the importance of
marketing activities in the pharmaceutical industry.
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01       The following assurances and agreements have been obtained from
the Government, NBH and the Project entities:
A.   From the Government that it will:
(a)  take action as specified in Para 2.26 to promptly remove
obsolescent drugs from the list of drugs which the companies
have the obligation to produce or compensate them for losses
incurred in their production (paras 2.25 and 2.26);
Cb)  take  all  action  (including  the  enactment  of  new  air
pollution regulations and the provision means for their
enforcement) to ensure that the subprojects are carried out
in accordance with environment, health and safety standards
satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.14);
Cc)  make available funds and other resources required for the
completion of air incinerator in the North Eastern part of
Hungary prior to the end of January 1989 (para 5.15); and
provide its share of financing for the Dorog incinerator so
that Gedeon Richter can complete it by January 1989 (para
6.04);
(d)  make the foreign exchange required for the actual marketing
of the products selected for the pharmaceutical pilot
pre-marketing operation available to the companies at the
proper time (para 5.25);
(e)  maintain  a  coordination  office  for  the  Project  with
functions as detailed in Para 5.31;
(f)  make available  to NBTi the  foreign  exchange  required  to
complete the Project (para 6.04);
(g)  provide  the necessary funds  to complete the studies and
training program (para 6.04);
(h)  ensure that consultants for the studies referred to in para
5.27 are contracted not later than by the end of June 1986;
that the strategic planning specialists are contracted by
the end of June 1986 (para 5.30); and that all consultants
are selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines and on terms



- 49 -
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.03); and
(i) follow auditing and reporting requirements as stipulated in
paras 7.05 and 7.06.
B. From NBE that it will:
(a)  make available to the Project entities the foreign exchange
required to complete the project; and provide its share of
local funds required to complete the Project (para 6.04);
(b)  make subloans to Project entities at terms and conditions
specified in paras 6.07 and 6.08;
(c)  submit to the Bank for review a list or lists of procur_ment
packages for financing under the loan (para 6.10);
(d)  follow auditing and reporting requirements as stipulated in
paras 7.05 and 7.06.
C. From the Project entities that:
(a)  BVK will submit to the Bank for review a comprehensive
market plan, including detailed marketing arrangements, for
MDI-based polyurethane systems no later than June 1987 (para
3.17); and for that purpose will hire specialized
consultants no later than by the end of June 1986 (para
5.09);
(b) BVK would present to the Bank, no later than by December
1985 a proposal satisfactory to the Bank on the management
structure of the polyurethane activity (para 4.07);
(c)  BVK will contract foreign engineering services for the MDI
plant no later than by end of August 1985 (para 5.12);
(d)   all entities will ensure that all Project facilities are
designed and operated in accordance with environment, health
and safety regulations satisfactory to the Bank and with
design features agreed upon with the Bank (para 5.14 and
Annex 5-3);
(e)  Gedeon Richter will complete the organic waste incinerator
at Dorog prior to January 1989 (para 5.15);
(f)  Chinoin will carry out a Hazard and Operability Study for
the design of the pyrethroid facilities prior to completion
of detailed engineering and for that purpose will contract
consultants acceptable to the Bank and will implement the
recommendations arising from the study prior to plant
start-up (para 5.17);
(g)  BVK will carry out (a) a Hazard and Operability Study for
the phosgene plant; (b) a Hazard and Operability Study for
the MDI plant; (c) a Risk Assessment Study for the MDI,



- 50 -
phosgene, and related facilities; (d) carry out such studies
and analysis prior to completion of detailed engineering for
the Hazard and Operability Studies and prior to mechanical
completion for the Risk Assessment Study using specialized
international consultants, where required, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; forward the studies to
the Bank for review and (e) implement their recommendations
prior to the MDI plant start-up (para 5.17);
(h) Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis and Biogal will complete the
draft plan of action for the pre-marketing operation by
December 31, 1985; and recruit a consultant for its review
by March 30, 1986 (para 5.27);
(i) all entities will promptly provide their share of financing
for the various components (para 6.04);
(j) BVK, Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis, Biogal and Nitrokemia
will maintain financial ratios as specified in para 7.04;
tk)   the relevant entities will ensure that the consultants
referred to in paras 6.03 (ii), (iii), (v) and (vi) are
selected according to Bank Guidelines and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(1)  all entities will foilow auditing and reporting requirements
as detailed in paras 7.05 and 7.06.
9.02      The signing of subsidiary loan agreements between NBH and SDB and
between NBH and the Government and of subloan agreements between NBH (BVK,
and Gedeon Richter, Chinoin, Egis and Biogal satisfactory to the Bank, as
set out in para 6.06 and the establishment of the Project Coordination
Office (para 5.30) will be a conditions of effectiveness. The signing of
subloan agreements between NBH and Nitrokemia, Reanal, Caola, NEVIKI, GYKI
and VEGYTERV and between SDB and Gedeon Richter; and of a marketing
contract  for  the  Pyrethroids  subproject  would  be  conditions  of
disbursements under the respective subprojects.
9.03             On  the  basis  of  the  staff  appraisal  and  the  above
recommendations, the Project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of
US$73 million at the Bank's variable interest rate, for 15 years including
three of grace.   The establishment of a Revolving Fund of US$5 million
(para 6.12) is recommended under the proposed loan.  This loan would be
made to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) and would be guaranteed by the
Government.
Industry Department
February 1985



- 5I -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
THE CHeMICAL SUBSECTOR
Table 1 -    GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE AND VALUE ADDED OF MANUFACTURING
AND CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
(in coastant prices)
Billion Forints
----1976 prices---               --1981 prices----
1960    1970    1975    1980    1980    1981    1982
Gross Production Value
Total Manufacturing            294.7   424.9*  582.2   688.7   876.3   899.9   922.7
Chemical Ind.                   16.8    55.4    91.4   124.4   197.8   202.4   205.5
(Z)                             (5.7)  (13.0)  (15.7)  (18.1)  (22.6)  (22.5)  (22.3)
Value Added
Total Manufacturing             a.a.   115.3   168.5   210.6   186.7   201.7   213.5
Chemical Ind.                   n.a.   n.a.     28.0    38.2    28.6    30.2    32.4
(Z)                             n.a.   n.a.    (16.6)  (18.2)  (15.3)  (15.0)  (15.2)
Source: Central Statistical Office, Statistical Yearbooks.
* - Estimated.
Table 2 -         ANNUAL GROWTH RATES OF GROSS PRODUCTION
VALUE OF INDUSTRIAL SUBSECTORS - 1970-82
Constant 1980 prices (Z)
Growth Rate
1970-80    1980-82
Industry Total                                  4.8         2.6
Mining                                           1.3       -0.1
Metallury                                        3.3       -2.4
Engineering                                      5.5        4.9
Building Materials                               4.7        0.1
Chemical Industry                                8.4        2.0
Light Industry                                   3.9        1.3
Food Industry                                    4.0        3.8
Others                                            -          -
Source: Central Statistical Office, Statistical Yearbooks.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
THE CHEMICAL SUBSECTOR
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
Table 3 -         GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE BY BRANCHES, 1982
z
Including        Excluding
Ref ining and    Refining and
Million      Town Gas        Town Gas
Forints     Production      Production
Refining                          87,899        40.3
Town gas production               20,165         9.3             -
Inorganic chemicalsa/              5,185         2.4            4.7
Fertilizers                       13,790         6.3            12.6
Basic and intermediate
petrochemicalsb/                 28,442        13.1           25.9
Plastics processing               13,174         6.0            12.0
Pharmaceuticals                   19,554         8.9            17.8
Plant protection chemicals         8,382         3.8            7.6
Other fine chemicals               9,219         4.2            8.4
Rubber processing                  7,742         3.6             7.0
Non-chemical activities            4.374         2.1            4.0
Total                       217,896       100.0          100.0
Source:  VEGYTERV (from data provided by the Centeral Statistical Office
and enterprises).
a/  Caustic soda, chlorine, industrial gases.
bI   Olefins, aromatics, intermediates, monomers and polymers (for
plastics, resins and fibres).



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMIC;LS PROJECT
THE CHEMICAL SUBSECIDR
Table 4 -                   ANNUAL GROWTH RATES
IN GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE OF VARIOUS CHEMICAL BRANCHES
(in constant prices)
1970-78   1979   1980   1981   1982
Petroleum refining                        5.5     5.5  -9.0   -1.6   -0.2
Town gas manufacturing                   10.5     3.2   17.3    7.8   10.4
Organic and inorganic chemicalsa/                                2.2b/  2 2b,
Fertilizer and plant protection          12.2     9.2    1.5    1 3     1, 1*3b/
Synthetic chemicalscI                                           2.8'  2.8 o
Processing of synthietic chemicals        9.5     2.6  -2.5
Pharmaceuticals                          13.5     5.7   -0.6   12.3    7.1
Rubber processing                        10.9     0.5   -2.9    1.3  -3.7
Household chemicals and comestics        n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   11.1b/ 11.1b
Total Chemical Industry              9.6     5.9   -2.2    2.9    2.0
Source:  Central Statistical Office, Industrial Statistical Yearbooks.
a/   Esentially: Inorganic: Chlorine, caustic soda, industrial gases,
sulfuric and nitric acids.
Organic:  Olefins and aromatics, petrochemical
intermediates, and monomers.
b/  Average annual growth rate between 1980 and 1982.
c/   Polymers (for plastics, resins, fibres, paints, varnishes, etc.)



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
THE CHEMICAL SUBSECTOR
Table 5 -    STRUCTURE OF ImPORTS AND EXPORTS OF THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY - 1982
(billion Forints)
Imports                       Exports
Ruble    Convertible           Ruble   Convertible
Trade    Currencies   Total   Trade   Currencies   Total
Raw materialsa/          4.5         7.7       12.2    0.6         3.0         3.6
Intermediates7sem-
finished products       9.3        32.0       41.3    6.7        19.0       25.7
Finished products        8.5         2.0       10.5    8.3         4.9       13.2
Total             22.3         41.7       64.0   15.6        26.9       42.5
a/   Excluding crude oil and fuels.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of External Trade, 1982.
Industry Department
December 1984



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-2
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
THE REGULATORY SYSTEM FOR APPROVAL OF NEW PHARMACEUTIVAL PRODUCTS
1.        Most countries require that new pharmaceutical products, before
being allowed to go on sale, should be approved by their regulatory
authorities. To receive such approval, the product will need to satisfy
the authorities on safety, quality and efficacy standards. The initial
process consists of ensuring that a New Chemical Entity (NCE) passes
certain ..pecific pharmacological and toxicological tests in animals. Only
when these tests have been completed successfully can an application be
made to the authorities for clinical trials in humans to commence.
2.        Phase I clinical trials involve testing the NCE on healthy human
volunteers under very carefully controlled conditions. Phase II clinical
trials involve testing the NCE, also under carefully controlled conditions,
on a limited number of patients suffering from the condition which the drug
is intended to alleviate. These trials include double-blind techniques to
ensure objectivity. Phase III clinical trials involve testing the NCE on a
much larger sample of patients (500-1,000) under normal hospital
conditions, and only when these trials have been successfully concluded can
the dossier requesting regulatory approval for marketing be put forward to
the authorities. Typically, the whole process can take from eight to
twelve years and the clinical trials alone can take up to seven years and
cost anything between $5 million and $10 million in Western Europe (and
considerably more in the U.S.). Apart from government approval, each set
of clinical trials needs to be agreed with 'ethical' committees (which
include laymen) where the risks involved are fully explained.
3.        After marketing, there is an additional process of Phase IV
trials and post-marketing surveillance studies so as to pick up any side
effects of adverse reactions that have not been made apparent during
earlier clinical trials because of the limited number of patients involved.
4.        The total cost of marketing a NCE includes toxicological and
pharmacological testing and also takes account of the fact that out of
every ten to fifteen thousand substances studied for biological activity
(screening process at the research stage), only one goes forward for
further development. Also that out of every 8 drugs that reach the
clinical stage only one reaches the market.
Industry Department
December 1984



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-1
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
PAST AND PROJECTED WORLD PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE AND
HUNGARIAN CC EXPORTS
(US$ million)
in 1984 Constant Terms
Developed     Developing
Countries      Countries      Total
World Imports (Market Economies)
1980a/                                 8,900          4,300        13,200
199ov-/                               13,300          7,200       20,500
Incremental Imports                    4,400          2,900         7,300
Hungarian CC Exports
1983a/                                    71             48           119
1990                                      99             87           186
of which:
Incremental Exports from
the Project                               28            39            67
Hungarian CC Sales as Z of World Imports
1983                                      0.8           1.1           0.9
1990                                     0.7            1.2           0.9
Hungarian Incremental CC Sales as Z of
World Incremental Imports
(1983-1990)                              0.6            1.3           0.9
a/   Adjusted to 1984 prices using the Unit Value Index of Manufactured
Exports.
bI   Assuming that world trade continues to grow at the same pace as world
production (and consumption); that the latter grows at 4.5% per year
in real terms; and that the distribution of imports between
developed and developing countries remains identical.
Sources: For actual data - U.N. Yearbook of International Trade
Statistics, as adjusted as indicated above, and MEDIMPEX (for
Hungarian data). For projections - Bank estimates, based on the
review of UNCTAD, industry and independent consultants sources.
Industry Department
January 1985



- 57 -
AMUC 3-2
FfE       AS PW
MJEBD W.1W CWIPUR AND Nl2NxL s  (F M UTEES P  X
imW= B! lSERiMCiCLAS
Ofimon US$)
*  brld aounuLon            Project Inmertal Outpit
in contant 1980 tens          in               Z Of
AchLal  Pro                    1984 a/      1990      n i1
1980      1990    lacren.     TePn        Deid    Rt
&bman Use
&azdiorasculars         13,100    25,000    11,900        14          0.1          0.2
Ati-Ifetie
hiti-cancer           14,700    24,300      9,600        30         0.2          0.5
InterLl liine           11,900    16,800     4,900         -          -            -
Pain Coatrol            11,100    16,300      5,200        2          ...          0.1
Nutritioca               6,000    10,400      4,400        11         0.2          0.4
Ppfratory                6,400     9,100      2,70         ...                     -
Mental Health            6,300     8,800      2,500         1         ...          0.1
Otler                   12,200    19,400     7,200        22         0.2          0.5
Total              81,700   130,000    48,300         80         0.1          0.2
Veeiay  Us
Aitibacterial          2,000(82) 4,075      2,075        3          0.1          0.2
dAt1bJmdntirs            450     2,320      1,870        4          0.3          0.3
a/ Mhese values sbor little cionge ih  deflated by the tLit Value Tndex of  -enufactred
~cport t brig  2n to 1980 tem,
..ie te US$0.5 mnl1isn.
Source: Actu1 and Projected Irld onstmptim of Drugs for PAne Use: Arkw D. Little
Proect outpit: Subprojects uiret stdies.
Drog for Veteriary Use: Medbwcex Veterinary Study - 1983.
LO& try eprtlnt
ecember 1984



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-3
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
PAST AND PROJECTED GROWTH OF HUNGARIAN
PHARMACEUTICAL SALES AND EXPORT - 1983 - 1990
(millions US$)
In Constant      In Current         Average Annual Growth
1984 Terms          Terms          Rate (Current Terms) (Z)
1983     1990    1983    1990       1975-83         1983-90
Total Sales                        425        503    411      767         10               8
of which: Project             (-)        (92)   (-)    (138)
Other              (425)     (425)  (411)   (629)
Total Exports                      300        385    290      570           9              9
of which: Project             (-)        (85)    -      -Z128)
Other              (300)   (3,000)  (290)   (442)
CC Exports                         119        182    115      279          9              12
of which: Project             (-)         67     -      (103)
Other               119       119   (115)   (176)
World Sales Annual Growth
(in current terms)                                                   15a/            12b/
a/   1975-90 Actual
bl  Projected 1980-90
Industry Department
January 1985



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL PHARMACEUTICAL SALES FROM THE PROJECT
BY TYPE OF PRODUCTS AND MARKETS - 1990
(Million US$)
in 1984 constant terms
--         --Destination of Sales-----
Domestic    CMEA       Conv. Currency Countries
Type of Product         Market   Countries   Developed       Developing    Total
A. Active Ingredients
Generics                   1.0         1.2          3.0           3.4          8.6
Own Process Patent         0.7         1.1          1.2           1.3          4.3
Manufactured under
license                  1.7        0.2          1.7            1.0          4.6
Originals                  0.2         1.4         13.2           -           14.8
Sub-total             3.6        3.9         19.1            5.7         32.3
B.  Formulations
Generics                   4.4         5.2         6.1           29.6         45.3
Own Process Patent         0.2         1.3         2.6            1.8          5.9
Manufactured under
license                  2.3        2.9          0.1            0.8          6.1
Originals                  0.1         1.7         0.2            0.8          2.8
Sub-total             7.0       11.1          9.0           33.0         60.1
Total                10.5        15.0        28.1           38.7         92.3
industry Department
December 1984



- 60 -
ANIES 3-5
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
ESTIMTED             L PAMACEUTICAL SALES FROM THE PROJECT
BY THERAPEUTIC CLASSES - 1990
(uj111Dion USS)
Active Ingredients       Formlations         Total
No.       Value        No.      Value       Value
Drugs for }mmn Use
Ant-infcstivers                   3         5.4         13        22.6        28.0
Cardiovasculars                   5         7.0          7         6.7        13.7
Vitamns                          -          -            3        10.6        10.6
Osteoporosis                      1         6.8          -         -           6.8
muscle relaants                   1         4.7          L          1.0        5.7
Gastroirtestl1al                 -          -            3         2.9         2.9
Antiparklnsonisi                  1         2.0          -         -           2.0
Dermatological                    1         1.4          -         -           1.4
Cytostatics                      -          -            1         2.0         2.0
Anaesthetics                      -         -            3          1.7        1.7
Antiallergics                    -          -            2         1.0         1.0
Phychotherapeutics               -          -            3         0.6         0.6
Analgesics                       -          -            1         0.5         0.5
Respiratory Tract                -          -            1         0.4         0.4
Oxytocics                        -          -            1         0.5         0.5
Hormones-                        -          -            1         0.1         0.1
Other                            -          -            -         0.6         0.6
Diagnostic Agents                _          -            -         1.6         1.6
Sub-total                  12        27.3          -0        52.8       80.1
Drugs for Veterinary Use
Aatheluintics (hatiinfectives)   2         2.6           1         0.7         3.3
Antibacterial (Antiinfectives)   3         2.4           3         1.5         3.9
Ozytocics                        -         -             1         4.9         4.9
Anaesthetics                     -         -             1         0.2         0.2
Sub-total                   5         5.0           6         7.3        12.3
Total                            17       32.3          46        60.1        92.4
Industry Department
December L984



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-6
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
IDI - ESTDIATED MARKETS FOR PROJECTED OUTPUT
(thousand tons per year)
1988       1989       1990       1995
Domestic Sales                       4.5        5.0        5.5         7.5
Exchanges with:
Czechoslovakia                     3.2        3.9        4.1        4.1
Yugoslavia                         4.8        5.6        6.4        6.4
Other exports                        2.5        5.5        7.8         5.8
Total Output                   15.0       20.0       23.8 a/    23.8 a/
Source: Arthur D. Little.
a/ Assuming that the plant is operated at 95% of capacity.
Industry Department
January 1985



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-7
HUGARY
FINE CHENIC&S PROJECT
IO1 EXCHANGE RESINS
ACTUAL PROOWCTION. PROJECTED WORLD MAKET IEQuIREMEINTS AM SUPPLY
AND DESTINATION OF PROJECT OUTPUT
(thousand =.-I)
Projected
World       NITROKEIA        Incre-
World    Require-   Esti-               mental
Production  ments and   mated  Projected  Project
in 1983     Supply a/ Sales    Sales   Output
(Actual)    1990      1984      1990
Hungary                                         1,200     2,000      800
Western Europe            63,500     75,000      700     5,800     5,100
North America             72,500     82,500    1,820    3,200       1,380
Other CC Countries        25,000     27,500        -      1,500     1,500
CMEA                      65,000b/   85 ,000/ 2.300      3,000       700
Total               226,000     270,000    5,020    15,500    9,480
Source: Nitrokemia.
a/ 'Including from the project.
bI Including Hungary.
Industry Department
January 1985



- 63 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1
NEZIONAL BANr OF  UNGARY - FNANCIAL STATEMIEW  (1979-83)
A - BALANCE SHEET
(as of December 31)
(Billion Forints)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Assets
Gold, currency. foreign exchange
holdings, secure. & accounts        74.8      78.4    65.1    38.9    78.5
Advances, loans & credits
Medium & long term:
Banks                              143.7    152.6   162.2   170.6   170.4
Enterprises                        185.8    188.7   189.5   185.7   186.6
State budget                        20.3      23.7    26.7    31.7    32.4
Subtotal                         349.8    365.0   378.4.  388.0   389.6
short-tern credit:
Banks                               17.8      19.2    24.8    37.4    33.7
Enterprises                         75.4      92.0   103.0   114.2   120.4
State budget                         0.5       0.6     0.3      0.9     1.0
Subtotal                          93.7    111.8   128.9   152.6   155.1
Other Assets                         28.1      26.4    27.3    68.1    84.7
Total Assets                     546.4    581.6   599.7   647.6   707.9
Liabilities & Equity
Authorized capital                    6.0       6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0
Reserves                              2.1       2.3     3.5      4.4     4.5
Profit                               10.4       9.8    10.5      7.5    13.0
Total Equity                      18.5      18.1    20.0    17.9    23.5
Term deposits:
Banks                              215.6    219.8   225.2   297.8   291.7
Enterprises                         80.2     88.5    90.9    46.1    41.1
State budget                         1.5       1.3     1.8      1.9     7.0
Subtotal                         297.3    309.6   317.9   345.8   339.8
Sight deposits and accounts
Banks                               79.8     82.8    84.7    68.2    82.0
Enterprises                         60.5      67.4    70.0    79.6    78.5
State budget                        10.8      12.6     6.0      8.6     9.6
Other                                8.5    -10.6    10.5    10.9    10.8
Subtotal                         159.6    173.4   171.2   167.4   181.0
Notes and coins                     63.5     72.8    81.3    87.3    97.9
ID  Deposits                         -         -       -        -      46.7
Other liabilities                    7.5       7.7     9.3    29.2    19.0
Total liabilities & equity       546.4    581.6   599.7   647.6   707.9
-           m
Source: National Bank of Hungary
Industry Department
December 1984



-64-
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1979-83)
B -INCOME STATEMENT (1979-83)
(as of December 31)
(Billion Forints)
1979     1980     1981    1982      1983
Income
Interest earned                 37.2     41.5     45.3    51.9      54.2
Commissions charged              4.3      4.6       5.2     5.2      6.3
Fees, charges and other          0.5      0.5       0.3     0.2      0.4
Total                      42.1     46.6     50.8    57.3      60.9
Expenditures
Expenditures on money
circulation                     0.7      0.6       0.7     1.0      0.9
Interest                        30.0     35.0      37.9    47.3     45.3
Commissions                      0.2      0.2       0.5     0.4      0.6
Ad&inistrative costs and
other costs                     0.8      0.9       1.2     1.1      1.1
Total                       31.7     36.7     40.3    49.8      47.9
Profit                          10.4      9.9      10.5     7.5     13.0
Total                       42.1     46.6     50.8    57.3      60.9
Source: National Bank of Hungary
Industry Department
December 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 7
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
THE PROJECT ENTITIES
A. Production Enterprises
(a) Borsod Chemical Works (BVK)
1.        BVK, which is located near Miscolc, in the northeastern part of
Hungary (map), was founded in 1949 and is today the second largest petro-
chemical enterprise of Hungary. It employs a total of 6,700 workers.
Total sales in 1983 amounted to over Ft 10 billion (US$206 million). BVK
is essentially a producer of commodity chemicals. PVC products and
fertilizer are its major activities, accounting in 1983 for 58Z and 16Z of
sales, respectively. Other activities include plastic processing (15%), a
caprolactam plant (to be shut down soon), plasticizers for PVC and various
intermediates for plant protection chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
2.        In spite of high capacity utilization, increased production and
efforts to save energy and to develop downstream products, profitability
declined significantly in 1982 and 1983 due to the combined effect of
important world price decreases in both fertilizers and plastics in the
early 80s. Ex-factory PVC prices, in particular, dropped from US$750 per
ton of PVC powder in 1981 to US$300 per ton in 1983. Although recovering
(US$500 to US$550 in 1984), they were at the time of appraisal still
significantly lower than in 1981. Lower than expected profits strained the
company' s cash flow to such an extent that, in 1984, it was unable to repay
the accrued maturity on the large outstanding debt with the State
Development Bank (Ft 4.5 billion as of end of December 1984), which was
contracted to finance the VCM plant and associated chlorine and PVC plants,
all of which were commissioned in 1978. In December 1984, the Government
resolved to reschedule repayments of the outst:anJing debt. Payments of
maturities due in the years 1985 through 1987 have been spread over the
period 1985 through 1990 and associated incremental interest payments
incurred as a result of this rescheduling will be paid to SDB out of
Government funds.   The company is now in a financial condition sound
enough to implement the MDI investment. Diversification into the produc-
tion of MDI-based polyurethanes is considered by the Government and the
Company as a means of decreasing the company's dependence on fertilizer and
plastics world market fluctuations and help restore the company's profita-
bility.
3.        BVK is organized functionally into five divisions (technical,
financial, commercial, personnel and legal, and planning and investments),
headed by deputy managers. Because of the critical need for continuous
feedback between marketing operations and product development, flexibility
in management is essential, which the integration of MDI operations in
BVK's functional lines may not allow to the extent required. Consequently,
while the investment department would be in charge of implementing the MDI
project, the MDI activity would be subsequently organized into a business
area or a subsidiary, with its own management gathering all the production,



- 66 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 7
R&D and marketing and market follow-up functions for the company's
polyurethane operations.  Assurances were obtained that, by December 1985,
BVK would present a proposal, acceptable to the Bank, to that effect (para
4.07).
(b) The Pharmaceutical Companies
4.        The essential features of the five pharmaceutical companies are
summarized below:
Key Features of the Pharmaceutical Companies
(1983)
Gedeon
Richter   Chinoin    Egyt   Biogal   Reanal
Date of Creation                1901       1910       1912    1951     1930
Staffing
Total                          5,700      4,890      3,800   2,100      520
R and D Department               820        497       340      182       25
of which - graduate
scientists                      320        224       152       64       17
Total Sales (US$ million)        184        158       102       69       21
Total R and D spending:
US$ Million a/                  11          7          6       2     n.a.
Z of Turnover a/               6.1        5.2       5.5      3.2     n.a.
Breakdown of Sales (Z)
Pharmaceuticals:
Active ingredients            16         17        25      17        -
Formulations                  74         44        59       45        1
Other activities                10         39        16       38       99 b/
Total                    100         100       100     100       100 c/
Domestic Market                  22         16        33       66       65
CMEA Markets                     53         44        37       17       32
CC Markets                       25         40        30       17        3
Total                    100         100       100     100       MC/
a/ 1982
b/ Laboratory and analytical chemicals
c/ Excluding Reanal's trading activities.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 7
5.        Chemical Works of Gedeon Richter.  Gedeon Richter is the oldest
and the largest of the pharmaceutial companies. It has its headquarters
and main production facilities in Budapest and factories in three other
locations (Dorog, Szazhalombatta and Tiszafured). Total sales in 1983
amounted to US$8.3 billion (US$184 million). Pharmaceuticals represent 90%
of total sales. Other products, including herbicides, cosmetics and animal
feed additives, account for the balance. The company accounts for 392 of
total Hungarian production of pharmaceuticals, but less than 3% of
Hungarian production of herbicides and cosmetics. The company produces a
large variety of active substances (300) and formulated products (250) in
153 different therapeutic groups. It is a pioneer and a world leading pro-
ducer of steroids (hormones), which account for about 30Z of total produc-
tion value. Other strong areas include drugs in the cerebrovascular,
cardiovascular and chemotherapeutic groups. Original products account for
17Z of the company's total sales, specialties produced under license for
22% and imitative drugs and generics for the balance (612). Under the Pro-
ject, the company will modernize and expand its manufacturing facilities
for steroids and revamp and expand its injection making facilities to bring
them up to GMP standards. It will also be responsible for carrying out the
proposed waste incinerator subproject (para 5.04).
6.        Chemical and Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. Chinoin.  Chinoin is today
the second largest pharmaceutical company in Hungary. Its head offices and
main production facilities are in Budapest (Ujpest). It also has plants
located in three other sites (Vac, Nagyteteny and Diosgyor). In 1983,
total revenues amounted to Ft 7.1 billion (US$158 million). Pharmaceuti-
cals accounted for 60% of the total, plant protection chemicals for 342 and
intermediates for 6%. Diversification into plant protection chemicals is
relatively recent, since these accounted for only 2.5Z of total revenues in
1970 and 15% in 1975; in this area, Chinoin has specialized in the produc-
tion of fungicides and insecticides (pyrethroids). Chinoin is today among
the 3 largest producers of plant protection chemicals in Hungary. Like
Gedeon Richter, Chinoin produces a wide variety of pharmaceutical special-
ties and active ingredients in many different therapeutic groups. It is
especially strong in the production of spasmolytics, cytostatics, anti-
infectives and cardiovasculars. Under the Project, Chinoin will expand its
injections making facilities, its fermentation plant (for antibiotics), its
synthesis plants (for active ingredients in various therapeutic groups) and
the production of pyrethroids and their intermediates (paras 5.05 and
5.08).
7.        Egis Pharmaceutical Works.  Egis's headquarters and main
production facilities are located in Budapest. Its other factories are
located at Kormend. Total net sales amounted to Ft 4.6 billion in 1983
(US$102 million). Pharmaceuticals for human use constitute about 852 of
total sales, veterinary drugs about 52, food preparations for infants about
72 and other products about 3%. Egis produces a total of about 140
different preparations. Among drugs for human use, the most important are
spasmolytics, anti-infectives, psychotropics and cardiovasculars. Under
the Project, Egis will expand and bring its liquid formulation facilities
up to GMP standards, and increase its production of cardiovasculars and
veterinary preparations (para 5.06).



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 of 7
8.        Biogal Pharmaceutical Works.  Biogal was founded in 1951.  It is
located at Debrecen, in the North Eastern part of Hungary. Total sales in
1983 amounted to Ft 3.1 billion (US$69 million). Pharmaceuticals represent
about two-thirds of the company's turnover, including veterinary drugs
(about 14%). Other manufacturing activities include animal food supple-
ments (17%), surgical plasters and cosmetics (16%). The company's main
lines are the production of antibiotics, galenicals and enzymes. Under the
Project, Biogal will expand and bring all its formulation plants up to GMP
standards and expand its synthesis plant for antibiotics (para 5.07).
9.        Reanal Factory of Laboratory Chemicals.  Since 1954, Reanal has
specialized in the production of over 1,200 different analytical and
laboratory chemicals and medical diagnostic tests, which together represen-
ted 94% of total manufacturing sales in 1983. The company also manu-
factures limited quantities of high purity intermediates for plant protec-
tion chemicals and pharmaceuticals, and of plant protection chemicals used
for biological control, which all together account for 6% of total sales.
Total revenues in 1983 amounted to Ft 928 million (US$20.6 million). The
company also distributes its own as well as imported laboratory and
diagnosis chemicals in Hungary and this trading activity accounted in 1983
for about half of total revenues. Under the Project, Reanal will expand
its manufacturing capacity of diagnostic tests (para 5.07).
Cc) Other Companies
10.       Nitrokemia Industrial Works.  Nitrokemia was founded in 1921.  It
is located at Fuzfogyartelep, near Lake Balaton. Nitrokeoia has a very
diversified production of a wide range of fine and specialty chemicals and
resins. It employs about 4,800 persons, 500 of which work in its R&D
department. In 1983, total sales of the company amounted to about Ft 6
billion (US$133 million) and total R&D spending to Ft 180 million (3% of
total sales). Nitrokemia's wide range of products may be grouped in the
following major categories: (a) plant protection chemicals, which repre-
sent half of total sales; the company is the largest plant protection
chemical producer in Hungary, accounting for close to 40% of total produc-
tion; (b) resins and plastic manufacturing, which account for about 26% of
total sales, consist for the major part of urea formaldehyde and unsaturat-
ed polyester resins, polystyrene foams (from imported polystyrene), and ion
exchange resins; (c) inorganic chemicals (chlorine) and a number of inter-
mediates partly used in its own production and partly sold (15% of sales)
and specialty products such as oil additives, lubricants, nitrocellulose
for lacquers and hunting cartridges (9% of sales). Exports represent about
20% of total sales: over half of these exports (US$20 million) are to CC
markets and the balance to CMEA countries. Under the Project, Nitrokemia
would replace and expand its ion exchange resins production facilities
(para 5.10) and increase the capacity of monochloroacetic acid, a key



- 69 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5 of 7
intermediate in the manufacturing of the company's plant protection
chemicals (para 5.08).
11.       Factory for Cosmetics and Household Chemicals (CAOLA).  Caola was
established in 1963 and resulted from the merger of six independent
cosmetic enterprises. It is located in Budapest and has 4 factories (3 in
Budapest, one in Zalaegerszeg) which produce over a thousand types of
cosmetics and household chemicals. Total staff was 1,617 in 1983. Total
production value in 1983 amounted to Ft 2.6 billion (US$57 million), about
e       8% of which was exported, about half to CC areas and half to CMEA coun-
tries. Under the Project, Caola would build a sulfonation plant to produce
now imported intermediates for cosmetics and fine detergents (para 5.11).
B.   Research and other Institutes
12. (a) The Institute for Drug Research (GYKI). GYKI was founded in
1950; it has a staff of 850, of which just over 300 are university graduate
research scientists. Virtually all the work of the Institute is controlled
and paid for by the pharmaceutical enterprises through a steering and
coordination committee. The Board of the Institute is made up of the
research directors of the Pharmaceutical Companies. It closely coordinates
its work with that of the individual research groups of the enterprises. A
small amount of fundamental work is supported by finance from the Ministry
of Industry and OMFB.  The Institute's R&D program has shifted increasingly
towards discovering and developing new and original therapeutic compounds.
This program led to the establishment of a department within the institute
for testing and screening of new products. New biological laboratories
have been opened and pharmacological, microbiological, toxicological,
teralogical and pharma-kinetic groups established. The Institute has
entered into a joint venture in animal husbandry to breed the necessary
animals for the tests.
13.       The future program of the Institute is dedicated to R&D in
pharmaceuticals for which the increased average age of developed countries
population should lead to a rising demand. The four main areas of R&D are:
(a) cardiovasculars; (b) chemotherapeutics; (c) drugs for the central
nervous system; and (d) oligopeptides (anticoagulants, etc.). The Insti-
tute has cooperative agreements with organizations outside Hungary, includ-
ing the USSR Antibiotics Research Institute and similar organizations in
Poland and the GDR, with the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, and with the
R&D departments of some TNCs including Hoechst, Montedison and several
other TNCs.
14.       The Institute's facilities now meet international Good Laboratory
Practice (GLP) standards, Some U.S. firms have already commissioned toxi-
cological trials on their own prcducts from the Institute, which will
shortly be capable of carrying out virtually all pharmacological and toxi-
cological tests (Annex 2-2); currently long-term toxicological trials still
have to be carried out by overseas laboratories, but this situation will be
rectified in the next 2-3 years. The Institute must still acquire,
however, very modern analytical equipment, of sufficient accuracy to meet



- 70 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 6 of 7
the demands of western regulatory agency tests. This equipment will be
financed under the Project (para 5.19).
15.       Total resources of the Institute amounted in 1983 to Ft 230
million (US$5.1 million). Half of these resources were derived from
contracts with enterprises, 25% came from the Central R&D Fund (para 2.34)
and the remaining 25% from royalties, license and patent payments, income
from joint ventures and profits. The institute reported a profit of Ft 27
million in 1983.
16.   (b) The Research Institute for Heavy Chemical Industries (NEVIKI).
NEVIKI, which is located in Veszprem, was founded in 1949 to provide R&D in
the area of inorganic chemical industries and coal processing. In the
1960s, as the importance of inorganics and coal tar derivatives decreased,
the Institute's work changed direction and it began to operate in the
following main areas: (a) plant protection chemicals and fertilizers;
(b) corrosion protection in the chemical and power industries; (c) process
control technologies; and (d) air pollution control. Today, more than 60%
of the research capacity is spent on R&D work in plant protectives (herbi-
cides, rodenticides, insecticides and fungicides) and the Institute is the
sole provider of new product screening and testing studies for plant
protection chemicals in Hungary. There is a need to increase this capacity
as Hungarian R&D is producing a number of new possible products which
require toxicological testing. The required investments will be financed
under the Project (para 5.20).
17.       NEVIKI  undertakes all stages of testing of plant protection
chemicals, from the analytical screening stage (to determine if a chemical
compound has any fungicidal, herbicidal or insecticidal properties), to the
biological and toxicological (to determine the toxicological effect of the
chemical in several concentrations) and to the testing of effectiveness,
application technology and environmental impact under laboratory, green-
house, and small- and large-scale field trials. NEVIKI's tests
(particularly toxicological) must give positive results before a Hungarian
license for use can be obtained. The Institute has for many years
cooperated with sister institutes in other socialist countries, and other
research projects in plant protection chemicals have been undertaken with
partners--the USSR, GDR, Czechoslovakia and Cuba. Cooperative research
projects have been and are being undertaken with ICI, Dupont, Chemie Linz,
AG and Montedison.
18.       NEVIKI employs 467 persons, including 190 research scientists.
Total resources of NEVIKI in 1983 amounted to Ft 195 million (US$4.3
million), including Ft 111 million from its R&D activities (funds from
enterprise contracts and allocation of central R&D funds), Ft 41 million
from industrial process control and development and sales of agricultural
ehemicals manufactured on a pilot of semi-commercial scale, and Ft 12
million from royalty and other payments on license and know-how. In 1983,
NEVIKI reported a net profit of Ft 16 million (US$0.36 million).



- 71 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7 of 7
(c) Hungarian Chemical Industries Engineering Center (VEGYTERV)
19.       VEGYTERV was created in 1950 and is today the major (though not
exclusive) design and engineering institute for the chemical industry
(except refineries). VEGYTERV has full scope engineering capabilities,
including preparation of feasibility studies, basic and detailed design,
procurement, organization and supervision of construction and assembly
work. VEGYTERV has a staff of 1,273, including 1,000 engineers and
technicians. Total income amounted to Ft 451 million in 1983 (US$10
million), 822 of which from domestic contracts. VEGYTERV is in need of
modern designing equipment, which will be financed under the Project
(para 5.29).
Industry Department
February 1985



- 72 -
ANNEX 4-3
HUNCAR
FINE ClElICALS PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PROJECT COMPANIIIS - 1981-83
(rmilion Forinta)
Profit    Profit Profit over Sales   Growth                   Long Term      Debt Service
Total        Net        Before    After   Before    After        of        Current    Debt/Equity       Coverage
Assets     Revenues      Tax       Tax     Tax        Tax     Sales (2)     Ratio         Ratio          Ratio
1981        13.158.2       8.885.8     731.8    545.(       8.2      6.1        3.2          2.6        51/49            1.4
1982        13,497.1       9,163.2     286.2    172.9       3.1      1.9        3.1          1.7        48/52            1.2
1983        12.809.8      t0,305.6     419.8    180.1       4.1      1.7       12.5          1.5        46/54            1.1
Cedeon Richter
1981         7.735.9       6,401.1     715.9    334.7      11.?      5.2        6.8          3.4        32/68            1.2
1982         8,772.9       7.429.2   1.033.7    439.7      13.9      5.9       16.1          3.2        31/69            2.0
1983         9,755.3       8,275.5   1,113.7    483.5      13.5      5.8       11.4          2.9        30/70            1.5
Chinoin
1981         5.326.3       5.918.9     462.5    216.2       7.8      3.7       17.6          3.8        11/89            3.e
1982         6,214.3       6,251.9     537.9    228.8       8.6      3.7        5.6          2.6         7/93            2.6
1983         6,772.0       7,120.3     722.8    300.0      10.2      4.2       13.9          3.1         5/95            3.1
EgIS
1981         4,261.2       3,818.5     229.0     94.0       6.0      2.5        5.0/        2.6        27/73            1.0
1982         5,025.7       4,177.6     337.9    106.9       8.1      2.6        9.4          2.1        23/77
1983         5,708.7       4,635.3     537.4    240.1      11.6      5.2       11.0         2.1         18/82            1.4
Biogal
1981         1.683.9       2,000.2     182.4     70.9       9.1      3.5       30.6          2.1        19/81            0.7
1982         2.142.2       2,559.5     295.1    115.1      11.5      4.5       28.0          2.5        20/80            1.1
1983         2.792.6       3.098.1     404.1    188.4      13.0      6.1       21.0         2.9         25/75            1.7
Reanal
1981           560.7         821.3      82.3     38.5      10        4.7       27.0-/       8.0         0/100            1.8
1982           676.8         859.1     120.5     55.6      14        6.5        4.6        18.5         0/10n       above 10
1983  .        792.1         928.2      87.1     40.5       9.4      4.4        8.n        11.6         0/100            6.0
Nitrokeaia
1981         4.933.5       5,630.0    827.4    431.7       14.7      7.7       12.2a/        3.4        12/88            2.3
1982         5,357.9       5.997.0     777.0    375.5      13.0      6.2        6.5         3.1         12/8A            2.9
1983         5,481.6       6,610.7     969.'   439.0       14.7      6.6       10.2         3.0         13/87            3.0
Caola
1981         1,539.9       2.603.0     456.3    189.1      17.5      7.3       13.1a/       5.2         11/89            3.6
1982         1,564.9       2,420.5     359.3    137.7      14.8      5.7       -7.0         5.7          7/93            1.5
1983         1.599.0       2,558.4     416.4    192.9      16.3      7.5        5.7         4.9          8/92            3.3
a/ Average annual sales growth - 1978-1981.
Industry Department
February 1985



- 73 -
H                                                                         Ann 5-1
rngX amcas PrSCT
FINK! 0  IZLWITA  flOM  UUEIUU
s wq oir rsnez _LO
CD_V          Suboroiect               TechnologY                       Esinerins                     Project tuasesn_t            Coe-tructieo
3IOCGL       Synthsi-s             *iogl 'in  o4ue'             Vigyterv  (1,300 Stagf)                bDioIl Iavestment        General contractor
Dept. (26 staff)
Surgical Plasters    Eeiersdorf (W. Garrny)       Vagyterv (with Ipsrturv as sub-         Biogal nd Veyter.    Gsneral contractor.
contractor
Foralations          Not applicable               Vegyterv                                Blogml and Vsgyterv     Gsneral contractor
with supply sod erect
contracts for ueh
of the equip_mt
Dm           "Dl                   *oreign Suppiter             F torsig  Consultants and Vsgyterv     Foreign Cooaultaetsa    Approximately It sub-
Sr,  Inventant Dept.   contractors will be
(60 istaff) and         used. ssnfed and
Vegytarv                 coordina ted by BVK's
lnvest_at Depsrtent
CAeLA        Sulfonttlon           Foreign Supplier             Yorsiga Consultants and Vsgyterv       Vegyterv with            General contractor
assistance froe
forsigs consultants
CaDUN         Pyrsthroids          Vegyterv                     Vegyterv snd lpsrterv                  Chwisls and Velyterv    General coatrector
Insatasr_t Dept.
(32 staff)
Injections           Not Applicable               Vegyterv and lparterv */                Chinoin and Vegyterv    General contractor
supply and erect
contrast: !or etch
of the equlp_nt
Active Substnces    Chinoin 'in house             Chinoin Technical Depsrt_nt            Chinoin                   Csral contractor
54 Staff
nerewntacion         Chinoin 'in house'           Vagter'v snd ipecterv                   Cbinoln and Vegyterv    General contractor
ECIS         Liquid Forsulations  Not Applicable                Egis Dsvelopent Departmsnt (40         Egis lnvestsnt           General contractor with
staff) with assistance fros local      Departsnt (55 staff)   supply and erect
consultants 9/                                                  contracte for euch
of the equipsat
Cardiovaeculsr        4im 'in hoa"'               Egi (about 702) and Vegyterv (30I)   Egis and Vegyterv          General Contractor
Veterinary Products  Egis 'in house               E4li                                    Egls                    Approximately 5 sub-
contractore "aaged
4gi.
SEVlt!       Taxicological         Not Applieble               Vegyterv !l                            Vagytarv and NEVICI    CGnral ceetrector with
Testing Facilities                                                                        (10 staff)                om  equipent supply
and erect contracts
NITROMIA  Ion Exchange BAsins  Nitrokeia                        Vergyterv                              NltroNeis Investment   Approiately S sub-
Deprttsnt CR0 stsff)   contractors managed
snd Vegyters             by litrokheis Dept.
whicb speciliava in
coestruction aork.
4onochioroaCetic     Dc-lel/Susitoeo               Dsciel/Suaitoso with                  Nitrokesia with assist- Nitrobki- Mechanical
acid                 (Japan)                       Vegyterv for offsicsa                 snce fron Deciell        Dept. whicb  specializes
Susitoso                in construction work
31A1A.       Diagnostic Tests      Reanal/CGlenophara           Veayterv                               Reanal Inveat_nt        CGneral Contractor
(Switzerland)                                                       Dept. (11 staff) and
Vegytera
RiCiTaR     Fer ntation/          Cedeon Richter               Gedeon Rlchter Technical               Gedeo  Richter loest-  Csneral Contrector
Steroids             'in house'                   Dspart_nt (20 staff) with              set Dept. (Z4 staff)
civil works by Iparterv                and lpartil
Injections           Not Applicable               Vegyterv */                            Vegyterv and Gedeos      2 min contrectors for
Ricbter                  civil aed erectiou with
supply and erection
co-tracts for bch
of the equip_et
Incinerator          Foreign Supplier as          Vsgterv. Iparterv and                  Foreign equipment        General contractor
pert of equIp_snt            Uvarterv sl supplier l and                                      witb sm*    quipest
contracts                                                           Vegyters                 on supply ad erect
contracts
A sJDr part of the enioseriog is intrinsic to equipent
supply contracts.
Industry Dspartsent
February 18N5



7-            -    -
RNECHOIASRIOJCI
pcidSdwdd
1  s 8 J~  3    4    4    2    2  1    a 2                 
0-   _-__---=_ _  
_>WC - p1     1 1 1
D -iv--I                        I III_7
S-
- L 
-I--                                    II
lm - aowX   I
n a--a"o
SwinpU.WIW Op-aw..64



- 75 -
ANNEX 5-3
HUNGAR
FINE CHEUICALS PROJECT
PLANT DESIGN REQUIREMENTS TO MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEHS
In the desiga of the subprojects plants, particular attention
will be paid to incorporating the folo-ing, so that project facilities can
conform with acceptable environmental standards:
1.  Feeding of solids into batch reactors, above 50 kg per
batch, should be through a closed system. Dust
elimination should be incorporated for unloading of
dusty and/or hazardous solids.
Feeding of smaller quantities of solids into reactors
containing toxic materials during a lengthy period
(above 5 minutes), should also be done through a closed
system.
.  Feeding of liquids into batch reactors should always be
through a clo&ed system.
3.  Venting of equipment to atmosphere should always be
through a recovery or removal system.
4.  Closed process buildings should be ventilated.  Ten to
fifteen volume changes per hour should be applied. To
save energy, used for air heating during cold seasons,
air heat recuperators should be used.
5.   Safety relief devices for process systems should be
vented to atmosphere through a proper blow down
system. Lethal emissions to atmosphere should be
avoided by using scrubber system or other suitable
means.
6.   Glass walled closed process building should include
relief panels to avoid shattering of glass in the event
of an explosion.
7.   Offices and amenity facilities should not be located
above process areas.
Industry Department
January 1985



- 6 -
Mills   e _riam                  099 fIlls..
hr.
9.A      Fmg         Total          locl     seti        mrsg           rots
A. tro&tctls      .uf
-. m
tuu.atlosmlteud.                 4ft.70   103.o       590_3            1.13      347      11z.1           31t
rEuation lnt                      709.60    3n9.    1.09.90           14.2       7.80    21.9            35Z
-admragr                         715.50   434.10   1 349.60           14.31      8." 6     2.9            =
9eb-ttal                    Turn    flR              i319                     f        3fl             Uk
uj_ue  Ptant                     225.00   270.90    495.0             4.50       5.42      9.92          Sut
tmumututlo tvie                   19.20     72.90    271.10            3.96      1.4      5342           27X
hen.. lagruoilst                  170.20   110.20    230.40            3.A0      2.20      5.61           397
tsb-tota                                              nw                      rw   rw 2.
C     _rdio,auc.laru             t53.90    174.90     330ao            3.12      3.50      6.62           532
Formultion t1ut                   00.10    15'.ZG    287.10            240       3.14      5.74           55X
Vat. ftruwuanlms                  97.50    90.30    137.40             1.93      1.31      3.76           462
sub-total                       ur       mw    -urn                 -or        S."      36. 11          522
3yur0.1. rlit                     216.40    119.40    335ao            4.33      2.39      6.72           361
omaflatio. flat                   537.10   353.60    90B.70           11.14      7.03     18.17          392
SurgImi ti_ter.                   105.30    77.0      12.30            2.31      3.54      3.65          42=
Sub-total                                                                     To-. 5   T3 ii r" 2o.  W 
_S
Dviawelc Trst.                     43.30    35.30      80.60           0.91      0.71      1.61           Z1
rural thorms. Iu-ufuts          3.732.ao  244.90   6.199.70           74.6      49.34    124.00     A      0Z
2. tnm_  Prrtselo  C      zculs
cairn
etyntuSas                         19.90    86.50   2Z6.40              4.a       1.73      5.73          3DS
tmeblrusecttc Acld                 12.80    49.20      82.W            0."       0.98      1.66          GOT
Total tInt crotcunts              232.70    135.70    368.40           4.65      2.71      7.37           37-
3. 3D: _ Palm. S            (am        1.09.20  1.3564A   2.765.60          28.16      27.13    55.31           492
_I  r.en. Dust CXrMUIDaa)               692.30    237.00    929.50           13.35      4.74    1S.             25X
5. Oienturnt lunterdiat, (CALA)          47.10    56.60      103.70          0.9        1.13      2.07          55
rural nhud  ustso               6.116.30  4.252.60  10.366.90        122.29     85.06   207.3n           4I1
ncremental tbitug Caplt              715.60    1D.50    696.10           14.31      3.61    17.92           20X
Trtul tProduet.in Pattllt       6.329.90  4.433.10  11.263.00        136.60     36.67   225.27           402
3. Ros_reh a   avllo_ t
Cadmus Uebtat                          0.00    41.50      41.90           0.00      0.84      0.84         IO1S
CtoAt.                                0.30    43.40       43.40          0.00       0.87      0.47         1002
c7t                                   0.00    41.60       41.0 .          0.00      0.34      0.84          1002
cM                                    0.00    41.0       43.60           0.00      0.64      0.64         IOD1
=Wm                                  149.50    70.60    220.70            3.00      1.42      4.41           mZ
Sub-total                         149.50   239.70    369.60            3.0D      4.79      7.79         622
C. tbarseuuttcu  tru-Ilthuls              5.00   415.30    420.30            0.10       3.31      3.43          992
D. Studlou.  7rulsE  a  odals
Ibnftaur study                        3.90      2."        6.70          0.0        0.06      0.13          432
Plan  Caltalm Study                   12.50     9.60      22.10          0.25       0.19      G."           432
tratugie timing TraIning              6.00      6.00      12.00          0.12       0.12      0.24          302
ncr? hIul  Eqpmt                      6.30     20.90      29.10           0.17      0.42      0.56          712
tb-roaa                           30.60    39.30       69.50          VW           w        . W
TOTAL BA.IS CWT                    7.015.40  S.L27.40  12.142.10        340.31    102.54   242.47            422
thyalc-l Cbti_PusE1_a                627.00   454.00   1.061.00          12.54      9.06     21.62          "22
ti. Cuc_inguda                     1.315A0  1.033.0   2.349.30          26.32      20.67    46.99           44
M50  P tiC COS                     3,959.20  3.614.0  135.D73.10        179.16    132.32   311.48           432
tbuary 1965



DATAILED FINANCINO PLAN
-------- - .........illon  Porints .................                                      ..................  illion 's 60----- .---    ----
lib-Leain                  Sob-l4ons                                                               Sub-Loans                  Sub-LAOng
for Direct                 for Other         Pinioct                                               lot Direct                 for Dthar        Project
-....f wh.ich ----o..  f n9.lch-.-
Total      1330    1111         5DB       Lim       Sol   bolits         Couarnmant       Total          Iai.Oj.   iitk-    flj    LO&     LB32_     M0      BooSts        flvoyajj         1*
UIQAII  AND IPISPJBCT
Prinastatloo/Itaraidu       214.1                                    02.          *       111.0            -           104.1         2102                                         -21-2.
Pormclotion Flint  1l0.0                       919.0       -      ~~~~~~            ~    ~ ~~~~~~249.0  -  ,04.  .1                              19.4                  50,0-1.
Inturoor0062                                                             -     1500,0    041.0          420.0       I.019.7          3,2                       3.0        -      10         113             .4            10,9
a andD0                       021                                        -                                             il. s
subtotot                        gur    Tn 11Tr"                 r1 T1T 11    u171                 ii:3    1;9T"                         TM TI7r  ti                        tn         1R7
CHINOIN
injection plant              06                                       1111.9             1 40.0            -            4.             .2                                1,6                  1 .4          -1.
Fermntatoro n Plant          44.S                                     212.9       -       92.9             -           121           0.9                                 0.1      -           1.9-1.
Agtiva  logre4ilinto        100.1                                     191.0      -       10M.                          194.4         2.0                                 1.9                  2.1                          1.
pyr.throIdo                  41.2                                     101,1              128.9            -            01.0           2.2                                0.0    -2,4                       -9.4
010.  R3    111                                             OTT                         &:4          -r4   nv  T.T                        *R7Y  -                            -              1
Cordlonoocolors              18.1                                     100,4              210.0                         001.9          1.9                                1.1    -             1,0          -10.1
Ltquid Foritjiottns         III.1                                      91.1      -       11.0             -             94.0          1.4                                1,9    -             2.4          -                .9
Vat.  arprii                  91.0                                     00.0      -         0.0                          MA21.         1.9                                2,0                  1.6                           .
tondO       02.4                                       -~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~                                ~ ~~~~~~~ -    0.  1.o2                 -      -- 
subtatal                                                                           Tin. IU  WT-                t,21.7          10.2      El7     T.'  -
IIIOGAL
synthesiso Plant            112.0                                     251.2      -         0.0                          7.            2.2                      -          .1                  1.0                          9,0
porvuclattn plant           141.n                                     160.0              211.1            -         2,19.1           6.9                                21.1    -4.4                       -2,
lorirat    PI 'store         39.1                                      48i  I    -         2.6            -              110.         1.8                                I 13    -             .1     
subtotal              TTrT  17E   76T7                        T71TfT    -            IE                        irn43.          TE    T.-  TrT ~-    IPT                          -  -.
Diagnostic Toot               14.4     21.0      11.4       -          41.4      -        21.1                         101.1         01.1      0.      0.2    -          0.9    -0.0                       -                 .1
NITROIIIA
Isonoclorooalic Arid          00.4                                     291       -        28.0            -111.9                      1.1                                0.0                  0.4                          2.2
Ionlokingo . teet         100.i   ____02 1                                     -       10. (I                     1,194.4          1.2      __       _                 10 .:.L                           -              21 9
Subtotal               22.       1,         I. TR4202108.1                                                                      M.      1T1      0.%    -         01,4     -             .            -1T
Iultonation Plant            09.9    40.0        19.9       -         0.1        -        11,0            -104.2                      1.2      0,8     0.4     -         1.?                  0,1.                          ,
M Il!                        I,02.1  1,110.0    418.1                 2,04,42      -       80.0              -          ,2.             0.6    22,?      6.4     -        29.9    -            1.2                           74.4
Iod0                      12.0     11.0       11.4       -                                                            2.4         1.0      0,1    0,1      -           -                                -i0
I  nan  D                    88.0    00,0         6.0       -         121.0                2.                          212.1          1.0      1,4    0.2      -         2.                    .0          -               0.
DesTle Equipment             3S.1    20.0         1,1       -                    -        i.2             -             2.1          0,0       0.4     0.1     -          -                   0.2          -0.1
Pbir.i,outicalo
PrO-lirksting !I               020.0   110.0    140.0                      -                  .                           20,0         10,4      1.4     2.6              -                     0.2                          10.0
studies and Training              21.0    21.0      -            -           -                   -          2.                10          0.4      0.4     -       -           -                                               At -
Total Plnanclna Asqaslrd    0,079,2 1,449.0  1,30i,2           120.0   4,192.4       i 11 ,01,10,4          410.4       10,111,1        101,1     11.0   24.1    2,0        220,0    1,0         70.1           61.01         li.0
j Inclu"Ing aenhe.  etodp (1560.1 otllion)
Including cooeoltanto (10*0.4 olIlleal)
Indusitry Dopirtucot
Jimoor, 1980



- 78 -
ANNEX 6-3
FlNE CHEMICALS PROJECr
NATUTImS AND GRACE PERIODS
Including
Ttbal              Grace
MaturityA/         Perioda/
(Years)
Cedeon Richter
Incinerator                             13                 3                                 -
Fermentation/Steriods                   12                  3
Injections                              12                 3
R and D                                 10                 2
Chinoin
Pyrethroids                             10                 3
Active Ingredients                      12                  3
Fermentation                            12                  3
Injections                              12                 3
R and D                                 10                 2
Cardiovasculars                         10                 3
Liquid Preparations                     12                 3
Vet. Preparations                       12                 3
R and D                                 10                 2
Biogal
Formulation Plant                       12                 3
Surgical Plasters                       12                 3
Synthesis Plant                         12                 3
Reanal
Diagnostic Tests                        12                 2
Caola
Sulfonation Plant                       12                 2
Mitrokemia
Ion Exchange Resins                     12                 3
Monocbloroacetic acid                    8                 2
BVK
MDI                                     12                 3
Vegyterv
Design Equipment                         9                 2
Neviki
R and D                                 12                 3
CYKI
R and D                                 10                  2
a/  From date of first distribution to the companies.
Industry Department
December 1984



- 79 -
ANNEX 6-4
HUNGARY
FINE CHFMICALS PROJECT
ESTIED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year
and Semester             Disbursements     Cumulative      Ulndisbursed
1986     I                    2.0              2.0            71.0
II                   4.6              6.6            66.4
1987     I                    7.0             13.6            59.4
II                  9.8              23.4            49.6
1988     I                   12.0             35.4            37.6
II                  14.2             49.6            23.4
1989     I                    9.4             59.0            14.0
II                  6.0              65.0             8.0
1990     I                    5.0             70.0             3.0
II                   3.0             73.0             0.0
Industry Department
December 1984



SuonART
FInE CHDIICALS PIOJECT
SumW T O  StUIPROJECTS  INAMCIAL RESULTS - 1990
Incrassntal        Ineresentat                                          Profit         'tt Profit      Internal Cash         Principal    Total Debt          Debt Service
Codeon Richter                         lwRanus          Cash Costa  /    Dpracltion           Interest    Relare Tan        Altar Tae         Goneretjg3l          Vayrmnt          Seoieo         Caysrase Raiol
Ferinntation/lteroida                   459               -111                68               9*             416             264                3219               4t               13                      2.S
injctions Plan:                          M1                474                141              IlA            -$9             -69                 76                 8I              262                     I0
Incinerator                             210                 10                 92               SS             19              is                110                 S2              107
lob-total                       l.T nr                                                   1 m           m7               m                   m1I               m                 m                      ;
Chinoin
Injoetions Plant                        29S                521                  59              54            109             194                2S1                 4*              lOn                     1.1
Fers ntition Plant                      411                255                  29               11           14A              92                III                  2U              81                     2.7
Actiwa Ingredienti                    1,251                905                  17              27            441             282                119                  13              60                     1.8
Pyrathrolds                           I ISO                 59                   0              40            411             312                 342                 S2              92                     4.1
Sub-total                       tW T3I                                                   1w                             DI                                    TR!              VTI                     J,
CardIovaesulara                         I10                 314                 46               11           119             214                Z60                  S0              ol                     3.6
Liquid Pormultlons                      472                249                  27               17           160              98                 125                 18              S1                     2.0
Vat. Prsperetlonn                       291                1I2                  24               22            AS               Sl                 7S                 IS               17                    2.6
Sub-total                        1,IT                                                                                   UT TI! Ti  m                                           i                       3.2
Synthesis Plant                         319                2715                 41              52             II                I                 42                 24              79                     1.2
Porlmatlon Plant                        90                 S00                 119             144            21              124               242                  72             228                     1.8
Surgical Plasters (1991)                3I                 21                 26              22             S6               Ii                 Si                 lo               52                    1,1
Suob-total                      1Ti!                                                     111            I              17                 __                   212            -'                       T
easnat
Diagnostic Tlsts                        102                  94                 10                9            l0              1i                  iS                  8               17                    2.2
Rail
Cardlovasculara                         730                 114                4I                11           119              214                2hO                 S0               Al                   31 *  
Liquid Formulationa                     472                249                  27               17           150              9t                 125                 li               13                    1.0
Vet. PreparatIons                       291                 162                 24               22            83               51                 7S                 IS               17                    2.6
Sub-total                       1.494                TI                                   1W            TT II!                             III-1 iiT                                                   3.2
liosal
Synthasie Plant                         179                27S                  41              51             II                I                 A7                 24               79                    1.2
Formlation Plant                        908                100                1I9               144           217              124               241                  72             228                     2.8
Surgical Plasters (1991)               3II                 227                  26               32            56               31                 S7                 16               92                    I
sub-total                       riii                 8                                                  m              79  ITT  i
lEssnal
Diognoatte Tests                        101                  94                 10                9            10               18                 28                  a               17                    2.2
Casts
Sullonation Plant                       289                 297                 I6               I6            70              49                 62                  14               10                    2.1
IVK
IIDI                                  22660              21000                 112             606            872             479                Ahl                 154             6no                     2.0
SitrsbeLia
Ionochloraeetie Acid                    224                IS1                   7               12            92               12                 11                 24               26                    2.0
Ion Inxchans Resina                   2 038              1 041                101              131           765              491                596                 94              164                     4.3
L                  tflTR                                 TU            T17              T"                  m-0                                Tn m                    r.
*/  Including standard allocation of R and 0 costs.
kb Aususing equal Inettalltnts.
Industry Departsnt
February 196 
.4



- 81 -
NM 7-2
FDE CHEMMILS ECr
tWE FDWCL - ENOEMC
ROE5 OF E
Fli a                          nomic Aim i        s-
ctopmuius and                             Atu m Okt. of                            N11 Pet
SdbprojUts                Prntawn                                                    Uial
Injetious                              37                       39             24.0
Fei entatimlSuradds                    40                       4              17.4
loiotinm                               37                       41             13.9
Active lugrtedes                       78                       BB             25.3
Fermntatian                            A2                       34              4.9
P,rehroids                             69                       71             16.5
Egi
Liqoid Formulationh                    41                       44              9.0
Cardiovasculars                        56                       60             15.3
get. Prertions                         21                       24              1.4
liopi
Fmlatim                                21                       24             13.4
Sgm*.sis                               18                       20              2.1
%ugLcod Paters                         2                        25              1.5
bana
Dagustic Tets                          43                       52              2.0
litrumia
INmmdxloro. Acid                       43                       46              3.1
Ion Exduup buins                       4                        43             26.1
Sulfoution Plant                       52                       57              4.1
OK
IDI                                   s1                        19             20.2
TOTaL P 0O&ET                                                           36            201.6
uduut O  rWth t
.huumrg 1995



- 82 -
AEM= 7-3
HUNGARY
FINE C9EMICALS PROJECT
PROJECTED PRICES OF MDI (BULK MATERIAL)
(Free Hungarian Border)
in constant 1984 terms
US$ per ton
Polymeric        Pure
MDI          MDI        Average
1984 (Actual)            1,215         1,615         1,295
1987                     1,424         1,880         1,515
1988                     1,410         1,863         1,501
1989                     1,393         1,839         1,482
1990                     1,378         1,819         1,466
1991                     1,406         1,857         1,496
1992                     1,428         1,885         1,519
1993                     1,446         1,909         1,538
1994                     1,458         1,925         1,551
1995                     1,465         1,933         1,558
1996                     1,502         1,983         1,598
1997                     1,532         2,023         1,630
1998                     1,557         2,055         1,656
1999                     1,575         2,080         1,676
Source: Arthur D. Little
Tndustry Department
December 1984



- 83 -
ANNEX 7-4
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF MDI PRODUCTION COSTS
(US$ million)      Z
Raw materials                                       12.1           58
of which:   Aniline                              11.0           52
Chlorine                             1.3            6
Carbon Monoxide                     0.2             1
Formaldehyde                         1.5            7
Hydrochloric acid (Credit)        (-1.9)          (-9)
Catalysts and Chemicals                              3.5           ''
Utilities                                            2.7           13
Total Variable Costs                18.3           88
Labor                                                0.2            1
Maintenance                                          1_4            7
Domestic Transportation                              0.3            1
Development Costs                                    0.3            1
Overhead                                             0.5            2
Total Fixed Costs                    2.7           12
Total Costs                                         21.0          100
Industry Department
January 1985



ANNM 7-5
HUNGART
PFIE CdHMICALS PROJgCT
MH3 - SUBPROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALTSI1 - SUHHAIAT oF MAJOR OPERATING COST ASSUMPTIONS
ASE CASE ASSUMPTIONS
(in constant 1984 teru)
CulSS)
It.e                              Units         1985      1986        1987       1988      1989      1990        1991       1992        1993        1994       1995      1996       1997       1998        1999
Wood   ote8-roduct Va!uos
AnilLne                           $/T          600.00    592.89    587.60    581.,2   575.47    574.n0          589.16    604.24       619.32      634.40    649.48    664.39    679.30    694.22        709.13
Chlorine                          S/T           92.00      91.30      90.60      89.90    89.21       18.51      91.n7      93.63       96.19       98.75    101.32    104.81    108.30    111.80         115.29
Carbon Monoxide                   S/T           50.00      49.62      49.24      48.86    48.48      48.1n       49.49      50.89       52.28       53.67      55.06     56.96      58.86      60.76      62.66
Forueldehyde (1O00)               S/T          409.00    405.89    402.79    399.68   396.S7    393.47          404.86    416.25       427.64     439.03    450.42    465.95    481.48    497.01         512.54
HCL (IOO)                        S/T          213.00    211.38    209.76    206.15   206.53    204.91          210.84    216.77       222.71      228.64    234.57    242.66    250.75    258.84         266.92
Catalysts A Chemicals Costs
OUCB                              $/Kg             .91       .90        .89        .88      .87        .87         .89        .91         .94         .96       .98        1.01      1.03       1.05        1.07
Caustle (1002)                    S/T          243.00    241.15    239.31    237.46   235.62    233.77          240.54    247.31       254.07      260.84    267.61    276.84    286.06    295.29         304.52
MIsc. Chain. A Materials          VIT         $ 43.57      43.24      42.91      42.s8    42.25      41.92       43.13      44.34       45.56       46.77      47.98     49.64      51.29      52.9S       54.60
Utilities Costs
Fuel                            S/T              .00       .00        .00         .00       ,00       .00        .00        .W0         .00         .00        .00       .00        .00        .00         .00       '
Eteas HP                        S/T            8.63       8.56       8.50        8.43     8.37      8.30        8.54       8.78        9.02        9.26      9.50       9.83      10.16      10.49       10.81      I
Steam LP                        $/T            8.63       8.56       8.50        8.43     8.37      8.30        8.54       8.78        9.02        9.26      9.50       9.83      10.16      10.49       10.51
Power                           $/Kwh           .03        .03        .03         .03       .03      .03         .03        .03         .03         .03        .03       .03        .03        .03         .03
Water (cooling)                 $/Kn3         34.59      34.33      34.06       33.80    33,54    33.28        34.24      35.20       36.17       37.13      38.09     39.41      40.72      42.03       43.35
Water C/ 0ess)                  5/a3             .47       .47        .46         .46       .46       .45        .47        .48         .49         .50        .52       .54        .55        .57         .59
Other .       ent air)          S/Mn3          9.24       9.17       9.10        9.03      8.96     8.89        9.15       9.40        9.66        9.5"2     10.18     10.53      10.88      11.23       11.58
Total fixe. .oat
Labor (inel. tax)               000         223.00    223.00    223.00        223.00   223.00   223.000    223.00    223.00         223.00      223.00    223.00    223.00    22m.00    223.00        223.00
KaIntenance                     O00S       1,409.00  1,409.00  1,409.00   1,409.00 1,409.00 1,409.000  1,409.00  1,409.00   1,409.0tl   1,409,00  1,409.00  1,409.00  1,409.00  1,409.00   1,409.00
Dometic Trcnsp.                000          320.00    320.00    320.00        320.00   320.00   320.000    320.00    320.O0         320.00      320.00    320.00    320.00    32(0.00    320.00        320.00
Develop. 6 Misc. Coats          OOOS         350.00    350.00    350.00        350.00   350.00   350.000    350.00    350.00         350.00      350.00    350.00    350.00    350.00    350.00        350.00
Overheads (ind. costs)          000$         446.00    446.00    446.00        446.00   446.00   446.00       446.0n    446.00       446.00     446.00    446.00    446.00    446.00    446.00         446.00
Sourcei Arthur D. Llttle
Industry Department
December 1984
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,



-85 -                        ANNEX 7-6
Page 1 of 2
HUiCARI
FINE CIIENICAIS PASJECT
SICXY OF COMPANIES PROJECrED FINANCIAL STATEMEITS a/
(Actual)    - Projected- -
1983         1985      1988        1990
-   (million Forl       nca)-
Revenues                            10,305.6   12,565.8  18,943.1  22,435.0
Net Profit before tax                  419.8    2,820.0   4,429.8    5,396.8
Net Profit after tax                  180.1        978.6   1,627.4    Z,194.4
Internal Cash Generation b/           951.1      1,451.6   2,2b666    2872,7
Debt Service:
Principal                            758.6       952.7   1,293.9    1,056.0
Interest                             847.8       311.5      399.5       348.9
Current assets                       4,173.9    4,419.2   6,523.7    7,674.1
Current Liabilities                  2,301.6    2,746.7   4,227.2    4,031.6
Outstanding long term debt           4,694.1    3,446.2   2,908.1    1,523.7
Equity                               5.815.6    6,953.0   1,003.6   13,054.6
Current ratio                             1.8         1.6       1.5         1.9
Long-term Debt/Equity ratio             44/55       33/67      23/77       11/89
Debt service coverage ratio               1.2        1.4       Ib          2.3
Gedeon Richter
Revenues                             8,275.5    9,251.0  12,701.0   14.485.0
Net Profit before tax                1.113.7    1,433.2   2.100,0    2.508,4
Net Profit after tax                   483.5       668.6      977.7    1,168.6
Internal Cash Generation b(            b25.8       833.8   1.279.8    1,501.3
Debt Service:
Principal                            343.3       402.4      308.1      487.0
Interest                             287.3       387.4      567.5       520.3
Current assets                       5,481.7    5,985.4   8,217.5    9.371,8
Current liabilities                  2,038.7    2,0b7.3   2,417.9    2,649.6
Outstanding long term debt           2,378.4    2,287.5   3,624.8    2.985.0
Equity                               5,442.2    7,259.8  10,508.6    '.090.7
Current ratio                             2.7        2.9        3.4         :.5
Long-term Debt/Equity ratio             31/69       24/7b      27/73       19/81
Debt service coverag: ratio               1.5        1.6        2.2         2.0
Chinoin
Revenues                             7,120.3   7,701.0    10,963.0  13,311.0
Net Profit before tax                  722.8      895.7      1,135.7   1,429.1
Net Profit after tax                   296.6      418.7        530.9      668.1
Internal Cash Generation b/            383.1      524.2        656.1      864.9
Debt Service:
Principal                            268.3  -  141.5          55.6      201
Interest                              72.6       54.3        216.7      212.9
Current assets                       4,276,7   4.466.6       6,358.5   7,720.4
Current liabilities                  1,611.9   1,644.0       2.438.3   3,105.0
Outstanding long ter's debt            242.6      435.6      1,581.2   1,217.5
Equity                               4,764.1   5,337.0       6,242.6   7,060.9
Current ratio                             2.6       2.7          2.6        2.5
Long-term Deht/Equity ratio              5/95       8/92        20)80       5/85
Debt service c.wverage ratio              1.3       3.1          3.4        2.8
*/   In early 1915. the Covernment changed the taxation system for the
enterprises.  Depreciation allowances are now fully retained by the
copanies. On the other hand, the companies are now subject to a
property tax and an investment tax. We have reviewed the impact of
the changes in the projected financial statements and concluded that
they vill not materially affect the results of the projections
sumarized in this report.
ki Profit after tax (net of distributed shartng fund), plus retained
depreciation allowances (402 of depreciation allowances are returned
to the Government).



- 86 -
ANNEX 7-6
Page 2 of 2
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECr
SUKIARY OF COMPANIES PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a/
(Actual)      ----Projected------
1983        1985      1988       1990
----   ---(aillion forints)-----
Nitrokeia
Revenues                           6,611.0    7,22b.0   8,488.0      9,635.0
Net profit before tax                 969.0    1,194.0   1,333.U     1,544.0
Net profit after tax                 439.0       558.0    b23.0        722.0
Internal cash generation b/          536.4       702.0     806.0       910.0
Debt Service:
Principal                          113.9      196.0     137.0       199.0
Interest                          116.2        95.0     181.0       175.0
Current assets                      2,535.7    2,327.0   3,438.0     3,403.0
Current liabilities                  846.0    1,166.0   1,448.0      1,607.0
Outstanding lono-ters debt            616.9      516.0   1,220.0       965.0
Equity                          4,006.0    4,744.0  6,078.0       7,084.0
Current ratio                           3.0        2.5       2.4          2.4
Long-term debt/equity ratio           13/84      10/90     17/83         1Z/8
Debt service coverage ratio             3.0        2.7       3.1          2.9
Eais
Revenues                           4.635.3    5,379.5   7,923.7      9.471.3
Met profit before tax                 537.4      473.8     658.9       797.7
Net profit after tax                  241.1      220.7     304.9       372.2
Internal cash generation b/          320.1       338.3     480.2       592.7
Principal                          231.2      3Z2.0    1d8.9        153.8
Interest                           88.4       113.6    206.4        236.6
Current assets                      3,718.4    3,604.3   5,308.9     6,345.8
Current liabilities                 1,899.4    1.958.0   3,040.5     3.7b8.7
Outstanding long-term debt            b92.5      696.2   1,356.8      1,610.0
Equity                              3,113.4    4,070.9  5,755.3      7.196.0
Current ratio                           2.0        1.5       1.7          1.7
Long-term debt/equity ratio           18/82      15/85     19/81       18(82
Debt service coverage ratio             1.4        1.1       1.8         2.2
Blogal
Revenues                            3,098.1    3,876.0   5,454.8     61792.4
Net profit before tax                404.1       496.6    559.1        749.8
Net profit after tax                  188.4      232.2     Z61.4       350.5
Internal cash generation b/          215.2       288.5    390.5        506.2
Principal                          92.3        84.8      90.8       240.6
Interest                           92.8        96.3     275.3       289.2
Current assets                      1,526.9    1,976.8   2,781.9     3,464.1
Current liabilities                   689.4      986.6   1,776.7     2,322.1
Outstanding long-term debt            533.7      595.5   2.061.7     1,77:.;
Equity                              1,585.8    2,329.9   3,256.5     3,o7OJ
Current ratio                           2.6        2.0       1.6          !.5
Long-term c-btIequity ratio           25/75      20/80     20/80       31/69
Debt service coverage ratio             1.7        2.2       2.2          1.b
a/ See footnote on previous page.
k   See footnote on previous page.
Industry Department
February 1985



Cespamles                           1tca.alg U1111.ati-                                               u                           - OeratiaU        guts-             aita  Cais
sad S"*jus                            ku  CIs"                W        1         701            -101     -MI      -31             410      +4        *n              4:0        M
Cs_si  Rtchtw
lujcitss                          3                  37        36       34              a6       aa        a               a7       ao        U              35        U
Fwuulmtasnt.e1id                   40                40        s        85              40        IT       34              40       41        40              9        36
ZajgcUsas                         41                 as        a        21              Oa       f         It              26       31         6      U                36
ktlivslsgdlsats                    6                 77                 57              75        63       49              as       7         n1              ae       75
rwm.SiMsn                         34                 B         e1        13             Ed        16        2              29       25        19              St       a
pvruthwuLds                       71                 62        SI       39              57        41       19              U        55        46              6         1
Elio
Liqid ramlht, ls                  44                 40       3a        30              so        92       25              41       U         34              40       U
Card lsvlars                       61                54        46       38              52        40       at              57       54        50              86       U
Vst. hIvatiess                    24                  19       i3        6              14       Mg       nq               16       10       si               21       19
Eersrlsiins                       24                 21        17      l               1e        It        3              20       16        10             U         2a
Sinthn1s                          20                 16        12        9              12         a      wg               15        9         2              is       16
Surgical Plsws                    25                  19       14        7              14       Mg       u"               17        9       rAg              a        0
Olagreusi  Tusts                  Be                 4         a        29              41   t 9           is              46       40        14              47       44
Witloao.1a
buanchlore. kid                   46                 4         as    a a                Ua        16      sq               3S       a         l6              4Q       40
to" Ex da sbeins                  49                 S         aa       2e             354       as         9              U        Is        27             19        E6
IStlftim   Plans                  57                 51        44       32              40        a        No              40       27         4              512      40
asg: rptiSv
Itril  O5p5ttSO
Aw 19K 
0iU
"~t-



- 88 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 2 of 2
HNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
SENISITIVITY ANALYSIS
MDI Subproj ect
Economic
Rate of
Return (Z)
Base Case                                                     19
Capital Costs:
+10%
+20Z                                                     17
15
Ainiline Prices:
$700 per ton                                            17
$800 per ton                                            14
$900 per ton                                            12
MDI prices:
-10%                                                     14
at present levels ($1,330 per ton)                     12
-20Z                                                     8
Capacity Utilization
90Z                                                    18
80%                                                    16
70%                                                    14
Industry Department
February 1985



- 89 -
ANNEX 8-2
HUNGARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
PROJECT NET IMPACT ON CONVERTIBLE CURRENCY TRADE BALANCE in 1990
Million Forints
(in Constant 1984 terms)
Convertible Currencies
Raw      Incremental
Import      Incremental Materials  Raw material            Net
Company and Subproject            Substitution    Exports      Savings      Imports           Impact
(1)           (2)          (3)        (4)           (1)4(2)+(3)-(4)
CHinoin
Active Ingredients                    -              348         -           42                306
Injections                            -              389         -           -                 389
Fermentation                          -              238         -           31                207
Pyrethroids                           -              331         -           84                247
Gedeon Richter
Injections                            -              305         -           74                231
Fermentation!Steroids                 -              230         134        100                264
Egis
Liquid Preparations                   -              745          -           4                741
Caridovasculars                       -              242          -          28                214
Vet. Preparation                      -              190          -          24                166
Biogal
Formulation Plant                     -              393          -          24                369
Synthesis Plant                       36              60          -          33                 63
Surgical Plasters (1991)              20             133          -          10                143
Reanal
Diagnostic Tests                      59               4          -           7                 56
Nitrokemia
Monochloracetic Acid                  91               -          -          63                 28
Ion Exchange Resins                   -             890           -         260                630
Caola
Sulfonation Plant                    245             -            -         141                104
BVK
MDI                                  180            1,000         -          50              1,130
Total                      631            5,498        134        975              5,288
US$ million                      12.6          110.0         2.7        1q.5              105.8
a; Actual Imports in 1983.
Industry Department
February 1985



H UN GARY
FINE CHEMICALS PROJECT
Locafion of Production Plants
____ roads                           CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Rad1rocacis
Carols
R.wers
KILOmErERS 0   IC  20   30 doQC                                         cap.,-'
MbILES O    IC      ,                                @     eo,e ccJra*-
_  - - - Megye (county) bonciaries
-s .- International boundaries
48.  ')                      F'r-yd!lctio l -iit-
AUSTRIA                                               *   Car'"pJ". s  lir,;
C o 1hiO1c''O-orto-- ............                                       / 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z- N, ,                              i
6 IfON             R  s m
SzombolheIy_-                                                    Szekesfeherva'- f           .     : 
Z~~~~s .w- )A  t o 
)    (2 aeges--g                 r-                     -             t              X,'/oda
oz~~~Sk              y    ~ov.o(o.                ./          -                                                   K. ;   \
.1      -                                                                     ,-                         \t
,  S  aE t  g   iN,    /
t\         /          ~ ~/              S                          =e.::trd
.                  tE             '             1     ---~~~~~~. 
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                     t~  >4
r 3:k I                              -,           *   a r r n aa' re A rv  -hr  aW   fe/
Szombathely;Sz_Kes her r                         a         ay ,  0 a _



I BR =
-~~~~131
:)OSLOVAK IA                                                                                                                                    U.S. S. R.
BVK~~V
.%               ,_                                                                                         .,>-(
r~~~~~~~~~~                                                               'o
r t    t    <            ,     ek                     /                         / _o.e s
RI-
kesz.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soue
g  ~~~~                             <:                                       <                           MU~~~~~RMANIA
2f1   A                     N )- tKCG>_^   
x J < | t ~~~~~~~~~~~~ - / E -/~~~~~~~~~~~o~'Sew,ulfcolu                                                  '          ocj,sro~ D -ocgc.on P-----
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                                                .. /\wo .   .-de  ^c -A   er   1,: 
\   ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~              < fi          \              gX    a       s      o            ^. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gedeo~  ~cqle - aI
-1\ .. I )   - -
z;    -".:. Ca'dc.a1 s~I
*OC~   A Orl.. MgC"5
- CS.a'C c     laswam
-Qa,,a - e
4dn..dhI. a' 3e                                              d_                             -a - S,.ct ao' Plae
t~~~~~~~~~zg                                                                                                                                       U S..5  R-eeST;       Sab       )_Boa  o-L-n
_               ;akc                                                         IL       LO V_
POMANIA
11001-           NA ~              ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-= 
V.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ YUGOS L A VA
BULGARIA
wremaM by~ 7he WoMil aw*ssta  5tP cus~ fa be coCe,,.0'CC of
.,.cA.et* So me eftvnaP uise of The mt"d Ba"' amd tf- 't ,en,aonaw
TPie oen -lolbOl -sed 2nd EPI botv'daneS SI,c' dfl ff1. IlIA CO nap 
FThe WOW1 Ba,.  j Me kdernf,ona FC.2ne C~onWoo,a.O  S,y AV
31 any lMtwlIV  a.v endo5emenff Or aceeaFf' Of SICIl Doonwxl&          )
-ITALY  .              -         '--
20                                                                                           -     \  5  O JGREEC~     * ?' \: 5^BP.1 OG.-8G
MARC1



