Document of
The.World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rjit No. P-5453-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 14.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
JANUARY 4, 1991
Tbis docment has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only In te peoance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherise be dbelosed without World ULak authodiation



CURRNCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 4, 1991)
Currency unit - Lempira (L)
US$1.0 . L 5.30
L 1.0 - US$0.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANASUPRO        Suplidora Nacional de Productos Basicos
(National Supplier of Basic Products)
ENEE             Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica
(Electric Power Company)
PHIS             Instituto Hondureno de Inversiones Sociales
IDA              International Development Association
IDB              Interamerican Development Bank
IHMA             Instituto Hondureno de Mercado Agricola
(National Agricultural Marketing Institute)
IMF              International Monetary Fund
MOE              Ministry of Education
MOH              Ministry of Health
RUTA             Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SDR              Special Drawing Right
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Paie No.
Credit and Program Sumary
PART I  : COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE                1
STRATEGY
A. Past Policies and Recent Economic Performance           I
B. Government Economic Reform Program                     3
C. Agenda for Future Policy Reform                        6
D. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing                    8
Requirements
E. Bank Group Operations                                  9
F. Summary Assessment                                    13
PART II : THE RATIONALE FOR SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCE                     14
PART III:  THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                       15
A. Credit Amount and Conditions                          15
B. Cofinancing                                           16
C. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing                16
D. Risks                                                 17
PART IV : RECONMENDATION                                             17
*            ANNEXES
I : Balance of Payments Projections, 1991
D               II   : Projected Financing Requirements, 1991
III : Economic Indicators: National Accounts, External Trade,
Balance of Payments, External Capital and Debt, Public
Finance and Credit, Social Indicators
IV : Status of Bank Group Operations
V   : Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
VI   : Matrix of Actions
Map : IBRD 19771
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performea.Ice
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMHARY
Borrower:             Republic of Honduras
Amounts                SDR 14.3 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Termss                 Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years
Including a grace period of 10 years.
Description:           The proposed credit would support the Government's
structural adjustment program for which a Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) of US$90 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on September
13, 1990. It would supplement the financing provided
under the first tranche of SAL II to meet Honduras'
additional external financing needs, necessitated by
the impact of higher oil prices and lower-than
expected banana export earnings for 1990-91.
Proiect Benefits:      Benefits are identical to those expected under SAL
II, i.e. that the adjustment program would be
expected to (i) accelerate export growth and increase
domestic savings while creating the preconditions for
a recovery of economic growth and employment and (ii)
strengthen the country's creditworthiness,
facilitating its access to external financial flows
needed to attain long-term, sustainable growth.
Proiect Risks:         The main risk centers on the Government's ability to
maintain the required political consensus to avoid
slippage in the pace of implementation of the
reforms. Other major risks which can affect the
program are the Government's abiAity to generate the
required public savings on account of negative shifts
on Honduras' terms of trade and on the country's
capacity to obtain sufficient foreign capital during
the initial years of the program.
Estimated
Disbursements:         The proceeds of the credit would be available for
disbursement in one tranche upon credit
effectiveness.
Appraisal Reports      This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's
Report.
Ma Ds                  IBRD 19771



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of SDR 14.3 million (US$20
million equivalent) to supplement the first tranche released under the
US$90 million Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Report No. P-5355-HO)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on September 13, 1990 in
support of the Government's economic reform program. This is the first IDA
credit to Honduras since 1980, and is being proposed in accordance with the
recent decision to declare Honduras eligible for IDA credits (see
SECM90-1128, dated August 24, 1990). The present estimate of per capita
income for Honduras for 1990 is US$481. The other elements of IDA
eligibility as described in the memorandum to the Executive Directors
remain unchanged.   The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with 35
years maturity including a grace period of 10 years.
2.       This credit is being proposed in response to the sharp rise in
international oil prices stemming from the Gulf crisis and its impact on
Honduras' balance of payments, compounded by major banana export losses as
a consequence of a banana workers strike in mid-1990 and recent flood
damages.  These developments have led to a significant gap in the country's
external financing plan for 1991. This credit forms part of a concerted
donor effort to assist Honduras in meeting the external funding
requirements of its stabilization and adjustment program.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Past Policies and Recent Economic Performance
3.       Introduction.  Honduras is one of the poorest countries in the
Western Hemisphere with a population of 5.0 million that is growing at 2.8Z
a year. Following a series of currency devaluations this year, Honduras'
per capita income is estimated at US$481 in 1990, higher only than that of
Bolivia, Haiti and Nicaragua. Extreme poverty affects over 50 percent of
the population nationally and nearly 80 percent in rural areas. Infant
mortality is over 60 per 1000 live births. Malnutrition is severe,
particularly among children, and nearly two thirds of the population lack
adequate housing and sanitary facilities. More than 30 percent of the
adult population is illiterate.
4.       Until recently Honduras' development strategy was inward-looking,
based on import substitution behind high protective barriers and extensive
government intervention involving credit subsidies, price controls and tax
incentives. As a result of this strategy, the manufacturing sector is
inefficient, much of agricultural production does not reflect the country's
comparative advantage and overall productivity is low.



5.       Honduras' most important sector is agriculture, with output
dominated by two crops - coffee and bananas - which account for 55 percent
of total exports. Honduras' dependence on two major commodities with
widely varying prices has been partly responsible for persistent balance of
payments difficulties, as booming exports have tended to fuel domestic
expenditures, which failed to contract when export prices declined.
6.       Honduras, together with other Central American countries,
experienced a severe drop in economic activity during the early 1980s.
While real GDP growth had averaged 5 percent per annum during the 1960s and
1970s, it averaged only 1.1 percent per annum during the first half of the
1980s, well below annual population growth. Between 1981 and 1988 gross
domestic investment as a share of GDP averaged 16Z, compared to 22Z during
the 1970s, due primarily to the sharp decline in private investment which
fell from an annual average of about 14 percent in the 1970s to less than 8
percent during most of the 1980s.
7.       Access to abundant bilateral and multilateral credit allowed the
Government to stave off a major balance of payments crisis and to avoid for
several years the painful adjustment measures needed to address the
economy's structural problems. As a consequence, Honduras external debt
grew sharply during the 19809 almost tripling to over US$s.O billion by
1989; a significant factor for this increase was the financing of a large
hydroelectric project, El Cajon, in which the Bank participated.
Approximately 75 percent of the total external debt is held by official
creditors while multilateral debt accounts for 45 percent of the total. In
1987, however, both coffee prices collapsed and the pattern of net positive
capital inflows stopped, unmasking the underlying structural distortions
constraining economic growth.
8.       Recent Economic Developments.  A series of ad hoc measures by the
Government in 1987 temporarily averted a massive financial disequilibrium.
However, the Government's recourse to arrears and the financing of the
public sector deficit from domestic sources intensified pressures on the
balance of payments and triggered an acceleration of inflation. By 1988
Honduras was in arrears with all of its creditors, inflation was on the
rise, and the difference between the official and parallel exchange rates
widened to 40 percent. The Government's efforts to undertake a program of
economic reform were supported by a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln.
2990-HO) for US$50 million approved by the Executive Directors in September
1988. The economic reform program was aborted shortly after the release of
the first tranche as the Government grew increasingly reluctant to adopt
the necessary strong stabilization and adjustment measures. Negotiations
with the IMF on a standby were derailed and the economic situation
continued to deteriorate with accumulated external debt service arrears
reaching over US$450 million by March 1989 and the gap between the official
and parallel exchange rates growing to 60?.
9.       Honduras' economic performance in 1989 reflected the fundamental
structural weaknesses in the economy that made lonig-term growth
unsustainable unless a major economic reform program was implemented.  Real
GDP growth fell from 4.7 percent in 1988 to 2 percent in 1989. Gross
domestic investment and national savings declined during the 1980s,



reaching 13 percent and 6.1 percent of GDP, respectively in 1989. At 9.2
percent of GDP, the overall public sector deficit remained high despite
sharp declines in public investment, and public sector savings were
negative (-2 percent of GDP). The current account deficit of the balance
of payments reached 6.7 percent of GDP, and the Government's insistence on
maintaining an overvalued exchange rate continued to reduce the
competitiveness of Honduras' exports. Net external financing, including
grants, was not sufficient to cover the fiscal deficit and the Government
resorted to domestic financing in an amount equivalent to 5.1 percent of
GDP. The rate of domestic inflation as measured by the WPI increased to
about 20 percent in 1989 (4.8 percent in 1988), and Honduras' arrears on
its external debt reached US$630 million. By the end of 1989, Honduras had
entered into stagflation, while the black market exchange rate reached over
L4/US$l, i.e. more than double the L2/US$1 official rate.
HONDURAS: Basic Economic Indicators
Growth Rates (Z per annum)
1973-80   1980-88    1988   1989
Gross Domestic Product               5.3        2.3       4.7    2.1
Total Consumption                    6.1        2.5       6.0    0.6
Gross Domestic Investment            9.3       -3.8      -4.9    0.9
Exports                              3.6        1.4       3.6    4.6
Imports                              7.3      -1.3        1.5    0.5
Inflation (CPI period averages)      9.9        5.7       4.5    9.8
Population                           3.5        3.5       3.1    2.8
B. Government Economic Reform Program
10.      The Callejas Government, which assumed office in late January
1990, has set out to redefine the role of the state through a radical but
long overdue economic reform and restructuring program. The essential aim
is to reduce the complex regulatory framework and costly subsidies which
pervade the economy, and to encourage private sector investments through
reform of the trade regime, public sector management reforms, changes in
pricing and credit policies, financial sector reforms, and establishment of
a long-term macroeconomic framework free of distortions.
11.      On March 2, 1990, in e sharp break with past economic policies,
the Government embarked on a bold program of economic reforms for which it
sought the support of the Bank, IMP and Interamerican Development Bank
(IDB). The major policy changes included: (i) a trade reform, reducing the
range of the tariff structure from 90-1 percent to 20-5 percent by 1992 and
eliminating most exemptions and surcharges; (ii) adoption ofl a flexible
exchange rate management policy with an initial adjustment of the exchange
rate to L4/US$l (with the exception of debt equity conversions which
remained at the official L2/US$l rate); (iii) a fiscal revenue package,
which by introducing changes in the rates of sales and other taxes,
eliminating exemptions in the trade regime and imposing temporary taxes on



- 4-
exports, was expected to increase Central Government revenues from 16
percent of GDP in 1989 to 21 percent of GDP in 1990; and (iv) a Government
budget for 1990 which limits current expenditures to about 21 percent of
GDP, turning around the consolidated public sector savings to about 0.5
percent of GDP (-2 percent in 1989). Despite the effect of the devaluation
on public sector debt service (an increase of about 2 percent of GDP), the
overall public sector deficit was targeted to be reduced to 6.9 percent of
GDP, permitting its financing with only small recourse to domestic credit
(0.5 percent of GDP).
12.      In order to cushion the social effects of its adjustment program,
the Government has created the Honduran Social Investment Fund (PHIS) to
operate flexibly and efficiently. The FHIS combines an emergency
employment strategy with the objective of poverty alleviation through the
financing of social infrastructure such as rehabilitation of health posts,
schools, water and sewerage systems, emergency employment programs,
targeted projects in health, nutrition, and education, and a limited number
of productive projects. The Government is also developing a program, with
the support of the Bank and in the context of SAL II, to address the
longer-term issues of education and health services.
13.      Under the umbrella of the Bank-chaired Consultative Group for
Honduras, a bridge financing package was arranged with the support of the
U.S., Japan, Venezuela and Mexico, and in late June/early July 1990
Honduras cleared all outstanding arrears with its multilateral creditors.
On July 3. 1990, the Executive Directors approved the release of the second
tranche of SAL I. A standby arrangement was approved by the IMF's Board on
July 27, 1990. In support of the Government's stabilization and adjustment
efforts, a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3257-HO) for US$90
million was approved by the Bank on September 13, 1990. A detailed
description of the Government's adjustment program and SAL II tranche
conditionality is contained in the SAL II President's Report. The policy
matrix is attached as Annex V to this report. Honduras reached agre*ment
with its bilateral creditors at a September 14, 1990 meeting of the Paris
Club, receiving the most favorable terms recently adopted by the Club for
highly-indebted, lower-middle income countries.
14.      Macroeconomic Stabilization.  The Government's request for a
standby arrangement for SDR 30.5 million was approved by the IMP's
Executive Board on July 27, 1990. The first disbursement of SDR 16.95
million was made on August 3, 1990. The IMP completed its first review on
December 19, 1990. The second disbursement of SDR 4.3 million was made on
December 26, 1990. Although the standby performance criteria for end-
September were met for cumulative central government expenditures, the
contracting of public sector debt, and increases in short-term credits, the
Government was unable to meet the criteria for net international reserves,
net domestic assets of the Central Bank, external arrears and net domestic
financing of the public sector.  The Government requested a waiver for the
nonobservence of the performance criteria for end-September and a
modification of some of the performance cUiterta for end-December. In
light of the authorities implementation of corrective measures to bring the
program back on track, the IMF approved the waiver and other modifications
requested. The next review is scheduled for January 1991.



15.      Adiustment Performance.  Implementation progress to date under the
adjustment program has been good. Following further discussions and
agreement between the Government and the IMF on corrective stabilization
measures in late October and early November 1990, the first tranche of
US$45 million of SAL II was released on November 15, 1990. The trade
reform is proceeding as announced by the Government. In addition, the
temporary tax on non-traditional exports was phased out in October in
advance of the Decermber 31, 1990 target date under SAL II. In the fiscal
area, the Government has continued to adhere to the agreed targets despite
*          the adverse effects of the oil shock, banana strike and recent flood
damages. Although the expected increase in tax revenues did not
materialize because of tax administration deficiencies, the targeted
reduction in the fiscal deficit was achieved because of a higher-than-
planned reduction in current expenditures (excluding interest payments).
To strengthen the finances of public enterprises, major price hikes for
public utilities (water, telephones and electricity) were approved by the
Congress in September 1990. Fuel prices were increased significantly in
October 1990, which has resulted in full pass-through of international
prices for oil products to domestic consumers, discontinuing the earlier
policy of subsidization and its negative fiscal impact.
16.      In spite of restrictive fiscal and monetary policies, the initial
adjustment of the exchange rate was not sufficient to deter continued
speculation against the Lempira and the exchange rate was further adjusted
in May 1990 to L4.2/US$l. Public uncertainty regarding the Government's
ability to sustain the fiscal reform effort widened the gap between the
official and parallel rates to 35Z, prompting the Government to introduce a
two-tier exchange rate regime with an official exchange rate of L4.2/US$l
and freely floating exchange rate that reached L5.8/US$l by September of
1990. In October, the official exchange rate was adjusted to L5.5/US$l and
the previously free segment of the foreign exchange market was eliminated.
The exchange rate was further adjusted in late October to L5.4/US$l and
again in December to L5.3/US$l.
17.      In the financial area, interest rate lending ceilings for trade
commerce and consumer loans were eliminated in October 1990.  In November,
lending interest rates were also fully liberalized for industry and
agroindustry, leaving ceilings for only domestic agriculture and low-cost
housing (representing about one third of commercial banks' loan portfolio).
The remaining ceilings will be adjusted in line with the average effective
rate in the free interest rate segment of the market and will be eliminated
by the end of the IMF stand-by program (July 1991). A Bank supervision
mission to review compliance with SAL TI second tranche conditionality will
be visiting Honduras in January/February 1991. The policy matrix attached
to this report indicates our current assessment of compliance by condition
for the second tranche, with a number of conditions to be reviewed in
detail during the mission.



- 6-
C. Agenda for Future Policy Reform
18.      Key Issues.  Honduras' medium-term growth strategy requires
measures that will provide a stable economic environment to increase
domestic savings, and a. price incentive system which will maximize private
sector investment in export-oriented and efficient import-substitution
activities. Htaintaining sound monetary, exchange rate and fiscal policies
under a stabilization program will be fundamental to the success of
adjustment policies required for long-term growth. The major elements of
such a program will need to include (i) a continuing reduction of the
public sector def:.cit; (ii) a reduction in inflation to international
levels; (iii) full liberalization of domestic interest rates; and (iv) a
freely floating exchange rate regime to be achieved as part of the IMF
standby arrangement by July 1991.  The principal areas of the medium-term
adjustment policy agenda include (i) further reform of public enterprises;
(ii) rationalization of the price incentive framework; (iii) measures to
reduce poverty through social sectors reform; and (iv) prudent management
of the country's natural resources and environment.
19.      Public Enterprise Reform.  The public enterprises in Honduras have
contributed to the fiscal deficit and external public debt service. The
public enterprise sector grew rapidly during the 1960s and 1970s,
reflecting the Government's desire to spearhead economic development,
create employment and promote the growth of underdeveloped areas. However,
the sector has performed erratically, and its contribution to the national
economy has not been commensurate with the amount of resources it has
absorbed. Some public enterprises have developed an excessive and
unsustainable dependence on public financing. At the same time, a rapid
build-up of Government arrears to some public utilities threatens their
financial viability.
20.      Reform of the public enterprise system will requires  (i)
institutional and regulatory changes in the framework governing the
functioning of the enterprises and their relationship with the Central
Government; (ii) modifications in the price adjustment and collection
mechanism; and (iii) strengthening of the internal organization and
management of the enterprises themselves. A case of special concern is
that of the power company, ENEE (which holds about 252 of Honduras' foreign
debt). The financial obligations incurred for the construction of E1
Cajon, together with the additional financial requirements associated with
the weakening of the US dollar (69X of ENEE's external debt is denominated
in currencies other than the US dollar) have forced the company to incur
arrears with most of its lenders. The Energy Sector Adjustment loan will
support, inter alia, a financial restructuring of ENEE and the development
of a comprehensive energy sector policy and strategy, focusing on the
application of tariff and investment principles based on economic and
financial criteria.



- 7 -
21.      Incentive Framework.  Continued financial sector and fiscal
reform, further price and trade liberalization and a reduction in
Government regulation of economic activities are essential for fostering
private sector-led growth. Considerable progress has already been made in
these areas. Price controls constitute a problem primarily in the
agriculture sector. The Government's program calls for a major overhaul of
its pre-1990 policies for agriculture. The guarantee price system and
quantitative restrictions on basic grains currently administered by IHMA
(National Supplier of Basic Products) should be eliminated and in the case
of corn replaced by a flexible tariff system. Public sector interference
in marketing of other agricultural products should be phased out. To that
end, IHMA and BANASUPRO's (National Agricultural Marketing Institute)
purchasing and marketing activities are to be increasingly transferred to
the private sector, with prices determined competitively. Specific action
programs to meet these objectives have been agreed with the Bank under SAL
II.
22.      Social Sectors.  There is still widespread poverty in Honduras,
reflected in the low per capita income figure and low health, nutrition and
education indicators. Basic infrastructure for health and education are
inadequate and social services delivery is inequitable. The primary health
care system currently reaches only 60X of its target population. There is
a lack of basic equipment and supplies for health posts and an insufficient
number of paramedical personnel. In education, there is a shortage of
classrooms, textbooks, and teaching materials. This situation has been
exacerbated by the austerity measures undertaken as part of the
Government's stabilization and adjustment program. The major issues in the
social sectors include: (i) inadequate emphasis on primary education, (ii)
a focus on curative rather than preventive health care, (iii) inadequate
incentives for teachers and health workers resulting in inefficiency in
delivery of social services, (iv) excessive centralization of budget, staff
and services, (v) insufficient cost recovery, and (vi) lack of
institutional capacity of social ministries and line agencies.
23.      Recognizing the lack of capacity of the social ministries to
address the long-term issues of health and education efficiently and
equitably, the Government has requested the Bank's support to improve
service delivery of the MOH and MOE. This would imply a broad and far-
reaching restructuring of the social sectors. The Bank has been helping
the Government analyze the issues and has started discussions on possible
strategies for restructuring the sectors.
24.      Natural Resource Management and the Environment.  Honduras' main
environmental problems are deforestation, waste of wood resources and land
erosion. Deforestation has proceeded at an alarming rate. Forests
accounted for 6.8 million ha. in 1964, but only for 5 million ha. in 1988.
Because of promising world market prospects for wood, appropriate
management techniques of this forest is of special value for the country's
long-term economic prospects. Land misuse is also a costly problem.
According to 1986 data, the area suited for cropping was about 1.9 million
ha., of which 1 million were appropriate for annual crops and the



- 8 -
difference was suitable for perennial crops, or artificial pasture.
However, crops and pastures utilized 2.8 million ha. of which 1.5 million
ha. were for crops cultivated in lands suitable only for forest. Soil
erosion is increasing. If present trends continue, land erosion may affect
food supplies, increase the possibility of flooding and become a major
problem by reducing the life of hydroelectric plants.
25.      Deforestation and land misuse have been encouraged by economic
policy and legislation which does not guarantee private property rights
over the forest. The Government's agricultural strategy, supported by the
proposed Agricuture Sector Adjustment loan, would address these issues,
based on an examination of the legal provisions which have led to the waste
of forest resources and the inadequate use of land, and of the regulatory
environment and the economic incentives and disincentives for the
conservation and exploitation of forest resources.
D. Medium Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
26.      As the initial impact of the March 1990 measures filtered down,
employment and growth deteriorated. Agricultural production is expected to
increase only slightly in 1990 because of the losses in banana production.
Modest gains in production levels in the manufacturing sector were offset
by a slowdown in construction and services. Real GD? is now projected to
decline by 3-4 percent in 1990. The rate of inflation has also increased
as the CPI rose by an annualized rate of 32 percent in the first eleven
months of the year.
27.      Despite this short-term deterioration, the stabilization and
adjustment measures taken sa far have improved the country's long-term
balance of payments and growth prospects. Honduras' rich agricultural
resources, tourism and hydrocarbon potential offer the opportunity for
diversified growth in many sectors of the economy, with excellent prospects
for exports, given its easy access to the U.S. market and its comparative
advantage in agricultural production.
28.      As indicated pr'viously, the full potential of the Honduran
economy has been construined during the 19809 by the deterioration of the
terms of trade and by the misallocation of resources cre^-ted by the
Government's macroeconomic policies. Although little can be done to avoid
the effects of external shocks on the domestic economy, a shift in domestic
policies away from protectionism and Government intervention in the economy
should encourage the private sector to invest in activities where Honduras
holds a strong international comparative advantage. With the appropriate
exchange rate policy, trade liberalization should increase the real
exchange rate, shifting resources toward the production of exportable goods
where Honduras is internationally competitive such as bananas, coffee,
shrimp farming, vegetable production, and fruit to be supplied in the
Northern winter period such as melon, watermelon, etc. Moreover, efficient
import substitution would complement the effects of export expansion by
reducing the country's imports of basic grains. Early indications suggest
a record harvest for corn, which may even permit corn exports in 1991.
Because of the high labor content of all these activities, Honduras'
unemployment rate is expected to gradually drop and employment to shift
from subsidized jobs (in Government or supported by the Government's
protectionist policies), to jobs sustainable over the long term.



- 9 -
29.      Flexible management of the exchange rate and the fiscal adjustment
measures taken by the Government should result in a real devaluation that
restores the puichasing power parity of the early 1970s. Although import
volumes are initially squeezed as their domestic currency price rises,
Honduras' cost competitiveness is expected to rise strongly as the
Government's trade liberalization measures are implemented. Conversion of
quantitative restrictions to tariffs will increase public sector revenues.
Over the medium-term, however, trade liberalization will reduce the revenue
impact of tariffs and will change the pattern of imports. Border pricing
will eliminate distortions which adversely affect agricultural sector
productivity. Interest rate liberalization and an ending to credit
allocation policies will increase private savings and private investment.
30.      Bank projections (Annex III) indicate that implementation of the
stabilization and adjustment measures would help maintain Honduras' price
stability, strengthen long-term growth prospects, and improve the balance
of payments situation. Public sector savings should turn around from
negative in 1988-89 to around 3.5 percent of GDP in 1995. The overall
public sector deficit is projected to fall to 2.8 percent of GDP by 1995,
allowing a drop in the net domestic financing to the public sector from 5.1
percent in 1989 to less than 1 percent in 1995. Led by the private sector,
total investment is expected to recover, reaching 19 percent of GDP in
1995.
31.      Acceleration in the growth of non-traditional exports should
result from the liberalization of the trade regime and the flexible
management of the exchange rate, which would provide incentives for private
sector investment in export-oriented activities. Real exports are expected
to grow at about 6.0 percent per annum after 1992, with non-traditional
exports increasing at a rate of almost 7.0 percent per annum. The rate of
GDP growth is expected to increase slowly, reaching almost 3.5 in 1993, and
after initially jumping in response to the exchange rate adjustment of
1990, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is projected
to fall to around 4 percent of GDP by 1995.
32.      The 1991-95 financing requirements for this scenario are shown in
Annex ITT. Although gross funding requirements would remain large (because
scheduled amortization is expected to be quite heavy--on the order of
US$150 million until 1994, equivalent to 52 of the average 1989-91 GDP),
the economy is expected to become less dependent on foreign transfers. All
debt indicators would improve. Inflows from grants are projected to drop
from US$175 million in 1990 to about US$70 million in 1995. A large
portion, however, would remain financed by bilateral sources, indicating
the importance of aid coordination efforts in mobilizing resources from
bilateral and multilateral sources to ensure the success of the program.
E. Bank Group Operations
33.      Composition of Lending Operations.  Total lending from the World
Bank Group as of November 30, 1990 stands at US$785.9 million, consisting
of 36 loans for US$700.9 million and 12 credits for US$85 million. The 12



- 10 -
credits are fully disbursed; 30 loans are also fully disbursed. The
remaining 6 loans have US$81 million undisbursed as of November 30, 1990.
Honduras has repaid the Bank Group US$200.8 million and has a total
outstanding IBRD debt of US$422.4 and IDA debt of US$77 million. A summary
of operations for the last ten years is given in Table 1 below.
Table I
HONDURAS: Distribution of Lending. FYBl-91
(US$ millions)
Sector                           Amount      2      No. of Prolects
Agriculture                          70.0       21.2         2
Industry and Finance                 65.5       19.9         2
Transport                            23.2        7.0         1
Water                                19.6        6.0         1
Municipal Development                 6.9        2.1         1
Education                             4.4        1.3         1
Adjustment Operations               140.0       42.5         2
TOTAL                            329.6     100.0         10
34.      Past lending initially concentrated on developing basic
infrastructure in power and transport where inadequate facilities hampered
the country's development. In the last decade, it has diversified to
support the expansion of productive capacity in agriculture and industry
and meet urgent needs in education, municipal development and water supply.
In contrast, the present lending strategy emphasizes medium-term structural
adjustment prompted by the major economic distortions which emerged as
external aid flows to Honduras diminished. In view of the urgent need to
control the current financial crisis, the Bank Group's strategy is also
focused on support for the Government's program of macroeconomic adjustment
in the short-term (para. 18).
35.      Operational Objectives. The main objectives of the Bank's
assistance strategy for Honduras over the medium-term are tot (i) promote
development of the country's growth and export prospects and strengthen its
creditworthiness by supporting the Government's program of structural
adjustment through a series of SALs and SECALs; (ii) assist the Government
in mobilizing and diversifying sources of the external finance needed for
Honduras' public sector investment program especially on concessional terms
through coordination of the Consultative Group for Honduras and greater
cofinancing of Bank Group operations; (iii) support a limited number of
investment projects in priority sectors, especially in programs targeted to
alleviate the impact of adjustment on the poorest sectors of the economy;
and (iv) resume regular investment financing around the second year of the
adjustment program as country creditworthiness is strengthened.



- 11 -
36.      Bank support for the macroeconomic adjustment effort has included:
the reactivation of SAL I (on July 3, 1990, the Executive Directors
approved the release of the second tranche); a second structural adjustment
loan for US$90 million, which is being supplemented by this proposed
credit; and sector adjustment loans in Energy and Agriculture currently
scheduled for Board presentation in CY91.
37.      SAL II.  Major actions supported by SAL II include: (i) Export and
Trade - flexible management of the exchange rate, rationalization of the
tariff structure with reduction in the range from 90-1 percent to 20-5
percent by 1992, elimination of all exemptions and surcharges, elimination
of all import licenses, and introduction of a new export incentive system;
(ii) Public Sector Manaaement - limits on public sector investment, targets
for increasing savings from the telephone and water companies, reforms in
the tax system and tax administration; (iii) Agriculture Sector -
elimination of all guaranteed prices and price controls, with the exception
of corn for which a flexible tariff system will replace the price guarantee
system; agreement on a program to rationalize the Government purchasing and
marketing agencies; and targets for food and employment assistance; and
(iv) Financial Sector - implementation of a flexible interest rate policy,
administrative unification of all rediscount and credit lines, phasing out
subsidized credit, improvement of the portfolio classification system for
the commercial banking system as well as agreement on a minimum capital to
asset ratio for all banks, and reorganization of the agricultural financial
system.
38.      Energy Sector.  To complement the ongoing efforts under the
adjustment program to streamline decentralized enterprises, the Energy
SECAL under preparatior. will support improvements in the power company's
(ENEE) finances and management and a reduction in its dependence on fiscal
resources. It would also support a new energy sector policy and a program
for petroleum exploration and supply management. Some initial actions have
already been taken, including an electricity tariff increase in September
1990 and debt rescheduling relief obtained through the Paris Club. Other
actions to strengthen the financial and operating performance through
greater autonomy and less Government interference in ENEE's day to day
operations form part of the conditionality being discussed with the
Government in the context of the Energy SECAL.
39.      A2riculture Sector.  Given the dominance of the agriculture sector
in output and exports, the Bank has initiated preparation of an Agriculture
SECAL which would continue with major reforms initiated under SAL II and
would support policy reforms to take advantage of the country's comparative
advantage in agriculture and strengthen agriculture growth in both
traditional and non-traditional exports. The proposed adjustment loan
would address issues related to (i) price and trade policy for agricultural
products; (ii) forest sector policies; (iii) land markets and land tenure
policies; (iv) research and extension; (v) the rural financial sector; and
(vi) institutional reform. The reforms being supported under the loan are
intended to achieve a better use of land and forest resources, increase
productivity by improving research and extension, including expanding the



- 12 -
role of the private sector and making existing institutions more lean and
responsive to farmers' needs, particularly small farmers. Project
preparation in both the agriculture and poverty alleviation areas has been
able to draw on the resources of the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
(RUTA) which is a UNDP/IDB/World Bank supported regional assistance program
to the Central American countries.
40.      Infrastructure.  Our analysis of the infrastructure required for
the success of the export-oriented strategy indicated the need for
strengthening the role of the country's transport system, as well as for
the development of transport policies to make more effective and efficient
use of road and port facilities. The Bank is considering an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project which would serve to address these issues. A sector
study is being initiated to identify the principal constraints the sector
faces and the areas where Bank support can most effectively be targeted.
41.      Poverty Alleviation.  The Bank has taken an active role in
assisting the Government in its two-pronged approach for addressing poverty
through both sustained economic growth and better targeted social programs
for the country's neediest groups. A Social Investment Fund project is
expected to be presented to the Board in early 1991 to support the FHIS as
well as establish a pilot food coupon scheme for mothers and children under
5 years of age, which, if successful, is to be broadened throughout the
country. The Bank also recently completed an indepth analysis of issues in
the social sectors. This is expected to lay the basis for a second social
Sector 'project to improve and enhance the delivery of social services
through the strengthening of the Ministries of Health and Education. The
December 1990 Consultative Group meeting in Paris focused on obtaining
international donor support for these projects and followed on a meeting on
poverty issues in Central America attended by government representatives
and donors held in Paris in June 1990.
42.      Future Lending.  Depending on the progress made in implementing
the key elements of the program, follow-up operations may be proposed
during the five-year programming period, most likely in PY93-FY94, in the
areas of agriculture, natural resource management and the social sectors.
We also plan to support small, technical-assistance focused projects to
help strengthen specific areas of public sector management and to improve
access of the poor to basic services, one of the Government's key
objectives.
43.      Economic and Sector Work.  The Bank's economic and sector work
(ESW) in Honduras provides the intellectual basis for our policy dialogue
and lending activities. Short issues-papers reviewing the overall
macroeconomic situation and identifying measures for immediate policy
action in specific sectors were prepared and discussed with the new
economic team as well as major reports on public sector expenditure and
trade liberalization. A report outlining possible actions for
restructuring the social sectors was reviewed with the Government and
served as one of the background documents for the December 1990
Consultative Group meeting which focused on the Government's poverty
alleviation efforts. Reports on fiscal reform, a new export incentive
system and the public sector investment program are under preparation.
These reports will recommend the detailed actions to satisfy the
conditionality for the second tranche release of SAL II.



- 13 -
44.      As part of the next phase of ESW, annual reviews of public sector
investment will be undertaken, complemented by assistance to be provided to
the Government to strengthen its capacity to plan and prepare a multi-year
investment program, including the ability to evaluate projects and
prioritize investments across sectors. We also plan to complete a general
economic review and an indepth study of the financial sector to follow up
the reforms begun under SAL II. Our sector work will focus on the
preparation of studies in the areas of water supply and sanitation,
transport, marketing infrastructure and education which would underpin our
sector policy dialogue, assist the Government in consolidating the gains
under the adjustment program and providing a foundation for future lending.
45. Relations with the IMF and Aid Coordination.  The Bank and IMF have
been working in close collaboration in Honduras and, along with the IDB,
have assisted the new Government in developing its economic reform program.
The Bank will continue to work closely with the IMF in providing policy
recommendations to maintain macroeconomic stability and to ensure
consistency in policy reforms. Because of Honduras' significant external
financing needs, particularly with the clearance of long-standing
multilateral arrears, aid coordination has played a crucial role in the
success of the program to date. Aid coordination efforts will remain a
high priority given the country's large external resource requirements and
the many interested donors supporting the reform program. The principal
mechanism will be the Consultative Group for Honduras, in conjunction with
informal donor meetings organized around specific macroeconomic policy
issues, including establishment of public investment priorities and the
building of consensus for addressing long-term development issues.
Cofinancing of Bank Group adjustment operations is extensive and could
amount to more than US$200 million, with the IDB as one of the major
sources. The Federal Republic of Germany is cofinancing SAL II and is
expected to participate in the Social Investment Fund project. Discussions
are underway to determine the interest of the Government of Japan in
cofinancing this proposed credit and the Agriculture SECAL. Close
collaboration will be maintained with the IDB and other cofinanciers
through joint project preparation and supervision.
46.      IFC Operations.  IFC, beginning in 1984, has made four loan and
equity investments in Honduras totalling US$11 million in pulp and paper,
leather tanning, textiles and shrimp farming. IFC is working to develop
additional investment projects in priority sectors with an export
orientation and strong sponsors. Projects in agriculture and export
processing zones are under discussion. IFC could also render assistance in
privatization transactions. IFC will continue frequent promotion missions
and to use the Caribbean Project Development Facility to develop viable
project proposals.
F. Summary Assessment
47.      Honduras has begun a long overdue process of economic reform.
Preliminary results of the program have been encouraging although there is
evidence of widespread popular discontent with continued austerity
policies. The private sector remains uncomfortable with the shift to
greater reliance on market forces in lieu of the more traditional means of



- 14 -
seeking relief through direct Government intervention. Consequently, the
country's economic and financial situation remains fragile, particularly
due to the oil price increases and recent flood damages (para. 51), and
could deteriorate rapidly if under political pressure or inadequate levels
of external financing, tba Government reverts to the economic polices of
the past two decades. ThI- Bank's program of assistance, including this
proposed supplemental crcuit to SAL II, plays a key role for supporting the
Government's efforts to deepen its structural reforms and obtain the
financial support of the international donor community.
48.      Our assistance strategy is conditional on the continued
willingness and ability of the Government to carry out the adjustment
effort; it will require constant close monitoring and regular reviews to
adjust the strategy as events develop. Criteria to judge progress would
include a supportive macroeconomic framework, particularly management of
the exchange rate and public finances; public sector management and public
enterprise performance; and progress in social sectors reform. Each sector
adjustment loan would be coordinated with, and tied to, the macroeconomic
adjustment program as well as to relevant elements of other sector loans,
where appropriate.
1I - THE RATIONALE FOR SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
49.      Both the impact of higher oil prices and banana export losses have
adversely affected Honduras' balance of payments in 1990 and 1991.
Honduras is totally dependent on imports for all of its petroleum needs,
taking advantage of the San Jose Accord for the supply of crude oil and oil
products from Mexico and Venezuela. The rapid rise of oil prices, stemming
from the Gulf crisis, seriously worsened the country's balance of payments
and GDP growth, increasing imports of petroleum products and derivatives
from 5.62 of GDP to an estimated 6.8 percent. While prices under the San
Jose Accord are set at world market levels, Honduras receives long-term
financing from Mexico and Venezuela equivalent to 20 percent of its oil
bill for use in the development of energy-related projects.
50.      The original estimate for imports of petroleum and derivatives for
1990 was US$138 million. This is compared with oil imports of US$146
million in 1989 and is based on slight estimated declines in price and in
consumption. Total oil imports are now estimated at US$167 million for
1990. In addition to the financing scheme mentioned above a recent
agreement under the San Jose Accord effective October 1, 1990, extends six
months financing for 30Z of the cost of oil shipments when the price per
barrel exceeds US$21. Oil imports for 1991 are projected at US$198
million.
51.      Both banana production and exports were severely hurt by the
banana workers' strike which lasted from June 22 to August 10, 1990.
Approximately 2.6 million cases of bananas were destroyed or could not be
transported, resulting in export losses of US$18.9 million. Losses of
another 5.4 million cases of bananas at a value of US$39 million have been



- 15 -
attributed to the strike as a result of neglect and inadequate maintenance
of plantings. Recent flooding in the northern coastal areas following
heavy rains have caused additional damages dampening any prospects for a
quick recovery in production.
52.      Taking into account the current account balance impact of both the
oil shock and reduced export earnings from bananas (see Annex I), Honduras'
external financing requirements for 1991 are estimated at US$628 million,
after debt relief provided by the Paris Club rescheduling. Projected
disbursements of grants, loans and credits, including SAL II, net direct
foreign investment and other sources, will provide about US$554 million
(see Annex II). This will leave a net financing gap of about US$74 million
to be met through additional financing.
53.      In view of the impact of the oil shock on Honduras' balance of
payments, combined with banana export losses, the Government's
stabilization and adjustment program requires additional external support.
Lack of adequate financing will affect the flow of crucial imports, with
significant adverse implications for growth in the productive sectors, as
well as Government revenues for the budget. Filling this gap is essential
to the Government's efforts to keep the adjustment program on track.
Support from the World Bank Group and other donors to sustain the program
is critical, especially since the Government has taken important actions to
respond to these shocks and keep their reform program on course. It is in
this context that we are proposing this credit which will act as a catalyst
for mobilizing additional resources quickly to meet Honduras' urgent needs
for fast-disbursing funds. This amount will cover an important part of the
gap for 1991; the rest of the gap will be covered through cofinancing
support from the IDB and bilateral donors (see para. 55 below) and the
short term financial relief provided by Mexico and Venezuela under the San
Jose Accord. Short-term commercial borrowings would meet any remaining
gap.
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Amount and Conditions
54.      The proposed credit would be SDR 14.3 million (US$20 million
equivalent) and would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness to supplement
the first tranche of SAL II. The credit includes two conditionst Mi) for
effectiveness that the macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with
the objectives of the Government's adjustment program (this condition is
also a requirement for the second and third tranche disbursements of SAL
II); and (ii) that the Loan Agreement for SAL II be amended in order to
establish as an additional condition for disbursement of the second and
third tranches, that domestic prices for oil derivatives are adjusted as
necessary in line with changes in world market prices or changes in the
exchange rate between the US dollar and the Lempira.



- 16 -
B. Cofinancing
55.      To meet Honduras' increased need for external financing, the
Government has sought additional support from the international donor
community. In response, the IDB increased the amount of its cofinancing of
the agriculture policy reforms of SAL II from US$50 million to US$60
million. Venezuela, on a bilateral basis has provided US$20 million in
assistance. The Federal Republic of Germany has indicated its intention to
cofinance SAL II with DM15 million. The Honduran Government is engaged in
discussions with the Government of Japan to determine its interest in
cofinancing this proposed credit in an amount equivalent to US$20 million.
US$5 million in additional balance of payments support to Honduras has
already been approved by the Government of Japan.
C. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
56.      The proposed credit would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports
by the public and private sectors. Ineligible goods comprise goods
financed by other multilateral and bilateral sources, luxury goods and
goods intended for military use. Since the proposed credit is a supplement
to the first tranche of SAL II, retroactive financing of up to the full
credit amount of SDR 14.3 million will be provided for expenditures
incurred after September 15, 1990, i.e., four months prior to the expected
date of signature of the Development Credit Agreement.
57.      Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the
Association's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts of the public and private
sectors estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent will be
procured through simplified ICB procedures similar to those provided for
under SAL II. However, as the result of the positive findings of a
recently completed Country Procurement Assessment, contracts of the private
sector, valued at less than US$5 million, while following established
procurement practices which are satisfactory to the IDA, would not any
longer require quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign
countries. The SAL II Loan Agreement would be amended accordingly, to
become consistent with the SAC. Contracts of the public sector, valued at
less than US$5 million, would be procured following Government procurement
practices acceptable to the Bank. The Central Bank will be responsible for
the collection of relevant documentation and for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications under the loan. Disbursements against contracts
valued at less than US$5 million equivalent would be made on the basis of a
Statement of Expenditures to be submitted by the Central Bank, with
detailed documentation being retained by the Central Bank for review by the
Bank as required. For auditing purposes, a separate account would be kept
by the Central Bank for all expenditures made under the credit. The
account and statements of expenditure would be audited by independent
auditors and the audit report would be submitted to the Association no
later than four months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.



- 17 -
D. Risks
58.      Implementation of the program has been substantially on track and
aonduras' growth prospects are favorable in the medium and long term.
Nevertheless, there are a number of risks. First, the economy is still
vulnerable to external shocks. Further rises in petroleum prices,
increases in the debt-service burden from rising interest rates,
devaluation of the US dollar vis-a-vis other major currencies, or drops in
the prices of coffee or bananas could render the external accounts very
difficult to manage and erase the gains obtained under the program.
Second, popular pressure for relief under continued austerity policies may
result in policy backsliding by the Government. Third, the level and
timeliness of external capital flows may fall short of what is required to
maintain financial balance. The first two risks would be addressed through
the ongoing policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government and through
the careful sequencing of adjustment measures, which are designed to build
on and strengthen previous reforms both at the macroeconomic and related
sectoral levels. To minimize the third risk, the Bank will continue to
seek extensive cofinancing support for Bank Group operations. In this
regard the Bank chaired a Consultative Group meeting in Paris on December
5, 1990 to assist the Government in mobilizing additional external
financing in support of the adjustment program and for reforms and
investment in the social sectors.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 4, 1991



18
ANNEX I
HONDURAS - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROJECTIONS, 1991.
(US$ Million)
1991
Resource Balance                                 -15841
Trid. Balance                                   -176.9
Exports of Goods (FOB)                         1047.J
Imports of Goods (CIF)                        1224.2
NFS Balance                                       2J8.
Exports of NFS                                  170.9
Imports of NFS                                  147.1
Net Factor Income                                -209.8
Factor Receipts                                   16 2
Factor Payments                                 -805.6
(o/w) MLT Interest                            -197.0
Net Private Current Transfers                      a0.6
Current Account Balance                          -411.7
Official rants                                   70.0
Net Direct Investment                             50.0
Not MLT Flows                                    270.6
Disbursements                                 412.1
Amortization                                  -141.6
Net IMF Purchases                                 21.6
Change in Not Reserves(-=increase)                -75.0
Unidentified Sources                               74.1'



19
HONDURAS - PROJECTED FDNANCTNG REWIREWENTS, 1991.
(USS millon)
1991
I, Grose Financing Requirmnt.                    626.2
A. Current Account blance                      411.7
o/v ILT Interet                           197.0
B. Amortization Paymnt.                        141.6
C. Butidup of Rererve.                          7.0
II. Sourc                                        626.2
A. Official Grants                              70.0
S. Not Otrect Investent                         50.0
C. Pubilc MLT Dibursement                      438.7
1. World Bank aroup                        123.8
2. toB                                     125.8
S. IMF Nab Flow                             21.6
4. BIlateral                                95.9
S. Other LT PIT                             77.6
0. Other Source  1/                              0.4
E. Unidentilied Financing                       74.1
1/ Includes not Short Term, errors A oetesiono and refinancing.



20                                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 9
.O60O4 - NATIOML AQ=MU
4%   e  apt  WinUO            0                                                                                                     Atteca@lIm  As
Md.-1960 Pepuiloic. (ElIle.)  8.0                                                                                                   (Page 1 of 9)
...........  -  -----lel                                                           ...Pejc9-
(A. I of ~e.4"nf *OF)     197"    197    IWO       1954    1955    19W6    1957    19W      1969    low     1,191    it"     19"    199   IWo"
Ore.. Da.9ic P..oduct *.v.   199.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    00.   100.0   10.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   190.0  1M-.  100.0
Not I.ircat Taxes          10.1     9.5    10.6    10.9    19.0    10.9    11.6    11.4    11.6   211.4    11.4    11.4    11.4    11.4   11.4
Agriculturet (Itn. .hd.io)    9.7    96.9    94.1    91.4    90.9    91.2    90.0    19.6    19.6    90.6    21.4   911.9    21.8    96.0   28.0
Industry           ~18.5    90.9    90.6    91.1    20.0    90.51   19.7    90.4    90.9    91.6    91.5       1.7?    1. 21 ? S.6   91.6
Sorvtoos           ~41.5    48.1    44.7    4654   47.1    47.6    46.7    48.7    46.0    46.9    46.4    48.0    44.6    44.0   44.0
N..cwc. Sal....             .4.5   .9.0    .7.6    40.6    -4.6    .1.4   .9.9    -2.7    -.9.         .4.9    -.4.    4.2      0.6     8.6    4.3
1porto of @POS             99.     80.7    67.1    96.5    98.8    96.6    96.4    99.9    99.4    44.9    49.1    61.6    81.9    58.7  86.61
I.eo#t of @N10             66.7    89.7    44.6   18.1    80.4    981.01   98.6   911.4,   18.21   49.6    66.6    64.7    61.4    60.91  62.0
Toul uxpe,ditur.             .106.    109.0   107.1   100.6   104.6   101.4   10.0.   109.7   109.6   104.9   10.9   195.2    99.6    95.4  915.7
TOW~ Cowaublc.             64.6    90.0    69.7    67.7    66.8    57.2    6611.9    69.6    69.9    69.4    69.4    66.04   82.1    77.7  74.6
Private Genwauiptc       79.6    77.7    69.4    78.0    711.6    70.9    71.8    79.7    79.6    78.611   70.     79.6    69.9    66.6   69.6
PutiUe Cc.nwupbice       12.0   12.4   138.    14.7    14.9    17.1    16.9    16.5    16.0    18.6    16.4    18.1    19.91   12.4   11.7
Grove 0000s.l, Investmet    91.9    19.0    94.6    19.0    16.0    14.9    14.7    16.1t   129.    18.8    16.0    17.9   317.8    28.6   91.9
Fi a" Isw.steent         10.4    91.9    94.8    19.6    17.9    14.8    12.7    12.0    16.1    18.6    164.6    17.9    17.0    16.6   91.9
Chnlc In Slaock.          9.6    -.9.     0.6    40.9      0.9    -0.9     9.0      0.8   4.09      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
Oeoss Docactic Sevini        16.4    10.0    17.6    19.8    18.6    19.6    11.6    10.4   10.1    10.6    10.6    14.0    17.9    99.6  98.61
NO Factor Zboom            -.6.    -9.6    -6.0    .5.6    45.4    -6.7    45.6      4.4    .4.4   .10.6   .11.7   -11.1   .10.1    -6.7  -6.6
Ne C GuErt T,.twf.e.        0.4     0.4     0.8     0.6      0.4     0.8     0.4     0.4     0.4      1.1     1.9     1.6     1.8      1.8,   1.4
Crops NUtinI Saving          12.8     7.6    11.5     7.1     6.4      6.6     6.6     8.4     6.1      1.1     0.9     4.9     9.0    18.0  90.1.
Actual                                      Pro.                  ,Jse
6. Natonal Aceount. Oe.atl
(Can46en Prig".)         70.75   76.40    1960    1964    19W8    1966    1957    1966    169    S4190    191    1969    1995    1996   1995
GOm"te agtic, Product a.O.    6.7     7.8     1.6     9.6     8.6      9.6     8.9    *4.7     1.1    48.6      1.6     8.0     8.5     4.9    8.0
Not lOdirget Taxes          8.1     9.0    99.7      0.6    14.1    49.6    10.      6.0     2.0    43.6      1.8     1.0     8.6     4.2    8.0
Aori.ultmr.                 0.0     6.1    -1.7     9.0      9.9     1.7     9.7     1.9     9.3      9.0     4.6     8.5     6.0     4.9   5.0
Ind.*tvy                    6.4     6.1    46.1     8.4   .1.8       6.4     S.0     7.6     8.1      1.0     9.8     9.8     8.6     4.9    6.0
Servic.a                    8.4     7.8     9.7     0.4      8.6     4.9    .6.      8.6      1.S   -6.9    40.6      2.1     0.8     4.2    8.0
E.Poee of am0               8.2     6.4    45.8     1.6      2.7     4.4     0.9    43.8     6.8      8.4     4.8     8.9     5.7     8.9    6.1
b.oet, Of am'               1.8    10.0     8.6    16.6     0.4    -1.7      9.6     1.8     7.7   .7.4       9.7     4.2     4.0     4.7    5.4
Total Epw,dI&cv.a             9.6     6.7     4.0     7.9     9.7      0.6     6.9     6.0     9.6   -6.4  *1.0         2.7     8.0     8.9    4.7
7.0.1 Ccnmgpoticn           1.8     7.7     6.8      1.8     8.7     4.7     8.9     6.1     9.9    46.6    .0.1      92  9.9         8. 32    4.2
Pelvet. cong.o;con        8.1     7.5     7.9      1.1     8.8     1.6     6.6     9.6      4.9    40.5    .0.2     9.8    81.11    8.4    4.4
Pubilie Cagwuk.tic.       4.8     6.7    10.8      8.7     8.8    19.8     8.1     9.9    -.0.  .16.7       0.8     0.6      1.5    2.8    8.0
grce. Dosmetl bIvoetamat    1.1    12.2   -4.9    41.1   .0.7   -18.8        7.6    -6.0     0.6   .10.7      9.4     6.1     4.1     7.6    7.7
Fixed Invel.et.nt,        8.6     0.7     9.9    19.6   .9.7   -18.6   -6.6        6.9      4.8  .19.1    91.41    6.1      4.1     7.6    7.7
Capacity to Import          .0.1    11.7    43.9      6.6     7.8    10.0    43.6      8.8     8.0  .90.0   .10.9    91.9    27.81   18.8   6.8
Torm. of Tradle Adjustment   17.6   .10.0   -90.6   .10.8   -16.1I  -190.0    228      4.6     9.6  4044.4    69.7   410.6   -66.41 44.1  .9.6
0.... cmetic liwo.            2.61    9.1     9.0     4.2     6.1      4.5     4.1     4.6     1.4   .9.4   -1.9        6.0     6.1     6.2    4.0
Ce.." National tncam.         9.9     5.4     1.6     4.0     4.7      1.7     8.6     4.9     1.6   .19.0    45.8      6.0     9.8     7.8    8.9
Ce... lbticn. Prcd.at (ox.    4.0     6.6     0.7     9.8     8.1      1.1     6.8     4.9     9.8  .16.2   .4.1        2.8     S.6     4.9   6.1
ato.. 0ca.wtbc Saving         7.0     1.9   -18.9     7.6     8.1    .4.1      9.9    4.12   -4.8    14.5    184.811    6.1     7.5     9.6    6.9
U"t Factor iao".           40.8    129.    18.4     6.9    12.7    84.9  -18.6    18.6  .10.4   168.&    17.4         6.4     9.6     0.6  -2.4
Net Current Trandfer         -       -     43.6     8.9    16.8      1.1    90.4     4.6    14.6   M9.5    14.1    17.8   114.0,    9.9    6.6
Oge.e I 4lona Savlog          9.6    S.S,  .964  .4           0.7   .18.6    10.1    45.1      8.1  -118.1    72.1   -f1.7   -74.2   184.9  10.0



21                                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
NaM   - NATIONAL ACCOIM   toetinued]
...... ~~~~~~~~'~~~~~                                                ~     Attachment la
(Page 2 of a)
AOtIual                                         Oroth Rate. s p.O.
C. Price Indices (1280.100)t          1280    198.4    1O98    1286    1987    10       199            70-75   7840   80-8    0542
Conur Prices (In 04)                 100.0   185.2   139.7   14.0   149.4   286.8   171.0                 0.4     9.8     8.2     4.2
Inplcit M0P  elstor                  100.0  124.4   180.2  1U7.8   140.2   149.8   161.0                 0.8      9.7     8.4     4.8
I.plleit Expenditures S.filttr       100.0   180.8  u14.0   140.8   145.8   140.8   16O.?'               7.7      0.0     0.2     8.6
0. Other indletor.a        70-75   78-0    80-8   8090   2-98                                           1270    127S    1900    1960
Growth fotte  (v p.O.):                                                             Share of Labor
Population (IfS Wa)         8.2      8.8     8.8     2.0      2.8                 -------0-
Labor Force                 2.4      2.0     2.e      --       -                    Agricultur*        08.81    0.0   88.8es   8as.
Groes Nat'l. Incom p.c.    0.8    -4.4      0.0      S.8   -8.1                    Industry           18.41   14.21   17.01   17.21
Privteo Conmptlon p.c.      0.1   -4.0    -1.2    -0.2        0.7                   Servieo            238.16   28.2s   27.2S   28.81
Imprt Elastcityl                                                                      Tota l            100.01  100.0   100.011  100.05
Impor  (**NFS) / QP(mp)     o.s      1.4    -0.0      1.7     1.2
Obarinal savings; Rates:
O1n art. SW                80.7      4.?    -0.2    72.2    80.2
0o6 wrt. WY                48.6    15.0    14.2   107.0    82.7
ICOR (lasged):                1.0     6.8    -1.0      8.0     8.4
Actual                          Pro.                 Projewd
E. Hationol Aceouta.                                            -           
(1280 sn. Lm"ira)         1200    1284    1265    1200    1927    128        198     1290    1291    1992    1298    122S    1228
Oroes Dometic Product *.P.   8.088    .194    .8370   8,Se   8.615   6,091   0.221   8,204   0,074   6,286   0,478   7,017   0,084
Mat Indiret Taxee           88       s60     040      610     572     622     707       00             711      730     797      918
Agriculture                i,in    1,22    1.84   1,835    1.828   1.419   1,482   1,401   1.947   1,682   1,730   1,920   2,204
Industry                  1,047   1,064   1,081   1.11 6 1.2    1,23    1,274  1I.S7   1.810   1,882   1,890   1,8O    1,7I8
(of which Manufacturing)    607     7a8      728     747      02      691      --       -       -       -        -               -
ServiC"                   2,274   2,2      2.347   2,444   2,407   2,744   2,768   2,8s7   2,818   2.861   2,610   2,721   8.208
Resoure Oslance              (870)   (C7)    (85)    6a          87      so      57     98       844     ea       442     540     724
Exports of @NS             1,866  1s,05   l.948   2,0a0   2.0e8   2,100   2,248   2,818   2.422   2,547   2,062    8,017   8,617
Imports a? ONFs           2.2a8  i17    1,090   1,247   1,299   2,029   2,135   2,028   2,078   2,164   2,280   2,409   2,922
Total Expenditures          8,488   t,271   5,418   S,44S   8,770   6,011   6,164   5,609   S,780   8,678   6,068   6.409   7,829
Total Consuptlen          4,210   4,201   4,850   4,s54    4,811   5.092   5,240   4.868   4,827   4,216   5,087   S,801   5,616
Private Consumption      8,852   8.497   8,609   8,601   8.S99   4,142   4,240   8090   8,728   8,716 8      ,79   8,742   8,924
Osnerul _overnmsnt         68n    704      742  eeS         912     940   1,000      967   1,104   1,200   1,800   1,582   1,692
Cross Dometic Investment   1,248   1,070   1,S02     900      907     219     924      828     902     987      990   1,109   1,514
Fix d Investmet          1,28S   1,081   1,082      909     049     902      940     027     208      989     98   1,171   1,517
ChanesainStoa               iS     (12)     10       (9)   1u6       1s      (10)     (2)     (2)      (2)     (2)     (8)      (8)
Capacity to Imort           1,660   1,86o   1,664   1,681   1,762   1,044   1,946   1.624   1,045   2,086   2,278   2,044   8,181
Term of Trade Adjustment        0    (2)    (2         (172)   (254)   (25)   (297)   (494)   (876)   (511)   (419)   (878)   (486)
Gross Domestic Incoe"       5,06    4,607   8,110   5.50   5,801   s,025   5,024   5,420   8,498   5,748   6.056   6.044   ?,868
Cros National Ineom         4,701   4,869   4,760   4.890   5,172   5,884   5,82B   4,861   4,172   4,W85   4,600   5,160   6,212
Cro" National Product       4,781   4,696   8,042   6,070   8.425   8,049   5,025   4,658   4,748   4,40   5,025   8,888   6,698
Cro" Domstic Saving           070      666     700     604      780     784    0S4       062     070     629   1,019   1,844   1,783
Net Factor Inco..          (8O7)   (298)   (886)   (481)   (389)   (442)   (896) (1,129) (1,8O2)  (1,410) (1,480) (1.484) (1,886)
Net Current Transfers        18       16      18      l       22      28      27       80     102      120     187     167     201
Oros Notional Saving          S10      884     440     872      804     816     818    (418)   (8S8)   (461)   (294)       27     898



22                                    ANNEX III
Page 3 of 9
-S - uL 7240
---- - ----------                              ~~~~~~~~~Attachasib lb
-^- - -- -- -- -- _- - - -- -- - -- - - - --         - - -  w_- - -- - -       __         _
Actual                          Pro.                 Projected
-_ ~~~-----^-_----*----------v_ _ - _-- -_ -t    
A, Volume, Volue and Price*   19      1984    1968    1o       1967    1988    1989    1o9      1991    199      199     1995    19S
-- - --- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- - --  - - - -- -- _- -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - -_- - --  - -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -  .- -- -- - -- - . ... . ..... - -- -- --
Merchandl .e, Eaorts
---- -._-------   -       -.._.I------------------------Volum  Ind* 190100------ -                     ---- -                 --
Banana                     100.0    86.9    98.1    80.7   104.2    98.8    94.9    9.6   908.2   108.1   106.8   M.4   140.2
Coffee                     100.0   119.6   126.0   140.0   158.4   168.8   180.1   168.1   170.1   175.2   181.8   198.7   220.2
Sugar                      100.0   110.0   148.4    77.s   117.8    64.S    2S.8    28.0    28.8   2s.2   2s.6    61.0    85.6
Beef                      100.0    88.8    80.2    88.0    88.6    84.6    80.8    48.9    46.8    49.8    82.6   60.4    74.0
Lumber                     100.0   68.9    79.2    81.7    64.5    67.1    83.8    48.7    46.0    48.2    80.2    84.8    61.0
Shrimp 4 Lobster           10O.0   120.8   106.1   108.8   187.5   18.8   W.6   166.4   197.8   209.7   22.4   986.1   816.2
Total Mroch. Eaporta FOS    100.0    98.S    97.1   100.4   10.6   l0.8   109.9   18.1   116.8   124.2   181.0   146O   .    176.1
----------------- -----Valu,-Curront Price. (Hilion  -)-------------
Banana                      226      932     274    287       82      a"      848a    826      887     870      406     491     624
Coffee                      204      169     168     X22      20      12      191      lea     204     242      278    s8       4E0
Sugar                        22       26      21      18       19      14      1o       12      16      t1       15      1S      10
B"t                          61t     21       1       20       28      20      19       26      29      81      a8        1      72
Lumber                       a6       85      84      82      8S       80      28       21      2a      25       27      #2      39
Other Exports               292      264     287     240      247     291     S78      898     489     474      810     624     ea8
Total March. Euporta FM     6O       787     790     6o9      644     698     987      946   1047   1.187   1.209  1.86    2.12
Nerchandla. lmport-          ------------------------------Volume Index 19$0100-                    -------------------
Non Durable Conaunr Good-  100.0    67.1   108.2    67.2   1OS.a   108.8   108.8    98.5    96.6    99.8   108.0   110.7   125.4
Ourabl- Conaumer Gooda     100.0    8.S6   77.8    88.1    94.2    94.2    94.2    67.1    88.1    90.8    98.9   100.2   111.9
Petroleum and Lubricants   100.0    92.8    88.s    68.2    88.0      8.0   586.0    80.8    80.9    84.0    88.8    60.5    69.5
Intermedlato end Oth-re   100.0    90.8    90.6    97.8    98.8    98.8    95.3    90.6    91.7    98.8    "9. ;   107.9   128.9
Capital Goode              100.0    89.1    87.8    88.1    71.7    71.7    71.7    64.0    70.1    74.8    77.8    90.7   117.5
Total March. Import CIf    100.0    61.8    87.7    8B.6    98.0    98.0    98.0    90.8    92.8    OB.6   100.7   110.6   129.9
======---       ~~~----------- Velue- Curr*nt Prices (Hi II io 6 )-              - - - - -
Non Ourable Conwmr Goode    182      t29     141      152     142     184     186      198     218     2J0      252     802     a87
Durable Consumer Goods       76       70      67      e8       67      89      91       90      99      108     106     119     18O
Petroleum end Lubricant.    141      180     164      97      119     118     14S      IS7     198    1t4       149     158     216
Intormdlate, and Other      400      S44     888     870      848     880     42S      429     474     497      U8i     M8      7S4
Capital Ooode               270    t11       1t1      178     206     209     212      202     240     266      267     881     46t
Total MIrch. Imparta CIF    1.019    86      68       68      S9      947   1.081  1t0685   1224   1.272   1.292   1.802   2.017
Conversion Factor CIF/FOB    1.07    1.01    1.01    1.00    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11
Terme of Trade Indic      ---------------------------Price Indlc, (1980d100)----------------
Merchandle. Export.       100.0    92.9    98.6   101.4    98.2   101.7   108.4    98.4   104.1   109.6   118.9   1128.6    41.9
Merchandsee Import.        100.0   107.1    99.4    99.2    89.9    94.6   108.2   117.8   129.4   129.0          )   138.2   182.8
Merchandise Teree of Trade  100.0    85.7    98.2   102.2   108.7   107.8   100.     86.8    60.5    66.0    90.      94.8    98.2
B. As S of Total (current prie.)                            C.Growth Rates (I)(oonetnt prIe.)
Merchandise ENport.          1970    1978    1980    1984    1968    1996    199               70-78   7-60   80-66   e8-93   98-9
Banana                     41.1    19.9    26.8    81.8    a8.7    82.0    29.4              -18.2    16.9    -0.2      1.9     5.3
Coffee                      14.1    18.4    24.0    22.9    21.5    21.7    22.6             1t.8      6.2      8.7     6.8     4.0
Suvr                        0.7      2.2     8.4     8.8      1.6     1.2     0,7              0.8    82.2    -2.1   -18.6      2.8
Bef                         8.8      5.9     7.1     2.9      2.8     2.9     8.4              6.8    11.8   -12.4      6.7     7.0
Lusber                      8.8    12.4      4.8     4.7      S.8     2.1     1.9              4.S   -10.0    -4.9   -4.7       4.0
other Export.              80.1    41.2    84.8    84.8    82.6    40.2    42.0                 -       -       8.1     5.6     7.0
Total March. Exports FOB    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              2.8      6.7     0.4     4.9     6.1
Merchandlee Irmp rt
Non Durcble Consumer Oood    18.68   14.7    18.0    14.4    16.8    19.8    19.2              2.0    10.8      0.4    -0.1     4.0
Durable Conaumer Good*     12.2      6.6     7.4     7.8      9.4     8.2     7.4             -8.0    16.8    -0.7    -0.1      5.6
Petroleum and Lubricants    5.6    14.7    18.9    20.1    12.1    11.8    11.7               -2.0   -4.8    -6.6    -0.6       4.5
Interuediate *nd Others    40.9    89.2    89.2    886.    40.1    40.1    87.9               -0.4    18.2    -0.6      0.9     4.5
Capital Gooda               28.8    24.8    26.8    19.1    22.1      0.7   28.6               5.7    11.1    -4.1      1.5     8.7
Total March. Iqwort* CIF    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              0.5    10.4   -0.2       0.8     5.2



23                                         ANNEX III
Page 4 of 9
HDW4Ai - 9ALANCE OF PATh8NTS
(UN   i 1iIona)                                              Attehmnt to
Actual                            Pre.                  Projected
SALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1980    194      1985    1vU       1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    199s    1995s   198
A.  Exporte of God A NFS         42      847     903    1009   O70    1,019    1,098    1,097    1,218    1.341    1,485   1,802   2,436
1. Mrchandie (FOB)            880     787      790      891      844      8n9     967      948   1,047    1.157    1.269    1.6s    2,225
2. Non-Factor Servie.          91      110     114      1181e      6      126      1       151      171      184      196     234      811
S.  Imorts of Goo" A NFs   1,127   1.086   1.048    1,02    1,088    1,1S?    1,230   1,217    1,871    1.426    1,450   1,682   2,250
2. Nerchandise (FO8)          9s4      6s8     879      874      894      914     998      902    1,106    1,151   1,169    1,89    1.825
3. Non-Factor Service         178       8      184      18       194      223     234      235      2es      274     281      323      424
C.  Resource Belanc.           (185)   (219)   (189)      (58)   (118)   (118)   (185)   (120)   (153)    (84)          1s      119      18
D.  Net Factor Income          (152)   (178)   (190)   (253)   (238)   (240)   (214)   (260)   (289)   (289)    (286)   (291)   (294)
1. Factor Reclpt               28      18       1S       1s       12       1o      11       1S       16      25       28       81       37
2. Factor Pyment.             178      104     20       26       250      250     225      275      80e      818     814      822      832
(interest payments) 1/     120      190     142      157      171      178     1S0      198      219      225     227      280      228
E.  Not Current Transfers         8       10      12       18       18       1s      20       28       S1      84       87       45       6o
F.  Current A1count Balance   (829)   (387)   (887)   (292)   (840)   (341)   (829)   (852)   (412)   (839)   (234)   (126)    (48)
0.  Lang-Term Capital Infl     272    S8l        8s5      176      194      825     269      328      485      889     240      140       87
1. Dlroet Inveatment            6      20       28       s0       89      47       87       60       SO      45       40       40       45
2. Official Capitol Qrant      14       70    1i8       145      Il      118      52      17S       70       70      70       70       70
8. Not LT Loan                256      136     266      112       el      104     (41)    210       271      214      45       17      (70)
a. Diubursemmnte           845      270     847      217      250      307     138      84       412      865      194     14       182
b. Repayento                s8       84      82      105      189      208     194      12       142      151      149     187      251
4. Other LT Inflows 2/         (S)      as      (78)   (111)    (41)      s7      220    (122)       74       60      8s       18       22
H.  Tobal Other Item (net)    (20)       S7       (2)    129       194      64       86       10        0       9        4       20       32
1. Net Short Term Capital      20      47       (0)      98      151       0        0       10        0       9        4       28       82
2. CAFNE                       19       14       (8)      0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
3. erora end aOealions        (60)    (25)       8       81       43       64      8s        0        0        0       0        0        0
I.  Change in Not Resrves        78       19     (14)    (18)    (46)    (49)        25       19      (a3)    (56)    (10)    (84)    (50)
EO  Indicates increse]
1. Not Credt from VI          1i      (11)      (2)    (8)       (80)     (88)     (0)      19       22      15        0       (9)    (11)
Shares of CDP (current USN) 
1. Reaurce iblanc              -7.8t    -6.31    -4.55    -1.45   -2.91    -2.71i   -2.81   -4.95   -e.211  -a..2i    0.51       8.61    4.811
2. iLT Interest Paymnts         s.31    2.75    2.91s    .01    2.81    2.95    o.9"        6.81    7.61     7.41     6.9s    5.9s    4.51
8. Current Account Balance    -18.06  -12.011  -9.61   -7.71   -s.4s   -7.6S    -6.71  -14.45  -18.61  -13.011         si 8.81   -.s1   -1.11
4. LT CapitAl Iflow (lIn* C    10.71    10.81    10.13    4.61    4.S1     7.81    5.51    18.21   18.71    14.91    s.8s       4.2S1    1.8
5. Net Credit fram the IW       0.61   -0.31   -0.13   -0.91   -0.71    -0.81   -0.01        0.811    o 0.95    0.6x    0.01   -0.8i    -0.3s
Foreign ftehange ea:rves:
1. Int'l. Raarvee (IFS Ild)   149.6   126.2   108.8   111.8   106.0    50.0    21.1          2.0    85.4   118.7   123.9   192.1   882.8
2. Cold (End-yr L- ndon Price   9.4     4.9      5.2      6.8      7.8     0.6      6.4      6.0      6.0      8.0     0.0      6.0      6.0
8. are" eeervee               159.3   138.1   111.0   117.6   118.8    86.6    27.5          8.0    61.4   119.7   129.9   198.1   888.8
4. Not Re.. In Months IlPJrt    1.6      1.4     1.2      1.8      1.2     0.5      0.2      0.0     0.5       1.0     1.0      1.4      1.8
Exchane Ratee (Q/U6$):
1. Nam. Off. X-te (IVS s)    2.0        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      5.0     5.8      8.2      6.4      8.8     6.9
2. Rel Eif. X-Rat (1980410  100.0   182.0   188.0   180.0   128.1   122.2   180.5   266.8   290.8   288.2   274.8   268.8   263.8
S. KX-Rte for GDP Conversion    2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      5.0      5.8     8.2      6.4      6.8      6.9
Memorandum Item:
GDP (UN Mi II ton)           2,544   8.231   3,504   3,798   4.064   4,457   4,e85   2,444   2.480   2,o06   2,8S2   8,854   4.829
1/ On accrual basis (Includee INT *rrears)
2/ Include rfinancing, debt service arrears and unidentified sources.



24                                        ANNEX III
Page 5 of 9
508A  - i(ML CAPfTAL  NU 068
------------------------ -                                       Attachent 14
(Ut Ml II ions)                                          (Pao I os 2)
_ ~~~~~~~~- -- _- --- -- -- -- - -- --- - -- -  - - - --        -   - -- - - -__- - - - -- -  - -- - --  -  - - - "- - - - - -- - -- -  - - - - --- - 
Acual                           P".                  Projected
- ..... - -                                    - -                    -- - --  - - - - - -- -- -- - -- - -            _.
A. Dicbur.ea.nt.             1980    1954    lw       1986    190     198l    190     1990    1991    199      19      199      19
1. Public & P.Guar. Li      268.9   26s.2   188.6   199.1   236.0   289.9   12.8   405.9   4s6.2   424.6   279.6   196.7  200.2
Official Creditor.     185.9   248.8   264.8   15.9   211.0   278.4   116.5   86.6   477.6   417.9   274.7   196.7   206.2
Multilateral 1/       112.7   160.6   160.6    76.1    85.0   138.5    68.1   191.2   807.6   278.9   119.8   127.6   114.7
of which ISb         24.4    60.5    44.7    82.s    25.1    82.5      1.6    64.0    91.8    47.1    11.6    18.0   14.6
of uhIch MA          17.7     1.1     0.7     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    82.0    41.0      7.0     0.0     0.0
91*teral 2/          43.2    85.8   1.8    77.8   186.O   144.9    68.4   205.4   170.0   142.0   15.2    89.1    88.8
Private Creditor       106.0    19.0    51.5    48.2    25.0    11.8    16.8       9.8     6.6     8.7     4.9      0.0     0.0
Supplier.             60.2      8.8     7.1    81.4    22.8      8.0    14.0     7.4     7.8     8.0      4.0     0.0     0.0
Financial Market,     47.8    18.6    44.2    11.8      2.4     6.5      2.8     1.9    1.1      0.3      0.9     0.0     0.0
2. Privato Non-uar. LT       u1.8     8.8    11.9   1V4       14.2    17.4    20.1     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
8. Total LT Disbureewante   845.2   269.7   847.8   216.6   280.2   807.8   182.9   405.0   486.2   424.6   279.6   196.7   208.2
4. IM4 Purchases             29.1     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    29.7    26.0    18.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
S. Not Short-Term Capitol     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    10.0     0.4      0.7     8.9    20.0    81.6
6. Total incl. IW   Nat ST   874.8   289.7   847.8   216.6   250.2   807.8   182.9   448.6   809.6   448.8   288.8   216.0   284.6
b Repayment.
1. Public a  P.Ouar. LT      89.2    47.4    86.9   78.2   148.0   150.0    87.7   108.8   126.6   139.7  1a8.2   S8O.7   249.7
Official Creditors      22.8    82.4    84.8   s5.6    69.0   181.1    68.7    8S.9   108.1   122.5   126.8   180.7   228.0
multilateral l/       20.8    24.6    85.1    39.9    42.8    85.0    22.8    74.0    99.2   116.8   120.8   126.8   140.0
of which 1i89         4.1    10.8    12.5    21.0    25.4    85.0      0.1    s9.0    41.0    42.4    44.1    82.0   s8.2
of which IA          0.2      0.8     0.6     0.7     0.7      0.9     0.0     1.2     1.4      1.4     1.4    1.6      2.0
Bilateral 2/           2.8      7.6    19.4    18.9    4e.7    6e.1    40.9      9.9     8.9     5.9     8.0    24.4    02.2
Pr Ivte Creditorp       10.6    18.0    12.4    17.4    88.0    18.9      4.0    21.9    21.8    18.8    11.9       9.9    10.8
Suppl Itr              2.8      9.4     8.0     7.6     7.2     6.8      8.0    21.9    21.8    18.8    11.9      7.6     8.2
Financlal Market.     14.8      8.8     0.4     9.8    4S.8    12.8      1.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      2.4     7.6
2. Private Non-Cuar. LT      48.8    *.1    18.8    26.8    24.8    26.0       7.6    19.0    18.0    12.0    11.0      6.0     0.0
3. Total LT Repayment,       67.8   as.s    02.2   108.0   169.8   176.0    78.5  124.8   141.6   180.7   149.2   168.7   249.7
4. IW  Repurew.               0.0     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4    10.8      1.4     0.0     0.0     0.8    11.S
C. Interet
1. Pubt Ic  P.Guar. LT     s6.0    78.0    92.8   107.8   07.8   121.9    42.8   19.2   102.0   109.7   192.7   196.7   198.8
Official Credtore       81.8    80.6    62.8    86.1    78.8   109.8   88.8   142.0   168.4   178.0   179.1   0is.1   185.7
Multilateral 1/       24.8    85.8    45.9   6O.e    e0.6    85.8    21.5    97.5   108.4   109.9   109.2   104.6    97.8
of which IIIRD       12.4    20.9    21.9    85.2    85.8    44.2      0.6    45.8    80.8    82.8    81.2    45.0   85.7
of which IDA          0.4     0.0     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.0     0.0     0.8     0.7      1.0     1.2     1.2     1.2
Di lateral 2/          6.8    18.5    16.4    19.8    12.9    24.2    17.0    44.8    01.0    68.1    89.9    80.8    88.4
Private CredItors       27.8    27.2    80.8    21.2    14.0    12.4      4.0    17.8    16.1    14.6    18.0    11.8       7.8
suppli*e               0.9      8.2     6.8     6.8     8.8     8.8      1.8     9.8     6.2     7.0     6.0      4.6     8.1
Financial Market.     26.6    22.0    28.9    14.4    10.8      9.1     2.7      7.0     7.9     7.7     7.6      7.1     4.6
2. Private Non-Guar. LT      24.6    10.2     7.9     6.6      6.2     6.8     8.2     7.8     8.6      4.2     2.0     1.0     0.0
S. Total LT Interest         88.4    88.2   100.7   118.9    98.7   120.7    4S.7  1as.7   1is.s   195.9   194.7   197.7   198.8
4. IM Service Charee          0.0    11.1    10.8     9.7    8.8       4.8     0.a     8.9     7.0      6.8     9.2     6.8     8.8
S. Interest Paid on ST Debt    86.4    18.0    18.o   1a.0    27.0    25.0    28.0    22.4    21.9    21.8    20.9    22.0    26.8
6. Total Inc. IP I     Not ST   119.0   112.8   127.8   141.6  12.2   186.0    69.0   195.0   217.8   220.7   224.6   227.9   221.8
1/ Includes unidentified sources (1992-498)
2/ Includes refinancing, cofinancing and unidentified eources.



25                                        ANNEX III
Page 6 of 9
H    UCA  - EXTODL CAPITAL M  OEIIT
-- -----------                                 Attchment Id
(US1 Illiona)                                             (Pase 2 of 2)
Actua l                          Pro.                 Projected
0. external Debt (DOD)        1980    1q84    1985    1986    1su       1988    1989    1990  8"i    199           1998    1995    iN
1. Puble   P.Cuar. LT          974   1.774   2.140   2.878   2.701   2.7SS   2,828   8.078   3.42s    87099   SS0   8.998   8.950
official Creditor,        701   1.367   1872   1.86    2,189   2.876   2,866   2.029   2,992   8,287   8.486   8,594   8.578
Multilateral I/         4S?    s84   1.046   1,198   1,851   2.,as    1,471   16e6   1.798   1.986   1 ,985   1.986   1,66s
of which I            182      278     869      468     875      sao     828      872     62       627     8ss      5O      420
of which mA            64       61      e1       eI      80       79      7        78     109      148     184      161     145
Bilateral 2/            248      502     626      6T0    a88       9e       96   1.041   1,196   1,.82   1,481   1.687   1.S6
Private Cr.ditors         274     417      468      81s     512     47*      467     444      481     422      418     402      875
SupplIer.                80       96W    100      130     184      147     187      142     128      118     110       97      88
Financial market.       194      821     888      8SS     888      881     SOO     802      808     804      80o    S0       292
2. Private Non-Quar. LT        191     162      141     128      118     100       84      es       sO      8e      27       11       6
S. Total Long-Tere OD        1,168   1,938   2,282   2,808   2.818   2,886   2,907  8s,18    8,478   8,747   8,87?   4,007   8.986
4. IW Cr.dIt                    83     1s0      147     110       77      87       as      88       76      91       91      76      42
S. Short-Torm Debt             272     267      289     214      176     2"4      280     219      219     228      282     269      860
6. Total ncl. IWP A Not ST   1,470   2,882   2,688   2.827   8.069   8.136   8.172   8,412   8,769   4.066   4,200   4.882   4.889
7. Accusulated Arreare         n.e.  188.7   264.4   258.4  S6.4   418.1   688.2          -        -       -       --       --      -
A. Interet                   n.e.   2e.7    42.7    67.7   102.7   188.2   288.0         -        -       --       --      -
B. Amortizatlon              n.e.  187.0   181.7   200.7   288.7   279.9   898.2         -        -
Shar of Public LT DOD:
1. On Conceaionel Terms       88.8    42.91   41.81   40.S   40.83   42.61   42.41        -                -       --       -       --
2. With Variable Int. Rate    21.81   17.8#1  1S.0    18.11   18.23   18.6S   19.81        -        -       --      -        --      -
E. Bank end mA Ratio.
1. I   to totl L DOD (lIne    18.11   14.11   18.23   18.61   20.43   18.83   18.11   18.23   17.93   16.73   18.81   14.23   18.23
2. MA to total LT OOD (lne     8.831   4.23    8.61    8.23    2.8s      2.81    2.73    2.81    8.13    4.01    4.01    8.81    8.81
4.IBRD to tota l L DS (In.     9.75   1S.S    26.13   26.73   22.41   28.83    0.7n   29.4S1  27.711  27.          27.73   27.11   26.61
S.IDA to tot I LT OS (lIne 8    0.41    0.8S    0.73    0.63    0.81    0.83    0.03    0.63    o.81    0.73    0.7r        0.81   0.8
F. DOD-toExporte OAS
1. Long-Term Debt            120.43  224.81  248.81  244.91  26.81s  277.81  268.05  282.13  281.81  274.41  289.81  241.61  218.73
2  IMF Credit                  8.43   17.81   16.06   10.73    7.9       8.61    8.2S    4.9n    8.23    6.73    6.11s    .23    4.11
8. Short-Term Debt            28.1S   8o.s1   28.23   21.05   17.93   28.71   20.SS   19.7S   17.81   16.7    18.811  18.11   14.73
4. LT+1MF+ST DOD             181.91  272.81  292.73  276.83  812.81  804.83  267.06  806.73  808.81  297.83  281.41  281.91  287.81
C. DOD-to-current CODP
1. Long-Ter- Debt/CDP         45.85   89.91s  68.I    6s.ss   89.s3   64.1    59.811  128.41  140.01  148.83  187.4S  120.23  119.81
2 DIM  Credit/ODP              1.83    4.S    4.25    2.91    1.91    0i.8       0.73    2.23    8.13    8.53    8.23    2.83    2.81
3. Short-Trm DebtJ/OP         10.73    8.81    7.41    8.83    4.81    8.81    4.73    9.03    s.8         8.83    8.23    8.11    8.01
4. LT*1144T DQO/QDP           87.83   72.81   76.73   74.4$   78.85   70.41   64.95  189.61  181.91  186.0S   148.83  140.11  129.81
H. Debt Service/Evporta OM
1. PublIc A Cueranteed LT     10.11   14.81   17.41   18.01   28.73   26.43   1O.0S   28.83   26.01   24.11   22.23   20.81   19.81
2. Private Nan-nnr,nteod LT    7.6S    8.4.     2.ss    8.81    8.13    8.23      1.01    2.4S1   1.7      1.23    0.91    0.73    0.41
8. Total LT Debt Service      17.?S   19.01   19.91   21.41   26.83   29.61   11.0Q   26.23   26.73   28.23   28.05   21.01   19.91
4. Iw  Repurchaeeserv.Ch       0.01s   1.81   1.2S    1.01Q   0.61    0.1    0.11S   1.1    0.73    0.61   O6S    0.9S    o.9
S. Interest Only on ST Debt    s.As    1.55    1.73    1.83    2.7S    2.41    2.11    2.05    1.81    1.61    1.41    1.81    1.23
s. Total (LT*lMP.ST Int.)     21.43   22.73   22.93   24.23   80.11   S2.8S   18.11   29.73   20.21   27.45   28.11   28.23   22.05
I. Interest Burden Ratios
1. Total IntereWcurrent OD    4.73    8.8s1    8.1    8.73    8.13    8.61    1.4S    8.o0    s.8s         8.61    6.05    7.81    6.8s
2. Total Interest/Exports 0a   12.4S1  18.0S   13.91   18.95   12.95   18.43    6.23   17.81   17.811   1.43   18.11   18.73   12.4$
1/ Includes unidentified eource (1992-1998)
2/ Include. refinancing, cofinancing and unidentified ource.-



26                                      ANNEX III
Page 7 of 9
iRAOSM - FUO-C FINWCE
_________,____________----                                            Attacheint 1.
1. Canoolidated NF Public Sector              Actual                          Pr.                  Projeced
A. percent of Current COP:   1900    1984    1S68    1906    1967    19U     1909    1990    1991    1992    1998    199O    1990
A. Total Current Receipt.    22.9    25.6    26.5    25.8    26.8    26.0    28.7    26.0    o0.0    80.0    29.0    28.4    26.8
1. Tax Revenue              14.2    14.2    14.6    18.4    14.2    18.9    14.0    16.7    17.5    l6.?    16.8    15.9    18.9
2. Non-Tax Current Receipt.    8.7    11.4    11.7    11.9    12.4    12.1    1t.?   12.0    18.8    18.8    12.6    12.8    12.0
B. Total Current xpenditure   20.1    28.9    24.9    24.7    28.8    26.1    27.6    28.8    29.1    27.9    26.9    24.9    21.9
C. Current Budget Bllance     2.6     1.7     1.8     0.6      0.?    -0.1    -1.9     0.4      1.7     2.1     2.1     8.5      6.6
0. Capital Expenditures 1/   10.4    11.6     6.6      6.4     6.8     0.7     6.2     7.8      7.2     6.9     8.1     6.8     0.6
E. Net Lending (Inc.Cap.Rec.    1.8   1.8     1.0     0.7      1.1     0.6     1.1      -                    -           -
F. Overall Balane Financed    -9.1   -11.4   -6.1    -6.8   -4.0    -7.4    -9.2   -6.9    -5.8   -4.8    -4.0    -2.8    -2.0
1. Official Capital Orant.   0.1     1.9     1.6      1.7     1.8     1.8     0.7      1.0     0.6     0.6     0.5     0.4     0.8
2. Eaternal B9rroeing (net)    8.7   8.       8.6     2.8     2.7     8.0     8.4      4.6     4.9     8.7     2.9     1.7      1.0
8. Domatic Financing         8.2     1.0     0.8      1.9     2.6     2.8     8.1     0.8      0.0     0.8     0.6     0.7     0.7
4. CDP (mill. L.pir")       bO8.0   6.462   7.006   7.8,      .12   6s928   0,770  22.218  14.252  1S,61     10.0612  22.810  29.787
1/ Include. not lending and Is not of capital revenue. for the perlod 1990 - 190.



AMEX III
27                                  Page 8 of 9
SddAInScawrsofDeiopi. 1989
Hondur
US~~g              ag      (ee               i.mw      gM. 
CO= ~ ~~~~~~~~~~O
k4COIEAND POVERIT
b_r
041 puagils *'u... 1968)             USS           210       360      uo      1.        1270     20
"   z                                    z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -   a         -         ..
P4*4nds_ d.
to 2 A _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                           39 ___     
Absdn~.v_ _~                   uSse_              _        ..        a        _        _a.
mak_pw   SWfp  
PF   haepl:b                        * 1anp           a 6   - 9   a                 
tlLIII5 6i              113       178    176G     36.712    35496
Sbam~~L.ia                       Dp w mc 430.0        27.3     21.9      117t     16.0       2
.aXii             1        2,112    2        2704      2.%      2.9SO
p y  psrpinm                52       53        6g        v        80
%dGDP            _       17A      la.1                 a
A bo         s                 I       p                      .. ..I-
F    itubRlam                      %ofGDP                    3.3      2.3                 _         _
Fedt andpope                       %o=d P           _                   a        -         .        .-
kg of ad  iiu     111.3    203.5    191.9    9741      1863    1,427.7
~~~~~~~~tb VS~Ii                        _            a        -         a-         
_nospwt=d=mwmkwm                   SdGDp                     24        22        .
srp_  _; minh    1                          16   27   14
e              a        3    iJ                     .4 ..
pw> _  _                154                t11       16        9
INVUT!bWINSUMANC&MAL
Medkdlew                           siofDP                    7         6.4 
P.pdaim pu .                                                          4.7               14 47
b.q,adb8 
"ii                     *~~~~~~~lbtdwolfem          KO                10-ao  {s  l   10  10"
T : __1gS                        S*f-r                       SAO.4                                9P .  a
pq*pw.uadw35                  39        228                27
a  MS                          'a41  lgLo  s  I'?
NW     rW                         p                 14       32.1     568        .2     79.3      am
Swam W.W8nkBom1ik



ANNEX III
28                                     Page 9 of 9
soianocatrs of Devalopmm. 1969
Honduras
sawm vqio% I uem S        N
2540      15.20      _       1s        1    b~.
~~~~~q                     (  1)         W_
BONRESOA
Sk% ." grwh Urav 1-e Ipouidmt
T.i bd.Om1m                                           2jI         ~j             416 W         149  42J
51.3 t;  X  m     11    j6    57.4  602
f.P&    imwtdo                                        N                  ag4                 0.74      0.65
mcmime ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i68.8
mu~bw  -  1j  1104                       _
P~~~ma~~z,wabnw                          2.5       33~~~~~~S            .        2.2*      31.
U*auttwa1g.o~.wbaffh.mia1             fffftmm          3.1       3.1       4.0       3.7         5       3.8
Pjesudpapal 0  _b~uns  -.8264   516,308 -805,063   521,035
II~Z  peiha..t    s5        45.7     39.8      2.         315       24
tcmvacs v  p                                        7as.4                         3-         4.08     339
Ld 04/Wm (15-49) Vmiss
Rwthaualsp.                           104
~t~ m                            psrto..~vs1mas      ito       Ato ,4                        s&t       469
fzaIs -,Ws o        -U             5.5       5         661      692       618       67.2
TldkborfaM                                             7A8        9       1       146.446    2 2.336    1.56018
i c                183       26i       314       29.3
aa~~~~ki   -                 u~I   to         . 0 
Pamia* .omd11                          IQ6 -ag
* _   :~~~~~~~~~~Sa lobfa                     30fi7     29:      314       3t        39.0      302
2         88       LI        1L5      235        22.1
Sdao hysusd          : wn                               21                   _ -                 _l2-
=l^                                    -        3.                  ..
?ATtRALRESOURCU
Aresq.                                                 lt2       112       IJ2    20.396    17.083    20.337
tho. s. k                                                36        20
bae d                             %kmt-I"td3 1         31          5                 38.3      31.6
Dtou_        uam)                     =m    b          -1        -8        2         .5         .         4
Ace= to Saft No"                     *af                       410       40        T         ?6?       79.4
Popuatiowgrwh                                                            Prmy school enoment
4                                                                           3
o                                 0 _-b0*_ -I01
3M-  -I- LAM



29
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GfOUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
-------------------------------------------
A. STATEMENT OF 8ANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 80, 1090)
Amount In US$ million
(les caneel lotion)
Credit/         Fiscal                                                 -----------------------------------
Loan No.         Year        Borrower              Purpose               Bank        IDA       Undlsbursed
80 loans and 12 credits fully disbursed                                 517.60       85.00
Of which SECALs, SAL., and Program Loans a>
Ln. 2990-HDS    1989     Honduras          Structural Adjustment         50.00
Subtotal                                                            50.00
In. 2421-HDS     1984   Honduras           Water Supply                  19.60                      10.78
Ln. 2S88-HDS      1986   Honduras          Municipal Development          6.90                      4.89
_n. 2708-HDS     1986   Honduras           Industrial Credit             87.40                      4.28
Ln. 2804-DS      1907   Honduras           Primary Education              4.40                       8.68
Ln. 2991-HDS     1989   Honduras           Agricultural Credit           26.00                      18.69
3 Ln. 82S7-HDS b>  1991   Honduras           Structural Adjustment II      90.00                     90.00
Total                                                              700.90       865.00        126.72
Of which has been r  paId                                          192.41        7.41
Total now held by Dank and IDA                                     608.49       77.69
Amount Sold                4.46
Of which has been repaid:   4.46
Total undisbursd                                                   126.72                     126.72
______________________________________________
*> Approved after FY80.
b> This loan becae effective on November 14, 190.
* SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan



30                                 ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF OAW GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A. STATEMENT Of BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
---------------------------------------
(As of September 80, 1990)
Amount in aS6 milIton
(less cancellation)
Credit/         Fiscal                                                 --------------------
Loan No.         Year        Borrower              Purpose               Bank        IDA       Undiabureed
ao loans and 12 credits fully disbursed                                 517.60       06.00
Of which SECALs, SALs, and Progrom Loans a>
Ln. 2990-HDS    1989     Honduras          Structural Adjustment         60.00
Subtotal                                                            50.00
Ln. 2421-HDS      1984   Honduras          Water Supply                  19.60                      10.78
Ln. 268S-HDS     1905   Honduras           Municipal Development          6.90                      4.89
Ln. 2708-HDS     1906   Honduras           Industrial Credit             87.40                      4.28
Ln. 2804-HDS     1907   Honduras           Primary Education              4.40                      8.68
Ln. 2991-HDS     1989   Honduras           Agricultural Credit           26.00                      18.69
* Ln. 32S7-HDS b>  1991   Honduras           Structural Adjustment II      90.00                     90.00
Total                                                              700.90       06.00         126.72
Of which has been repaid                                           192.41        7.41
Total now held by Sonk and IDA                                     609.49         .S69
Amount Sold                4 4.46
Of which has boen repaid:   4.46
Total undisbursed                                                  126.72                     126.72
a) Approved after FY00.
b> This loan became effective on November 14, 1990.
* SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan



31
ANNEX V
HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 2 months
(b) Project prepared by: Ministries of Finance, Economy,
Agriculture, Planning, Trade and Central Bank
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1990
(d) Completion of Negotiations: December 1990
Ce) Planned Date for Effectiveness: January 1991 (expected)
Section II: Snecial Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Soecial Conditions
The credit would be released upon effectiveness.  A satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework is a special condition of effectiveness.
The Loan Agreement for SAL II dated September 17, 1990 would be
amended in order to establish as an additional condition for disbursement
of the second and third tranches, the adjustment, as necessary, of domestic
prices for oil derivatives in line with changes in world market prices or
changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Lempira.



HODURAS - SAL II
MATRIX OF ACTIONS
&tnt-twa IBMu           kttaw lbrnlto be             itobe Actialh for     Status.       ?hotble Actiow             Nelated JEW LfrJtad
Takai before Bonid        Secmi 1rmmhe                                                      amlsse  hir Itada *I*
*L Fq!q td Ime
- h     u ias    - fut pfhese          _         3ttJ   fais of          1          - bassUzti  of             -1W Stud-by
of Mm&* ieIM.       rtlatiaizatiaa of         taiff mtnetwd with                     tarf utritiwf              fd.btift of time
tariff setfwe to          redctlo of rave aW                     n     ad    of            for gmtis p of
-b far a stabe      with rsbutim  of          dSsprmk  to 35-1.                      to P                       1cm. io  30
u"e regim           raw ad diwaim                                                                              to 13 Xb5 (Jim.  M0
to aEtqe           fEn 121 -  to       _       RIcndsm  of aul          3                 to  et p 
ptivte     r        4 .                        oot                                   Iiteatrhp for
fewbmit to La                                    agricultural                        hFort fo _wrcibSW o r
.aqmrt..     -     =tf  ofan             PW&X*A*                                                              -    fmtmipobcsAt
-    ,.of ap  1tio            .teStt 
gt l4gp lfh  taroff -                       -cmt                        3               iftory
dl_pendm bob_t   - OXpes appiwmll           B1d iqmt Uces.
1apialtiwa ad        Pes NMI ta iff t'CSr to  emute
.mn-.pJaslbzal      refou pi_r.             - KUImmt  of                1            teI   tas an
grah't8.                                      texray taxes a                                IontS i acdA
- Adim   t of the           mu,taIttiatal enactst,                wit vfte taw *90
Is p    rate frm       and of tuqmry taxes
LZJS1  to LA2/1           sn traditkmal eupwrts     2
ad adoption of a          In ag ml with the                    - ba nw expoert
flxW1-                           ml-t                            incentlesytem totei
Agreement on             2             accordance wltb agreed
reco m_ndations and
-SUmintion of CM            action plan to
lnxwa1v.                  implement a ac- esxport
Incentive system.                                                                  U  
1. Complied.
2. Significant progress in compliance.
3. To be reviewed during Second Tranche Supervision mission.



RONDURAS - SAL II
MATRIX OF ACTIONS
U*s Aci.e         Status       teerb.AetI.(o                     !4       JE       .
pu. tblici.tlf S
- Lee public sec.to    - M9 cotal ef"* - Volte                                    2                   to em e               SW itet *"so.
se_tte.                $4        o  eDed             80440  #ef|*| tl    tats   O                total  ttXt "@sce
- t   ..t.es c.* t64            cogt            f cress of twi.   es    oectot I                                          *t         ott     .
seaCcotte *1  o eoalter       0.33 .1  2g                                 * S&I     *              am t _ t    _
te               ** '   teas #te   _                   t2-& 1"t                        W r *I      NW
aedite" re..           of awl, eel to tadao h        reiom of tbe eee-iOa'bUafot..
*_e.iodoW p_ubli                                                    sector edea  eel.
2Uieef(e                                                            d o.  *a 1 .92  is .J          A  -X      for
ubttc otUtetee.  .~~~ cv.            - am4  eormiea terog.        3               bet" Om sd              - W l"otom*o
lwcooAreas lotelk to                  ape"*. eot  Iga  so for        tot A t-" e Ta.  o l
too *easoraa, to              to Seeree.. the mes.                  eke 11 ,b lt  tecein           Pef.m.
SeeftoOO   wSi.               tigeeclol .efe..id.s.4                Plaogrt.
etcto  *evo.. to              pblirS.emctor  ioteV4I
o15 -f e9  to 1991.           t.  of                                Siteap *rfgre
is She St0#emestatute
-  dele.t e  e   too        -    YetrliSat  se    of  tow   2        of  tow   "a  ole trotlem
publie moses See rb           actual Me9 posiSt                     r.iworotr
mm0  n      ftit""l       ott"  *   eto
*'ueoglearoo v3icSo* iol
tao itoil. agre".d
5tot-t*ble ito the                                                   projectd Isof 00  tn
ota mmaei.e  of r)ausee.eeqpr.gr..                       3           1991   of    sa vings  of
referA to 1*_  99.            is the ma. adm.i.a                     ItOSDS        and SeAW".
t *1 teoowA em a. 9 
tovfttfto Peogroo.Public easter loeetoost
Prore" tw PM"t
091tiOsSAA                    seoen  et 0.10 
*   ~*                 t     t prgrm  f.  oal  .               a*3 
*eiito* SAdt                                telw
faser) cog s                  of GOP  n 199  of 
(tteoles terattre.)1          avitg  of ttnum
"eaIg  of See S'e
.oetper i"s 0a .3
of 6SF to 1990 "Ao
1. ~  ~ ~ 1.393  Ia 1991d
- goboteie  to ceagrooc
of a we bulges iAeledia
estlem o Caeset tea
fas.a9aa torgeo te r
SWA*WM ad 8*AAA
1. Complied.
2. Slgnificant progress In compliance.
3. To be reviewed during Second Tranche Supervision mission.



HONDURAS - SAL' II
MATRIX OF ACTIONS
&ht_WO i hr           ktlU  ?dIS   bet@ 63     orAle Aftk  fo        Status         bitot*h  k a             bAld _w !!I
tU.~ ~ ~ ~~~~,                              ,                                         . 
t bask grasu,    -   pt ad l em         - 3i1a_, Statk            2             tthfasey               -59 S      .
ml to mtSmlla    ascts"    m  to          vlt the m   at                        aq*iln SUb de
toutf epat "ad         o astad1o 3/199 of vwu*as                                Swlbns1  of            -r 5  t-utgfei
dalauReif mrs     whoe Ipta fo mm         prke ostas far cmu                    tis, WAd wmlstss         Ok FmJmt.
uAt prim          with a* flble           Ath a S hdble taUt                    prim eatm fr ofas.
ep1m  ad          twriff ssput, wA        "Sta, ad ekaWut -l 65M  W  Frna.
qsmatariw         to ellate aeu           o ol ad kwapao                      - atlrt       I pu
neskitam.         Irksestrois ad          pwasaee prim a tlf  ag                        " ad 141s
WAM  prm de            as S aufp.e e |catroi
The t hw           ~eavtral               L.t npl.aaltt  Pmhmts.
prabte mu to                            -I susato                 2             is iqladm of             AdrAesltsuel
e                                 of- 1 99o 1W   d YI"*                 gave"  am"               Crodit.
estm             crUsat                   tstu,VJm  tan _t                      "_a I
Igesfgrsm WD  prf La  19903     La liso.                              La ecodeaIe              IntA - 1 g ricltural
mists5,  ad Lie,                                            ag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~freed Poraseters..  sOd.?v to"
- aila  of dra1     3             ONAMtiM of antr
@atsm"t aeUor t tea                   as.m* aver .am
au& opratisul itasfas                Go& PMAtMI trasfer
WAVor lhs L ai4tt if                 d _o  to "   W         - Km   s   ot
.lqtI     1     -illl tim ofLlS             USWYsqsratIsw                      to a edmof Lo 2to."
I 6sto           .JJll   bt ON P*lc       toe uaof L 4.0                              for 19Q..
slUipto bae t     now h"t to                Ln fot 1991.
ofd)       Ia    h     *t muqfW,
qrIwLt,wasb~Ap -      t ofhl de9t       2
Plea ad fisa                              asa  C _
of" to do _
b4gt f. r   -_
at -of WA atvim,o
I& fo _M adis
Eshma ad ad                          I.
.ime t        C
054 S5greset on
pouters to
meant. pregrese
of omeb osaletance.
1. Complied.
2. Significant progress in compliance.
3.  To be reviewed during Second Tranche Supervision mission.



HONDURAS SAL II
MATRIX  OF ACTIONS
Status
99. fln 04 eli
,, . 4,.,O40oomn$m la Au.l4e.                   -      $oeow. tere_ .s *, '   ^
0*0.o.woa  uMA0~      taoootc Ior    n *#W.       40 to~ 8401044f f 040"                   A44.0 "oe" 4 to me* 46buo
-   ,*   I. # .        ,o   l. ee ..             .    .    .. * a .m o e .                  leae   t    to   m4 r .
ice""               001,4*                            844  me.o,   .                      *ft .
* Wdtat             floo P r 4.    0                     of . b o"m 1                   -*                  of
Itu"Iooe.             #844o *0   #4"040            1b.0 *4 0 404                 1             38A4 Imb    t
* _0          .A4" to " _  -0m                                              e         .0000
4040#904619                                     @480088a,  _b-4 4                         4t ket *ee_o 0 1e$W
Ife                                                   to one"" 8     44400 4
o   A    .  on 14,844.4            Airoet 40_    e 00
.0. a.080           * 4_ 14000 t           0                          2
U.e et r04. I01                                       3           "tom 0440g O  .000
to" 4" 4                       *I                                 ofa4ibe  s8,4  0 
a"s8 oo4140            tefo 04o*  Ioa 5188a apb.44.r4
0*.440  b*. 494        -    80 SS.4..0.0 Ohi    00. 0 00_Z
*0 l ,S2^iSs.4. .uOse  _
84.040      *               _,enao  * 44.0  _o.d4  .eidbo.                       _
'04.140= 0 ~,M
44010 (044.                 0011140 00.040*  . .            w         0.44.
O..
-                          3           0044400419 44.144
- 4010104180t..4              34.004 ,4.4 ge
towe"t Aumwmea-epl mil 
t"   Wit_  #@fes                   _$S e,                                                                  j
#*W$ U'*$ tto - " _a
offt _ao as wa00s, Not.
3           to00eb-4.d  l0eoae,
04~ 004  *eSO.h   @4 #41                  oo04k  a O..
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~*00 a*.*                  # t a..
e4_01 S"440 4   .
4t *.40e   ""*.o    WI                  - 04O      _8*   41
tat04.00  e# .40o                         *eeded    mmtes was.
*4 04804U.4*0..                              oe- 4 t"4. 460. 4 8Q
4.l04   .                    3            840 to
_24 Vokno'l- M                                 40 Sao  44 _    d _ 
480 C40    conceal"                       84.*48  404 C_ "W S"
8064o  t41o    * .464A                     e 4 * 4Lan00e4id
la * .  a4t.001                           " 4oi 4t
40484.t 040C   4Atoolle I                                .t as  
1.  Complied."W
2.  Significant progress in cobpliance.                                                                             '0 . :L8 6
3.  To be reviewed during Sesond  Tranche  Superv4sio9 n mission.  0o                                                 * Lo



IesRO 1977!
W                                U                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO. _Pj
C  ar  tb   ' e a n                       -        ea arnw e. rn*ro                                                                 e
jBELIZE  j                                                     V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
B E L I Z E                                                                                                                                                                                 ZgF GAf/ 1=;X_SU$EftiL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii SAVCO                                                                                           '"'w/-__<'-
NICARAGUA
PACIFIC  OCFAN         XIA
G UAT IMALA                                               Ar
. 16    ii   ,-~~~~                                                                                                                                    ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ....  A.6.   Aercos f \
to _.                                              Alac                                    - 2               5IIg.   oF;Jf_X- -                                   e   etBud
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HON  DURAS                                                                                                      4
S. tf/-                                                                                                                                 Paved Roads
Grove Roads
----Earth Roads
i-+ I  'rRailroads
-~or''                                                                                                                                                 JUNE /fW .ode~Oooo.  .-~---     Rivrs
E L   SALVADOR                                      L                                                                                                  Main Airports
NICARAGUA   ~ ~ ~~~              *     Main Ports
*  National Capital
-.  Department Boundaries
d. ~~~~~~~~~6.                                  I~~~--       nternatortaOsl Boundaries
Elerahons in Meters
KILOMETERS 0    25      00      70     10                      Aboo -1,800
C,  ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        O       7                              1.2~~~~~"   00 - 1,200
G&IF OF                MILES                        sb ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0600 -,0
Pa c//i c          Ocetan a0
oh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE18



