Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USIE ONLY
Report No.13884
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3257-HO)
AND
(CREDIT 2208-HO)
JANUARY 20, 1995
Country Department II
Country Operations Division 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Lempira (L)
US$1.0             =     L 7.26 (December 1993)
c 1.0              =     US$0.1377
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AML               Agricultural Modernization Law
BANADESA          Agricultural Development Bank
BANASUPRO         State Corporation for Distribution of basic goods
BCH               Central Bank of Honduras
CONADI            National Industrial Development Corporation
ESAF              IMF: Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESF               AID: Economic Adjustment Program
FRIS              Honduran Social Investment Fund
HONDUTEL          National Telephone Company
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
IMF               International Monetary Fund
LHMA              National Agricultural Marketing Board
NFPS              Non-Financial Public Sector
OECF              Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR               Program Completion Report
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PRAF              Family Assistance Program
RIT               Temporary Imports Program
SAC               Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
SANAA             State Water Company
SDR               Special Drawing Right
UDAPE             Technical Support Unit
USAID             U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Gneral
Operations Evaluatlon
January 20, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report on Republic of Honduras - Structural Adjustment
Loan II and Structural Adjustment Credit (Loan 3257-HO and Credit 2208-HO)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Republic of Honduras - Structural Adjustment
Loan H and Structural Adjustment Credit (Loan 3257-HO and Credit 2208-HO). Parts I and III were
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was contributed by the
Borrower.
The main objectives of the program were to initiate longer-term structural changes in the economy
in several areas, including fiscal, monetary, trade and exchange rate policy and production incentives,
and to clear arrears with major multilateral and bilateral creditors. While progress was made in
advancing structural change in some areas, notably the exchange rate and trade policy regimes,
incomplete ownership and weak institutional capacity combined with an overly ambitious program led not
only to long delays in enacting reforms but also to important failures, especially in the fiscal area.
The PCR gives a candid and comprehensive account of the objectives, preparation and
implementation of these two operations. In substance, the Credit was a supplement to the loan: both
operations supported the same adjustment program and the objectives were identical. However, prompt
Board approval of SAL II was dictated by Honduras' debt arrears. The country became IDA-eligible only
subsequently, the upshot being two legally separate operations. Coordination with the IMF was close
throughout.
The overall outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory: a reform process has been initiated, but
weak Government commitment and deficient institutional arrangements have impeded steady progress.
Because of these factors sustainability is rated as uncertain. The institutional impact is rated as modest:
the Bank's assistance strategy should have focussed much more on providing needed technical assistance.
An audit is planned as part of a cluster audit including SAL I, whose PCR was sent to the
Executive Directors in FY94.
Attachment
by sot otherwise be disclosed wtbout World Bak autbonsiao.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
PREFACE ................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... iii
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                     .......  1
A. Program Identity..1
B.  Background ......................                                         1
C.    Loan Processing .................................... 3
D.   The Adjustment Program: Objectives and Description .       .            7
Overall Objectives..                                                   7
Description of the Program..                                           7
a.    Trade Policy and Foreign Exchange Management.                    7
b. Fiscal Policy.                                                      8
c.  Agricultural Sector Policies.                                      8
d.    Foreign Exchange Management, Monetary, and Financial
System Policies.                                                9
e.  Social Sector Reforms.                                             9
The Structural Adjustment Credit      ..                               9
E.  Program Design and Organization                    ..                    10
F.    Program Implementation and Monitoring               ..                 13
a.    Board Presentation and Effectiveness Conditionality ... ....... 13
b.    Second Tranche Conditionality ....................... 14
c.    Third Tranche Conditionality ........................ 19
G.    Relationship with the Government's Stabilization Policies and IMF
Stand-By Arrangements                       ..                        23
H.  Sustainability of the Program                    ..                     23
I.    Program Results, Government Ownership, and Overall Evaluation  ... 24
J.  Bank and Borrower Performance                      ..                    28
a.    Bank Performance .............................. 28
b.    Borrower Performance ............................ 29
K.    Lessons Learned .................................... 29
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW  FROM THE GOVERNMENT'S PERSPECTIVE ...  30
A.    Evaluation Summary  ................................  30
B.    Program Implementation and Results  ........ ..        ............  30
a.    Trade and Foreign Exchange .......................  30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



b.       Agriculture    .................................   31
c.       Financial Monetary Sector                 ........................    31
d.    Fiscal Policy ................................. 32
e.       Social Sector Reforms  .......... .. ...............    32
C.       Overal Results and Prospects ............................ 33
D.   Conclusions .................................                                                       33
PART El[: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ........................... 35



i
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(LOAN 3257-HO)
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2208-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) II (Loan 3257-HO). SAL II in the amount equivalent to US$90 million was approved
by the Board in September 13, 1990. The loan account for SAL II was closed on
December 31, 1993 and the loan was fully disbursed.
The PCR (Parts I and  D) was prepared by the Country Operations Division 2,
Country Department II, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II is a
summary based on the Borrower's comprehensive PCR and approved by the Borrower. The
PCR was discussed with the Borrower and there were no significant differences in views on
the information and analysis presented in the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Reports, Loan
Agreement, relevant economic and sector documents, information in project files, and
discussions with Bank staff and Honduran officials.






iii
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN H
(LOAN 3257 - HO)
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2208-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project Objectives. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) were designed to support the Government's 1990-1994 Plan (see
paragraphs 7 - 8). The main areas covered by the Government's medium-term program
included measures to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate private savings and investment in
export-oriented activities; (ii) increase savings and the efficiency of the public sector; (iii)
improve the commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of resources; and (iv) improve
the productivity of the private agricultural sector. The adjustment program was to accelerate
export growth and to increase domestic savings while creating the pre-conditions for a
recovery of economic growth and employment. The program was expected to support the
country's economic recovery and creditworthiness facilitating the country's access to external
financial flows needed to attain long-term sustainable growth.
SAL II addressed the most critical medium-term structural issues affecting the
domestic competitive environment, the management of the public sector, issues of the
agricultural and the financial sector, and the overall macro framework for the adjustment
program. The Government's program was also supported by the IMF and IDB through a
Stand-by and the co-financing of the agricultural portion of the SAL respectively. The IMF
program was to focus primarily on aggregate macro-economic performance issues and
targets, notably the exchange rate regime, levels of fiscal deficits and overall monetary
policies.
2.    Design and Implementation Experience. Conceptually the program's conditionality
was well focused; however, it may have been too ambitious. While the critical areas for
structural reforms were appropriately covered, they contained too many conditions which
subsequently became one of the reasons for the delays encountered during loan



iv
implementation. This program was appropriately timed to coincide with the initiation of
President Callejas' administration. The new Government's interest in market-oriented
economic reforms was perhaps one of the principal considerations in favor of the loan's
approval, in view of SAL I's disappointing results.
3.    The following limitations in design and implementation of the program were noted:
*     While the SAL was appropriately timed in consideration of the new Government, the
pressures to eliminate Honduras' arrears should have argued in terms of a more
cautious approach in setting Board and Second Tranche conditions (Part I, par.35).
*     While key policy decision makers were involved in the design of the program,
perhaps greater participation by their respective deputies or other experienced
Government officials during loan preparation would have provided valuable input in
terms of loan design (Part I, par. 39).
*     Loan design should have limited the financial sector component to the reform of
banking legislation. A more efficient strategy would have been to have pressed for
comprehensive financial system reforms through new legislation to update the organic
law of the BCH, to consolidate all financial intermediaries, and to reinforce the
powers of the Superintendency (Part I, par. 43).
*     The Superintendency lacked proper regulatory authority to supervise the
implementation of the condition on classification of risk assets. Staff should have been
more sensitive to these institutional constraints and raised the issue early on during the
loan design stage. Perhaps a more productive approach would have been to provide
technical assistance in the form of external auditors to work with the Superintendency
in the evaluation and classification of the banking system's loan portfolio including
incorporation of the new procedures in the examiners' handbook.
*     The loan contained too many conditions. In view of the difficulties encountered during
SAL I, the loan's conditionality should have been narrowed to focus on the principal
weaknesses in economic management such as: (i) stabilizing public sector finances;
(ii) reforming agricultural and trade policies; (iii) liberalizing interest rates; and (iv)
formulating a new banking legislation. In retrospect, it may have been preferable to
have reduced the number of conditions in the program (see par. 36).
4.    Program Results. The results of SAL II were encouraging in terms of exchange rate
management, domestic interest rates and growth of non-traditional exports. The impetus to
private savings came from higher interest rates relative to inflation. Investment in export-
oriented industries contributed to the strong growth of non-traditional exports. However,
progress towards greater public savings and efficiency of the public sector was disappointing.
For instance, the NFPS deficit for 1993 was about 10 percent of GDP, which is higher than
in 1989, the year before the SAL became effective.



V
5.    The principal accomplishments of SAL II include the following:
*     Introduction of greater flexibility in the exchange rate regime.
*     Liberalization of domestic interest rates contributed to increased savings. The
application of a market based interest rate formula to the BCH's rediscount facilities
eliminated an important element of subsidies in public sector lending.
*     Establishment of a uniform tariff band of 5 - 20 percent opened up the economy to
increased competition while providing an incentive to investment in export oriented
activities based on the country's comparative advantage.
*     Progress in the divestiture of IHMA assets, the closure of BANASUPRO distribution
centers, and the restructuring of BANADESA marked a significant first step toward
increasing public sector efficiency.
*     Increased flexibility in exchange rate management combined with reforms of interest
rate and trade policies stimulated growth of non-traditional exports.
*     The implementation of the social support program through the distribution of food
coupons to targeted families (PRAF) and through the social investment projects
(FHIS) were instrumental in alleviating social conditions and in identifying the
neediest sectors of the population.
6.    Sustainability. The lack of continuity in fiscal policy combined with weak institutional
capabilities to implement reforms compromised the sustainability of the program. While the
scope of the program was overly ambitious, it was undermined principally because of
disappointing results in the critical areas of fiscal policy, and weaknesses in the financial and
agricultural sectors.
7.    In retrospect, slippage was prevalent throughout the loan's experience. As explained
in the section on implementation, the relative size of the fiscal deficit in 1993 exceeded the
1989 figure. A few days after the November 1993 Presidential elections, the Government
instituted across the board price controls, which threatened to undermine the reform
program's credibility. Insufficient legislative action to support the government's main reform
initiatives, especially in the areas of tax reform, export promotion, and financial sector
reforms, put in question the sustainability of current reform initiatives.
8.    Despite the shortcomings, the loan made important progress in several areas that
should facilitate future attempts to get back on a stabilization/structural reforms track.
Foreign exchange management has improved considerably with the introduction of the
interbank market. Nevertheless, it is somewhat unusual that the Constitution still recognizes
the rate of L2/$ as the official exchange rate. Interest rate liberalization has been conducive
to increased savings and reduced capital outflows. Government action to reform the system



vi
of exchange rate management could bolster investor confidence in the management of
economic policy. The reorganization of the BCH's rediscounting mechanism has paved the
way for future monetary policy reforms that could ensure the autonomy of the Central Bank
in the management of monetary policy. Institutional weakness in the use of open market
operations should be dealt with through more technical assistance. The likelihood of serious
liquidity problems in the financial system should prompt the passage of new banking
legislation that would diminish the potential for a future financial crisis.
9.    Lessons Learned. The principal lessons learned from the experience of SAL II include
the following:
*     When faced with the need to eliminate arrears, or to normalize the status of non-
performing loans as in the case of Honduras, the Bank should consider structuring a
SAL, with a narrower scope, and then to follow-up with a more comprehensive
program. The Bank might also consider a multi-year SAL but with greater
conditionality in the second and third tranches. The pressures to eliminate Honduras'
arrears should have argued in terms of a more cautious approach in setting Board and
Second Tranche conditions.
*     Government commitment is essential to the success of the program. The lack of
continuity in Govemment stabilization policies combined with weak institutional
capabilities to implement reforms put in question the sustainability of the program.
With the hindsight of SAL I's disappointments, the lack of a good track record in
policy reforms should have alerted the Bank to take a more cautious approach with
this operation. The approach of the November 1993 presidential elections detracted
the Government's attention from structural adjustment efforts, and policy reversals
casted some doubt on the Government's commitment.
*     The design of structural adjustment programs should put greater emphasis on the
stabilization component even if it means incorporating only a limited number of
structural reform conditions. Honduras' predominant political cycle, which is typified
during the first two years by positive economic actions, followed by policy slippage
during the latter two years as a new electoral process takes hold, appears to have been
one of the main obstacles to program sustainability.
*    Broader participation of the Government officials, who would eventually implement
the program, in program design is essential. While key policy decision makers were
involved in the design of the program, perhaps greater participation by their
respective deputies or other experienced Government officials during loan preparation
would have provided valuable input in terms of loan design. The individuals involved
in the SAL's preparation and negotiations clearly understood and supported the
Government's views regarding the need for structural reforms, and shared its
willingness to implement a successful program; nevertheless discussions might have
been expanded to incorporate the views of Government officials who had a better



vii
understanding of the bureaucratic machinery, and who could thus have contributed to
the design of specific conditions.
*     When weakness in institutional reform capabilities is identified, particularly after
problems are encountered in a previous operation, such as SAL I, greater emphasis
needs to be placed on technical assistance. SAL II covered a lot of ground for policy
reforms, but, in contrast, contained little in the way of technical assistance. Some of
the areas that could have benefitted from technical assistance include: (i) fiscal policy,
TA program for tax administration and enforcement; (ii) monetary policy, TA
program to strengthen the Central Bank's capacity to manage monetary policy with
emphasis on open market operations; (iii) banking system, TA program to assist
banking supervisors in the evaluation and classification of the banking system's loan
portfolio, as well as a more comprehensive program to reinforce the
Superintendency's institutional capabilities.
*     The design of the loan should be more specific with respect to conditionality. Some of
the conditions were left unspecific such as, the rationalization of BANASUPRO's and
IHMA's operations. It was decided to define them before the tranche releases.
Government officials interviewed for this report mentioned that they were not clear on
the meaning of the term rationalization. If further analysis of the problem was
required, as in the case of IHMA and BANASUPRO, then the condition in the policy
matrix should have been stated as: preparation of a strategic plan outlining possible
options to restructure and downsize operations of IHMA and BANASUPRO, instead
of rationalization. If the Bank was already convinced of the need to sell off IHMA's
assets, then this should have been stated explicitly. As stated in the section on loan
design, in view of the large number of conditions, another option would have been
simply to postpone these conditions to a follow-up operation. Wording of loan
conditionality should be more precise in order to avoid future misunderstandings and
thus implementation delays. However, during negotiations, it was also the Borrower's
responsibility to point out any conditions that seemed unspecific or unclear.
*     Careful examination of evidence is essential for proper supervision of loan
implementation. The Superintendency's supervision of bank loan re-classifications
may not have been sufficient to meet the proposed objectives. To the extent possible
the Bank should rely on specialized auditors, or more field visits to ascertain the
validity of borrower compliance; and when necessary, recommend technical assistance
to support the Government's capacity to implement as well as enforce policy reforms.
*     The loan contained too many conditions. In retrospect, it may have been preferable
to have reduced the number of conditions in the program. Within the trade policy
component, the condition dealing with a new export incentive system might have been
postponed to a follow up operation. At the time of loan appraisal the most important
obstacle to export development was the exchange rate and tariff restrictions. Fiscal
policy conditions dealing with public sector deficit and current savings could have



viii
been coordinated with the IMF, and thus reduce the number of conditions subject to
Bank scrutiny. While sale of IHMA assets was necessary in view of agricultural price
liberalization, the rationalization of BANASUPRO could have been postponed to a
follow up SAL or sectoral operation. Conditions dealing with the Central Bank's
rediscount operations could have been simplified to one condition on adjusting interest
rates to levels compatible with market rates. The condition on the reorganization of
the BCH's administration of rediscount facilities could have been postponed to a
follow up operation. At the same time, the commercial bank's conditionality should
have been limited to the implementation of new regulations on asset classification;
and another condition dealing with the passage of new banking legislation should have
been considered.



PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Program  Identity:
Name                    Structural Adjustment Loan U and Structural
Adjustment Credit.
Loan Number             3257 - HO
Credit Number     :    2208-HO
RVP Unit                Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
Country                 Honduras
Sector                  Non-Project Lending
B.   Background
1.   Honduras is one of the poorest countries in the Westem Hemisphere with a
population, at the time of loan approval in 1990, of 5.0 million growing at an annual rate of
2.8 percent. Following a series of currency devaluations in that year, Honduras' per capita
income was estimated at US$481 , higher only than that of Bolivia, Haiti and Nicaragua in
Latin America. Extreme poverty affects over 50 percent of the population nationally, and
nearly 80 percent in rural areas. Infant mortality is over 60 per 1000 live births. Malnutrition
is severe, particularly among children, and nearly two thirds of the population lack adequate
housing and sanitation facilities. More than 30 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
2.   Historically, Honduras' development strategy had been inward-looking, based on
import substitution behind high protective barriers and extensive govermment intervention
involving credit subsidies, price controls and tax incentives. As a result of this strategy, the
manufacturing sector had become generally inefficient, much of agricultural production did
not reflect the country's comparative advantage, and overall productivity was low. The
Bank's objective with SAL It was to support a program of reforms that would remedy the
inappropriate policies of the past, and establish a solid foundation for sustained growth
through increased competitiveness.
3.   Honduras' most important sector is agriculture, with output dominated by two crops:
coffee and bananas, which account for 55 percent of total exports. Honduras' dependence on
these two commodities, subject to fluctuating commodity prices, has been partly responsible
for persistent balance of payments difficulties. When prices of these commodities were
higher, booming exports tended to fuel domestic expenditures and imports, which failed to
contract when export prices declined.



2
4.    Honduras, together with other Central American countries, experienced a severe drop
in economic activity during the early 1980's, followed by stagnation in the latter part of the
decade. While real GDP growth had averaged 5 percent per annum during the 1960s and
1970s, it averaged only 2.3 percent per annum during the 1980s, below annual population
growth. Between 1981 and 1990 gross domestic investment as a share of GDP averaged 17
percent, compared to 22 percent during the 1970s. This decline was primarily due to a sharp
drop in the share of private investment which fell from an annual average of about 14
percent in the 1970s, to 9.5 percent during the 1980's.
5.    Honduras' erratic economic perfonnance during the 1980s was due to fundamental
structural weaknesses, that made long-term growth unsustainable unless major economic
reforms were enacted. A large and inefficient public sector was one of the principal
impediments to sustainable growth. The overall deficit of the Non-financial Public Sector
(NFPS) had averaged 7.5 percent during 1980-88. Successive governments were slow in
taking corrective measures to address these structural problems, because Honduras received
record inflows of foreign assistance throughout the 1980's, that camouflaged the seriousness
of the underlying economic trends. Honduras' external debt grew sharply during the 1980's
almost tripling to over US$3.0 billion by 1989. Since much of the assistance was linked to
the "contra War" being fought along the Honduras-Nicaragua border and did not address the
country's structural constraints, it did little to contribute to an expansion of the country's
productive capacity and to economic advancement. Against this backdrop, SAL I supported
the Government's efforts to create the conditions and awareness for a more far-reaching
adjustment effort. However, these earlier were not successful.
6.    On January 20, 1990, President Rafael Leonardo Callejas assumed office with the
pledge to renew the adjustment process. The President's campaign platform had clearly
identified the principal areas for reform. The so-called Government Plan (Plan de Gobierno)
had drawn on the earlier experiences with structural adjustment under SAL I, on the
recommendations of external consultants, and on the victorious National Party's vision of the
future for Honduras. The main objectives of the economic program were organized around
four basic areas:
1.    Fiscal policy: Achieve a balanced budget; improve the revenue base and
enhance the buoyancy of tax revenues; reduce state intervention in the
economy, including the transfer of certain public services to the private sector;
downsize the defense budget.
2.    Monetary and Exchange Rate policy: Achieve greater transparency in the
functioning of the money markets, and implement new mechanisms that would
prevent further distortions in the foreign exchange market.
3.    Trade Policy: Promote exports through reforms to existing legislation,
institutional framework, and operational infrastructure; eliminate protectionist
barriers.



3
4.    Production Incentives: Enhance productivity and competitiveness with
particular emphasis on key sectors of agriculture and agro-industries; establish
sectoral programs dealing with the development of forestry resources; self-
sufficiency in certain basic products; promotion of non-traditional exports and
the tourism industry.
7.   In the social area, the Government's program recognized the dire poverty afflicting a
large segment of the population. To cope with this the Government announced that it would
establish an emergency social fund to provide resources for employment creation, nutritional
assistance, job training, and health care which subsequently received IDA support.
C.   Loan Processing
8.    SAL II was proposed by the Government shortly after President Callejas assumed
office in January 1990. Several factors made loan preparation a difficult process: first, the
country's weak implementation capacity; second, weak performance under SAL I ; and third,
the existence of large debt arrears to the Bank, as well as to other multilateral agencies.
Weak program performance and large debt arrears had actually led to the Bank's decision to
suspend the second and final tranche of SAL I until June 1990. Among the issues highlighted
by the PCR for SAL I were that the Bank should not have gone ahead without a fully
satisfactory set of stabilization measures; especially with a borrower of doubtful
creditworthiness.' SAL II was designed to help the country out of its arrears, while placing
greater emphasis on the structural adjustment problems associated with SAL I. The resulting
program was technically well designed; however, it contained too many conditions that went
beyond the Government's institutional as well as political capabilities.
9.    Preparations for SAL II began in February, when parallel Bank, IMF and IDB
missions discussed with economic authorities the new government's reform program,
outlining in general terms a strong stabilization and adjustment strategy. Preparations moved
into high gear in March 1990, after the Government announced a comprehensive economic
package which addressed a number of critical areas that had plagued SAL I. The measures
were contained in Decree 18-90, which subsequently became the core of the SAL II Board
presentation conditions. Decree 18-90 established the framework for subsequent reforms. The
decree dealt with three policy areas: exchange rate, trade and fiscal policies. With respect to
the exchange rate, the decree established a customs valuation factor for imported goods
which was to be based on the inter-bank exchange rate. In effect, the Government did not
attempt to alter the official rate of L2/$, which had been fixed since 1918 under the
Constitution, but rather introduced a new quasi-official rate whose value was still going to be
arbitrarily determined by the BCH. It also affirmed BCH's authority to determine the sources
and uses of funds in the inter-bank market. Trade policy reforms consisted of the elimination
'See Project Completion Report for SAL I, June 1993, page iv.



4
of tariff exemptions, and the reduction in the number of goods subject to the 10 percent
import tariff surcharge.
10.   Fiscal policy changes introduced by Decree 18-90 dealt exclusively with income and
sales taxes. Adjustments to the income tax regime were applied to individuals as well as
corporations. For individual taxpayers, the minimum deduction was increased and new ones
were introduced; although the highly progressive tax rate schedule remained intact. Corporate
tax rates were reduced to two, 15 percent and 35 percent, but only for profits under
L500,000. Above that amount, corporate profits were subject to an onerous surcharge which
would lead to an effective rate of 45 percent. The decree also increased the sales tax rate
from 5 percent to 7 percent, even though the Bank's and the IMF's recommendation had
been 10 percent. Other modifications included a change in production taxes from specific to
ad-valorem, and a temporary exchange rate gains tax associated with the new valuation factor
applied to exporters.
11.   While Decree 18-90 broke the impasse in the negotiations with the Bank and other
multilateral agencies and confirmed the bona fide intentions of the new Government to
achieve lasting adjustment, it was only a first step towards more comprehensive reforms.
Relative to the weak performnance under SAL I, the March 1990 package was viewed by the
Bank as a signal that the new Government would be willing to take on additional reforms. In
this regard, the Bank appropriately reciprocated by initiating the loan appraisal.
12.   One of the overriding issues during loan preparation was the need to eliminate
Honduras' arrears to the multilateral agencies, including the Bank. To some extent, the
imperative to normalize debt service payments transformed the preparation phase into a debt
restructuring exercise. In essence, Honduras needed SAL II to meet its external debt
obligations. As of May 1990, arrears to multilateral agencies were $240 million, of which:
$147.1 million was owed to the Bank, $55.6 million to the IDB, and $37.3 million to the
IMF. Clearly the Bank's sizeable exposure, which had been placed on non-accrual, explained
management's emphasis on completing the loan operation in a timely way. The logistics of
the debt restructuring involved arranging a bridge loan, mostly from bilateral sources that
included the U.S., Mexico, and Venezuela. Accordingly, Bank management recommended
to the Board that the second tranche of SAL I be released upon clearance of arrears.2 Once
assembled, the bridge financing package cleared all multilateral arrears in June, thus
removing the primary obstacle to release of SAL I's second tranche, and paving the way for
Board presentation for SAL II.
13.   During loan appraisal, the Bank considered the possibility of IDA financing for
Honduras; however, eligibility for IDA funding required that the country be current on debt
service payments. In addition, it was necessary for the IMF to certify the parallel exchange
rate as the official exchange rate, in order to convert local GDP figures into dollars at a
2See Project Completion Report: SAL I, June 1993.



5
more realistic exchange rate. In view of the urgency to clear up Honduras' debt arrears, the
Bank decided to proceed with SAL II, and to follow up with another loan once the Board
approved IDA participation.
14.   At the time of appraisal, the staff was well aware that SAL II could encounter the
same implementation problems as the preceding loan. In the March 1990 Loan Committee
meeting to review the SAL II Initiating Memorandum, a number of participants expressed
concerns about the capacity of the various institutions to carry out a program of economic
reform as far-reaching as outlined in the Initiating Memorandum. It was further noted that
the loan as proposed did not include any technical assistance which would be necessary to
ensure the success of the program. The staff emphasized the importance of timing to resolve
Honduras' arrears.
15.  Implementation of SAL II was to be complemented by an IMF Stand-by program
which was approved in July 1990. The IMF program was focused primarily on aggregate
macro-economic performance issues and targets, notably the exchange rate regime. Co-
financing was arranged with IDB in the form of an agricultural sector adjustment loan of $50
million using as a basis SAL I agricultural sector conditionality.
16.   Board Presentation of SAL II was made on September 13, 1990. It became effective
on November 14, 1990. The first tranche of US$45 million was disbursed upon
effectiveness. In October 1990, Honduras became eligible for IDA financing. As per staff
recommendations, a Structural Adjustment Credit for SDR 14.3 million was approved by the
Board in January 1991. While the SAC was, in effect, an extension of SAL II, the legal
separation between Bank and IDA loan operations prevented the attachment of the IDA
funding as an amendment to the original loan agreement. Thus a new President's Report
and Loan Agreement had to be prepared even though the objectives were the same as in SAL
II.
D.   The Adjustment Program: Objectives and Description
Overall Objectives
17.   The structural adjustment loan3 was designed to support the Government's 1990-1994
Plan (see paragraphs 7 - 8). The main areas covered by the Government's medium-term
program included measures to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate private savings and
3 In this report use of the following terms: Structural Adjustment Loan, SAL II, Loan or
Agreement, refers to both SAL II (loan number 3257-HO) and SAC (loan number 2208-HO).
As explained in paragraph 16 the SAC was proposed as an amendment to SAL II; but had to
be structured as a legally separate operation since it was a IDA funded loan. Nevertheless,
the SAC's objectives were identical to those of SAL II. For purposes of this report, both
operations are considered as one.



6
investment in export-oriented activities; (ii) increase savings and the efficiency of the public
sector; (iii) improve the commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of resources; and (iv)
improve the productivity of the private agricultural sector. The adjustment program was to
establish the pre-conditions for an export-oriented market economy and to increase domestic
savings while creating the pre-conditions for a recovery of economic growth and
employment. The program was expected to support the country's creditworthiness,
facilitating the country's access to external financial flows needed to attain long-term
sustainable growth.
SAL II addressed the most critical medium-term structural issues affecting the
domestic competitive environment, the management of the public sector, issues of the
agricultural and the financial sector, and the overall macro framework for the adjustment
program. The Government's program was also supported by the IMF and IDB through a
Stan-by and the co-financing of the agricultural portion of the SAL respectively.
The Structural Adjustment Credit
18. The SAC in the amount of SDR 14.3 million (US$20 million equivalent) was to
supplement the first tranche release under the SAL II. For the purposes of this report, it is
considered as part of the SAL II, although legally they are two different agreements. The
SAC was to be disbursed fully upon credit effectiveness which was to depend on a favorable
evaluation of the Government's economic program. The only other condition was to amend
the SAL II Agreement's second and third tranche conditions to include that domestic prices
for oil derivatives be adjusted as necessary in line with changes in world market prices or
changes in the exchange rate between the US$ and the Lempira.
Description of the Program
19.   SAL II was disbursed in three tranches upon compliance with specific policy
measures. A matrix listing loan conditionality and compliance is found in Annex 1.
a.    Trade Policy and Foreign Exchange Management
20.   As part of its agreement with the IMF, the Government had confirmed its decision to
follow macro-economic and exchange rate policies aimed at maintaining, and improving the
competitiveness of its exports.
21.   As part of the reforns supported under SAL II, the dispersion and level of import
tariffs were to be further reduced, eventually reaching a band of 5 - 25 percent. Elimination
of all Central Bank import permits were another major element of the trade policy reforms
under the SAL operation. In addition, all quantitative restrictions for agricultural product
imports were to be eliminated.



7
b.    Fiscal Policy
22.   Honduras' chronic fiscal deficits were indicative of the need for structural reforms to
enhance revenues as well as to reduce non-essential expenditures. Low public savings and
large public sector deficits have been financed with increasing levels of external debt as well
as increased levels of monetary expansion. In 1990, the Government began to restrain current
expenditures by limiting nominal wage increases to a maximum of 10 percent during that
year. Limitations on the growth of current expenditures, care in defining and implementing
an efficient public investment program, and the strengthening of the cost effectiveness of
public enterprises were major objectives of the Government's medium-term adjustment
program. In accordance with these objectives, the Govermnent defined annual public savings
targets of 0.5 percent of GDP for 1990, and of 1.7 percent for 1991.
23.   Reforms in the tax system were key to strengthening medium-term finances of the
central government. The main objectives of the Government's fiscal reform were: a)
administrative improvements in the management of the customs system and the collection of
the sales tax; and b) a tax reform modifying the structure and rates of income, property and
value-added taxes. Second and third tranche conditionality called for a satisfactory agreement
between the Bank and Government on recommendations of a study on tax reform and the
action plan to implement them.
24.   The Government was also committed to maintaining a public investment program with
an appropriate balance between the limited priority investments needed for strengthening non-
traditional exports and necessary basic social infrastructure. The Bank and the Government
reached agreement on the 1990 investment program during loan appraisal. Agreement on
investment programs for subsequent years as well as monitoring of its implementation were
attached to the loan's conditionality. A program for the restructuring and adjustment of the
major public enterprises was prepared by the Ministries of Finance, Economy and Planning.
A financial program defining: (i) targets for tariff adjustments on public services; (ii)
reductions in current expenditures; and (iii) external debt service, was specified for the two
largest decentralized institutions (HONDUTEL, SANAA).
c.    Agricultural Sector Policies
25.   Agriculture is the most important sector of the Honduran economy, employing more
than 50 percent of the labor force, accounting for over 20 percent of GDP, and generating
over two thirds of export earnings. The basic tasks for agriculture required the elimination of
the negative effects of the incentive system and the Government's intervention in the
agricultural markets. The Government's program included measures to bring agricultural
prices gradually in line with international prices by eliminating price controls at the
wholesale and retail levels, and by eliminating quantitative controls on imports of basic
grains. The guarantee price system and quantitative restrictions on basic grains administered
by IHMA were to be eliminated, and in the case of corn, replaced by a flexible tariff system.
IHMA and BANASUPRO's purchasing and marketing activities were to be increasingly



8
transferred to the private sector.
d.    Monetary and Financial System Policies
26.   In order for the financial sector to play a role in the development effort envisaged in
the adjustment program, it needed to increase its intermediation efficiency and strengthen its
long-term viability. To increase the sector's efficiency, the Government contemplated
measures to: (i) provide a flexible interest rate policy, and (ii) eliminate directed credit. To
strengthen the financial system's long-term viability, the Government's program included
actions to: (i) strengthen the quality of the commercial banks' portfolio; (ii) reach adequate
provisions against bad debts ratio; (iii) reduce the concentration of credit to individuals; and
(iv) strengthen the Superintendency of Banks.
27.   The action program agreed under the loan included measures to: (i) eliminate the
difference between interest rates applied to all Central Bank rediscount facilities; (ii)
quarterly reviews of interest rate ceilings; and (iii) administrative unification of all rediscount
and credit lines managed by the BCH. To address the need to strengthen the banking
system's financial health, the loan called for the following measures: (i) a reclassification of
commercial banks' assets; (ii) provisioning of reserves for loan losses in accordance with the
new asset classifications; (iii) maintenance of minimnum capital requirements under risk asset
standards; and (iv) design of a program for the reorganization of the agricultural financial
system, including restructuring of BANADESA.
e.    Social Sector Reforms
28.   The Bank's appraisal anticipated that the initial effects of the adjustment measures
implemented by the Government could partially give rise to unemployment and poverty. It
was recognized that the sharp price adjustments required for the stabilization process would
fuel inflation in the initial stages of the program. The Government sought to offset the initial
negative social impact of the program by setting up an Emergency Social Fund (FHIS) which
would provide employment by funding small works in Honduras' municipalities, by financing
a targeted program of family subsidies, and temporarily subsidizing fuel prices for public
urban transportation. Specific actions were defined in the loan agreement dealing with budget
support for the Ministries of Health and Education, and for programs to provide food and
employment for the neediest sectors of the population.
E.    Program Design and Organization
29.   The SAL was designed with particular emphasis on improving incentives to stimulate
private savings and investment in export-oriented activities; increasing public sector savings
and efficiency; improving commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of resources; and
improving the productivity of the private agricultural sector. Many of the program conditions
involved changing, restructuring and revitalizing public sector institutions and government
policies to establish a more hospitable environment for private sector investment.



9
Conceptually the program's conditionality was well focused; however, it may have been too
ambitious. While the critical areas for structural reforms were appropriately covered, they
contained too many conditions which subsequently became one of the reasons for the delays
encountered during loan implementation. The program was appropriately timed to coincide
with the initiation of President Callejas' administration.
30.   While the SAL was appropriately timed in consideration of the new Government, the
pressures to eliminate Honduras' arrears should have argued for a more cautious approach in
setting Board and Second Tranche conditions. Undoubtedly the normalization of Honduras'
debt service payments was a precondition to any Bank operation in the country. In fact,
SAL I's second tranche had been suspended due to arrears, and Honduran exposure had been
placed in non-performing status. In effect SAL II had two main objectives: first, help to
restructure the external debt; and second, to support the economic program. The logistical
and design requirements of these objectives are quite different. Some Government officials
interviewed for this report, commented that they were under strong pressures to get loan
approval on a fast track, so that they could meet their bridge loan commitments. The
preoccupation with the restructuring of Honduras' debt arrears to multilateral creditors
should have resulted in less up-front conditionality, or even a less ambitious program that
would have allowed for normalization of debt payments while preparing the way for a
follow-up operation.
31.   The loan contained too many conditions. In view of the difficulties encountered during
SAL I, the loan's conditionality should have been narrowed to focus on the principal
weaknesses in economic management such as: (i) stabilizing public sector finances; (ii)
reforming agricultural and trade policies; (iii) liberalizing interest rates; and (iv) formulating
a new banking legislation. In retrospect, it may have been preferable to have reduced the
number of conditions in the program. Exchange rate, trade, and interest rate policy reforms
were a critical first step to promoting private sector investment and export development.
However, the condition for recommendations for a new export incentive system, could have
been postponed to a follow up or sectoral operation. A narrower focus on the elimination of
the income tax exemption and several other amendments to the existing RIT framework
might have been appropriate. In fact a draft law to fix the RIT framework was eventually
submitted to Congress in early 1993, yet at the time of this report the legislature had not
acted on any of the proposed reforms. Fiscal reforms conditionality should have been
applied both at a consolidated and sub-account levels. Perhaps a more efficient approach
would have been to establish an overall fiscal deficit target within the context of an IMF
program. This would have tied both programs together in terms of Government actions,
while keeping the conditionality of each agreement legally separate, thus ensuring that
second and third tranche releases would have been dependent on a successful ongoing IMF
program. Another advantage of this approach is that the loan's fiscal savings conditionality
applied only up to 1991, but third tranche release was delayed until August 1993. At the time
of tranche release in 1983, in effect there was no condition on review of fiscal savings for
1992.



10
32.   While sale of IHMA assets was necessary in view of agricultural price liberalization,
the rationalization of BANASUPRO could have been postponed to a follow up SAL or
sectoral operation. Conditions dealing with the Central Bank's rediscount operations could
have been simplified to one condition on adjusting interest rates to levels compatible with
market rates. The condition on the reorganization of the BCH's administration of rediscount
facilities could have been postponed to a follow up operation. At the same time, the
commercial bank's conditionality should have been limited to the implementation of new
regulations on asset classification; and another condition dealing with the passage of new
banking legislation should have been considered. All in all, the staff should have been more
sensitive to the Government's limited institutional capacity to implement so many conditions.
Although the new Government seemed committed to a program of reforms, it lacked
experience. In this regard more emphasis could have been placed on technical assistance in
the areas of tax administration and financial sector organization.
33.   While key policy decision makers were involved in the design of the program,
perhaps greater participation by their respective deputies or other experienced Government
officials during loan preparation would have provided valuable input in terms of loan design.
Some Government officials, who were subsequently charged with implementation of the
program, reported that they had not been involved in the design of the SAL. The
Government basically agreed with the Bank on broad objectives under each of the major
policy areas, and expected the Bank to work out the explicit conditions. The Government's
new economic team was inexperienced with SALs; since SAL I had been negotiated by the
previous government. In view of the new economic team's lack of experience in design and
implementation of economic policy, perhaps the Bank should have encouraged participation
in the program design by other Government officials.
34.   Certain conditions required extensive monitoring, especially the development and
implementation of quantitative data gathering systems for which the Government did not have
the staff or resources. For example, the conditionality dealing with an investment budget for
social sectors prescribed the development of quantitative parameters, since existing
information was not suitable for the task at hand. Monitoring was made more difficult since
the Government had assigned only two people to coordinate the program until April 1993,
when the UDAPE office was established. These constraints should have been identified early
on during the loan design stage to have allowed appropriate modifications to the
conditionality, or to have considered technical assistance reinforcement.
35.   Liberalization of interest rates and of the exchange rate regime were critical
components of the program which, combined with the trade policy reforms, contributed to
the strong growth of non-traditional exports. However, the freeing up of interest rates
uncovered some institutional weaknesses in the management of monetary policy. As
discussed in the following section on loan implementation, interest rate liberalization reduced
the degrees of freedom available to the BCH in conducting monetary policy. In the absence
of a well developed money market, the Central Bank had to resort to the reserve requirement
rate as the principal instrument of monetary policy. This weakness should not have deterred



11
the freeing up of interest rates; but rather it should have been accompanied by a technical
assistance component to strengthen the Central Bank's capacity to manage monetary policy.
36.   The design of the commercial banking system reforms was consistent with the
objective of strengthening the financial system, but not with existing banking legislation. The
commercial banking legislation in effect at the time of loan appraisal, and which remains
unchanged, dated back to the 1950's and imposed few constraints on risk exposure. Even
though capital adequacy requirements were defined in terms of debt to equity ratios, the loan
called for a review of capital adequacy in terms of capital to asset ratios adjusted for risk.
The organic law of the BCH was also outdated in view of the sizeable structural changes that
had occurred in the financial system since the 1950's. The Superintendency of banks was
established as a department within the BCH with minimal regulatory and enforcement
powers. In effect the only enforcement power of the Superintendency was to approve
dividend payments of banks. Thus the legal basis for requiring that banks adopt a new loan
classification standard with appropriate loan loss provisioning was not enforceable.
37.   Since the current banking legislation applies only to commercial banks, non-bank
financial intermediaries are unregulated. Finance companies, which are non-bank
intermediaries, have been one of the fastest growing segments of the financial industry.
Some banks own a finance company in order to offer their clients more attractive terms on
their deposits or loans. Loan design should have limited the financial sector component to the
reform of banking legislation. A more efficient strategy would have been to have pressed for
comprehensive financial system reforms through new legislation to update the organic law of
the BCH, to consolidate all financial intermediaries, and to reinforce the powers of the
Superintendency.
38.   Agricultural sector reforms were supposed to prepare the ground for a subsequent
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC). The AGSAC was eventually approved by
the Board on August 5, 1993, and became effective on November 10, 1993. In this regard,
some of the conditions such as the restructuring of the agricultural financial sector were
expected to be fulfilled in the context of an AGSAC. Nevertheless, the Bank's approach to
agricultural financial sector down-played the importance of first dealing with the problem of
BANADESA. BANADESA should not have been written off simply because of its losses.
The Government subsequently created two more financial institutions, the Rural Credit
Banks (Cajas Rurales) and the Land Trust Fund whose potential for resolving the
agricultural sector's credit needs is questionable.
39.   Submission of draft legislation should not have been considered sufficient to assure
progress towards reforms. Export incentives, banking sector, and tax reform legislation were
submitted to Congress, and have been stuck there. Perhaps loan conditionality should
specify the implementation of such reforms rather than submission of the relevant legislation.



12
F.   Program Implementation and Monitoring
40.   While most of the conditions were met, significant delays were encountered during
the second and third tranche reviews with their compliance. At this end, four conditions were
only substantially met, and five waivers were requested. It was evident that the Bank was too
optimistic regarding the Government's capacity to implement a detailed program such as SAL
II. The principal implementation and monitoring results are summarized below.
a.    Board Presentation and Effectiveness Conditionality
41.   Decree 18-90 issued March 1990, made up the core Board presentation conditionality.
As explained in paras. 7 - 8, the principal components were: introduction of a more flexible
foreign exchange regime, some modifications to tax policy, and numerous reforms to trade
policy. In addition to these, the Bank's conditionality for Board presentation included
congressional approval of public sector savings and overall deficit targets for 1990, approval
of financial restructuring programs for SANAA and HONDUTEL, increased interest rate
ceilings, preparation of an action program for replacing guarantee prices of agricultural
commodities, and preparation of a rationalization program for BANASUPRO and IHMA.
42.  Just prior to Board presentation, the Bank had expressed strong concern about the
widening gap between the interbank and the parallel exchange rates. In March, the interbank
rate had been set at L4.0/$ and became L4.2 /$ in May, where it remained until September.
Despite repeated efforts by the Bank and the Fund to induce further exchange rate
adjustments, the Government resisted claiming that a strong adjustment or unification of
exchange rates would inflict severe social costs and could destabilize prices. In essence, the
Government was committed to the unification of the exchange rates, but only gradually. In
view of the pressures arising from the bridge loan deadline, the Bank decided to proceed
with Board presentation, after incorporating the adjustment to the exchange rate as part of the
loan effectiveness conditions. This additional effectiveness condition was negotiated and made
part of the Loan Agreement just prior to Board approval on September 13, 1990, which
required that the Honduras' macroeconomic framework be consistent with the stated
objectives and actions of the Government's structural adjustment program.
43.   Following Board approval, the Bank's staff raised another warning regarding slippage
in the Government's program.4 Since no action had been taken regarding the interbank
exchange rate, more transactions were being diverted to the parallel market. Interest rates
had become highly negative in inflation adjusted terms, thus aggravating the problem of
capital flight.
44.   On October 11, the Government introduced new measures regarding the exchange rate
and interest rates. The BCH raised the interbank exchange rate to L5.5/$ which was roughly
4See Jack Stein, RE: Progress Under the SAL Program, Memo, September 14, 1990.



13
in line with the parallel market rate, and the Government agreed to maintaining the
difference between the interbank and the parallel market exchange rate within a range of 5
percent based on weekly averages. The Government also agreed to impose a freely floating
exchange rate regime by the end of the IMF Stand-by. Ceilings on lending rates for
commerce, consumer and export loans were abolished. Interest rates for the remaining
sectors were increased from 17 percent to 19 percent and were to be reviewed on a monthly
basis. With these announcements and with confirmation that the Congress had ratified the
SAL II agreement, effectiveness was declared in November 1990.
b.    Second Tranche Conditionality
45.   Progress in carrying out the macroeconomic program during 1990-1991 encountered
some weaknesses in the areas of exchange rate and fiscal policy management. Real GDP
grew marginally by only about 1 percent in 1990, reflecting the results of stabilization
measures, of a banana strike, of flooding in agricultural production areas, and of the increase
in oil prices arising from the Persian Gulf crisis. Inflation, as measured by the consumer
price index, accelerated from 9.9 percent in 1989 to 23.3 percent in 1990, and peaked at 34
percent in 1991. However, inflationary pressures proved to be short-lived, attributed mostly
to the one-time maxi-devaluation and by the additional monetization of the fiscal deficit
inherited by the new administration in 1990. The two major policy problems continued to be
the fiscal deficit and the foreign exchange allocation regime. The fiscal deficit reached 8.2
percent of GDP in 1990, while public sector savings was reported as -1.6 percent of GDP,
compared to a target of +0.5 percent. The worse than expected performance of the fiscal
accounts was attributed to delays in implementing customs administration reforms and a
decline in import tax revenue. In addition, delays in adjustment of domestic prices of oil
products resulted in a decline in oil tax revenue relative to GDP. Recognizing these
problems, the authorities introduced some mid-course corrections in 1991 that reduced the
fiscal deficit to 3.3 percent of GDP in that year, well within the target stipulated in the IMF
Stand-by agreement.
46.   Compliance with the IMF program during 1991 was satisfactory. The fiscal deficit
and net international reserves targets were surpassed. Also the Govermnent also eliminated
all debt service arrears with the IDB and the Paris Club.
47.   Compliance with trade policy and foreign exchange management were satisfactory.
Decree 18-90 established a schedule for the reduction in import tariffs from a range of 0 - 90
percent before March 1990 to 5 - 20 percent in January 1992. In February 1991, the BCH
eliminated import permits and instituted a simple statistical registration system for imports.
As of May 4, 1991 all import restrictions on agricultural products were eliminated, and
IHMA ceased issuing statistical registration forms for imports of agricultural commodities.
Regarding a new export incentive system, agreement was reached with the Government that
incentives would cover the following areas: (i) in-bond assembly operations; and (ii)
traditional and non-traditional exports.



14
48.   Actions taken in compliance of the riscal policy reforms were disappointing, as
waivers were required for two of the second tranche conditions: (i) public sector savings; and
(ii) administrative reforms to strengthen capacity to collect taxes. Public sector savings were
-1.6 percent of GDP in 1990, whereas the target was 0.5 percent. However, as explained
above, corrective action was taken to strengthen public sector savings. In addition, the
Government agreed with the IMF to make further adjustments in the investment budget in
order to bring down the overall deficit which had also exceeded the IMF program targets for
1991. With respect to administrative reforms, the Government had agreed to improve
collection of a) domestic taxes through the Ministry of Finance; and b) customs tariffs
through the Customs Bureau. Progress on enhancing customs collections was slow in the
areas of implementation, standardization of procedures and implementation of adequate
merchandise valuation procedures. The Bank agreed to a waiver with the proviso that strict
enforcement of this condition would be employed in the review of the third tranche.
Performance of SANAA and HONDUTEL significantly exceeded the agreed savings target
of a joint surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP in 1990 with an actual surplus of 1.4 percent. This
better than expected outcome was due in large part to adjustments to water and telephone
tariffs in mid-1990 which exceeded the Bank's original recommendations. The Bank
informally provided technical assistance to the water company (SANAA) by preparing a
financial computer package to assess alternative water tariffs.
49.   Agricultural Sector Policy reforms encountered some weaknesses in the
implementation of a rationalization plan for BANASUPRO and LIHMA. A satisfactory
program to implement a price band system through a flexible import tariff system for corn
was submitted to the Bank in September 1991, and was subsequently included in the draft
law of the Agriculture Modernization Law (AML) approved in 1992. In February 1991, the
guarantee price system for basic grains (corn, beans, rice, and soybeans) was eliminated,
followed by similar actions regarding chicken meat, milk, vegetable oils, margarine, wheat
and corn flour. However, price controls were not lifted in the case of low quality ground
coffee and sugar. These commodities were subject to complex trade negotiations among the
Central American countries. A timetable had already been agreed to for liberalizing their
prices; nevertheless, a waiver was technically required although the condition was essentially
met. In view of the program implementation delays caused by these two minor items,
perhaps a more flexible definition of price liberalization should have been used to allow room
for judgement regarding satisfactory compliance. As agreed by the Bank and the
Government during the loan negotiations, an action program for the gradual divestiture of
BANASUPRO called for the relocation of outlets to areas where the needs of the lowest
income groups would be better served. BANASUPRO closed four centers in high income
neighborhoods and opened new outlets only in low income neighborhoods. An action plan
agreed to with respect to IHMA called for the closure and sale of all fixed assets except for
those facilities needed for the maintenance of the strategic reserve. This process began in
June 1990, when three storage facilities were closed. Nevertheless, subsequent action was
slow. EHMA officials interviewed for this report claimed that they were not familiar with
I-IMA's goals under the program. In addition, they claimed that the decision to sell the silos
did not arise until the second tranche review process. As stated in the Loan Agreement, the



15
condition to rationalize IHMA's assets was unspecific. A more specific condition that
referred to the sale of assets could have been incorporated into the Agreement.
50.   Monetary and financial sector reforms were satisfactory, although greater
supervision should have been applied to the implementation of financial system reforms.
Liberalization of interest rate policy was effective. BCH's rediscount rates for agricultural
credits were adjusted in line with other rediscount facilities except for corn and beans, which
were slated to increase by year-end 1991, when the new crop season would get started. A
program to eliminate BCH's directed credit lines was instituted after interpreting the original
conditionality to mean an elimination of credit subsidies by instituting a formula to fix
rediscount rates at non-subsidy levels. The capital adequacy requirement of the banking
system met the loan's criteria; although as explained in paragraph 36, the Superintendent of
Banks did not have the legal authority to enforce this condition. Discussion of the agricultural
financial system's restructuring needs concluded that the first phase should involve the
restructuring and recapitalization of BANADESA, followed by a strategic plan on
BANADESA's role as the government's agricultural lending institution, and in a broad
context, the presentation of a draft law to congress for the reform of the financial sector.
51.   The Government liberalized right away most of the lending rates except on loans for
low-income housing and basic grains, which were liberalized by the end of 1991. Since
deposit rates were already supposed to be freely negotiated by commercial banks, the
elimination of lending rate ceilings paved the way for market determined interest rates.
Nevertheless rates lagged behind inflation rates during 1990-1991. Rates on certificates of
deposits averaged 11.5 percent during 1990, compared to an inflation rate of 23.3 percent;
similarly, interest and inflation rates averaged 16.3 percent and 34.0 percent respectively
during 1991. Finally, interest rates turned positive in inflation adjusted terms in 1992. The
relatively low rates on deposits during 1990-1991 can be explained by two factors: first, a
sudden acceleration in the inflation rate, caused by devaluation cum domestic price
liberalization, that was expected to cool off in a short period of time; and second, by BCH's
high reserve requirements which were compensated at very low interest rates, and thus
significantly increased banks' effective cost of funds, which in turn tried to pass on to their
customers part of the cost of reserve requirements in the form of lower rates on deposits.
52.   The condition to eliminate BCH's directed credit lines (which included rediscounts
and any other type of credit funded with domestic resources) was not viable as written in the
Loan Agreement. Literally, this condition would have caused the Central Bank to seek
repayment of all existing credit lines financed through its own resources. It was subsequently
reinterpreted to mean the elimination of the interest rate subsidy on directed credit lines
through the unification and consolidation of interest rates. An interest rate formula was
agreed upon, with adjustments made on a quarterly basis. Repricing of existing rediscount
facilities involved the signing a waiver for each loan. All rediscount lines were unified
except for the following three special funds: basic grains; social housing construction; and
cooperatives, commercial sector and banks. In addition, subsidized credit lines funded with
external resources had to be frozen at their December 31, 1990 levels. Even though the



16
definition of what constituted a subsidized credit line was not clarified, the Bank was
satisfied with the Government's monetary program for 1991, which showed that the amount
of subsidized credit lines funded with external resources would not exceed the levels of
December 31, 1990.
53.   Progress was made on the administrative reorganization of the rediscount units as
specified in the Loan Agreement. According to BCH officials, the process took about two
years to complete. While the objective of centralized administration was eventually
achieved, the Bank's staff should have been aware of the complex nature of the rediscount
units' reorganization. Delays in disbursement could have been prevented if this condition had
been postponed to the third tranche, or perhaps it should not have been included so that more
attention could be focused on the critical issue of interest rate liberalization.
54.   The loan's conditionality regarding the reorganization of the Government's
agricultural financial system was not sufficiently specific. By placing a limit on the amount
of Government transfers to BANADESA, the program did not directly address the critical
issues of a restructuring of that organization. Because of BANADESA's importance as a
provider of credit to the agricultural sector, perhaps greater attention should have been given
to the development of a reorganization plan as part of the SAL's conditionality. It was not
until the second tranche release review mission that agreement was reached on a plan for
BANADESA. The new strategy consisted of several steps: first, a financial evaluation of the
bank; second, a restructuring of the bank including the cleanup of its largely non-performing
portfolio; and third, recapitalization in the context of a much smaller but better focused
institution. Unfortunately, one of the initial announcements by the Government concerning
BANADESA's reorganization was a policy of debt forgiveness. This dealt a serious blow to
BANADESA's credibility in negotiating with its borrowers. In another disappointing
outcome, the AML had authorized the government to issue up to L250 million in bonds to
finance the bank's restructuring and recapitalization needs; however, these bonds have yet to
be issued. In addition, the AML established the legal framework for the creation of yet
another two financial intermediaries: a Land Trust Fund, and Rural Credit Banks. At a time
when the Government was preoccupied with the financial workout of existing problem
institutions such as BANADESA, the development of more agricultural financial institutions
could result in more of the same problems.
55.   Once the Central Bank ceased extending credit to BANADESA, the flow of credit to
the small agricultural producer was severely impaired. Historically, BANADESA had
functioned as the principal source in the formal sector of financing to small producers.
Commercial banks had lost interest in lending to small producers as a result of the land
reform program which cancelled the right to property ownership, and thus prevented the use
of mortgages, and of controls on interest rates. In the design of the social support
measures, more emphasis could have been placed on some alternative mechanism for
providing financing to small producers in the agricultural regions, perhaps through the
commercial banking system.



17
56.   The capital adequacy condition of the banking system was found to be in
conformance with the minimum of 5 percent of net assets. Net assets were defined as total
assets less cash and due from banks. Since the re-classification of risk assets was specified
as a third tranche condition, the results of the capital adequacy test may not have reflected
the full extent of loan portfolio risk. The fact that a number of commercial banks have an
affiliate finance company, which is not subject to supervision, should have been noted in the
staff's analysis as additional source of risk to the banks via their holding company, which
was not being properly measured by the specified capital adequacy ratio.
57.   Government compliance with social sector reforms was satisfactory. The Government
submitted a satisfactory program to the Bank which was presented to the Consultative Group
Meeting held in Paris in December 1990. Agreement was reached with the Government on
broad indicators for evaluating social sector programs. This established the basis for IDA
support for FHIS.
c.    Third Tranche Conditionalitv
58.   The approach of the November 1993 presidential elections detracted the Government's
attention from structural adjustment efforts. A predominant political cycle, which is typified
during the first two years by positive economic actions which tend to derail during the latter
two years as a new electoral process takes hold, appears to have been one of the main
obstacles to program sustainability. The combined conditionality from SAL II, SAC, ESAC,
and AGSAC possibly contributed to adjustment fatigue. This problem was compounded by
the already weak performance noted in some areas during the second tranche review, for
which more stringent conditionality, was expected to be applied for the third tranche.
59.  In terms of the macroeconomic framework, the Bank and the IMF worked closely
on the proposed stabilization measures and medium-term reforms to ensure consistency as
well as proper sequencing of policy refonns. A Stand-by arrangement for SDR 30.5 million,
which was approved in July 1990, was completed satisfactorily in February 1992, and all
planned purchases were made under the program. In February 1992, the IMF approved a
Compensatory Financing Facility of SDR 44 million for export shortfalls experienced in
1990-1991. Following agreement on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and a detailed first
year program in early June, an Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of SDR 40
million was approved in July 1992. The first year review of the ESAF program was
satisfactorily completed in July 1993, but only after the fiscal deficit targets had been revised
due to insufficient adjustment efforts by the Government.
60.   Compliance with trade policy and foreign exchange management was satisfactory.
Beginning January 1, 1992, as stipulated by Decree No. 18-90 dated March 8, 1990, a new
import tariff structure was put in place for which the maximum tariff is not to exceed 20
percent and the minimum tariff is not to be less than 5 percent of the dutiable value of the
imported item. All import surcharges for agricultural products were also eliminated,
regardless of the product's origin. The phasing out of temporary export taxes on traditional



18
exports was completed by December 1991, as stipulated by the same decree.
61.   With respect to the implementation of a new export incentive system, this condition
was substantially met. The Government introduced substantial improvements in the export
incentive system through the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, elimination of
export licenses, passage of a modem Investment Code, authorization of Industrial
Production Zones, and approval of the Agricultural Modernization Law. These initiatives
contributed to removing the anti-export bias of past economic polices, facilitated
administrative procedures, and provided property security for new export oriented
investments. As required in the action plan for the introduction of a new export incentive
system, furnished prior to second tranche release, the Government submitted a draft
legislation to Congress. However, this legislation had still not been acted upon at the time of
the third tranche release review, which would imply that a new incentive system had still not
been put into effect as specified in the Loan Agreement. Nevertheless, once Congress
approves the legislation, the new mechanism would become effective immediately.
62.   The draft export incentive legislation addressed the major distortions and loopholes in
the current system, most notably, costly fiscal subsidies and operation of multiple admission
regimes. Under the proposed legislation, income tax exemptions as well as sales tax rebates
for exporters would be eliminated, a single system for exempting import duties on inputs
and capital goods would be implemented, although the draw-back regime could still be used
by companies that did not want to participate in the Temporary Import Regime (RIT). Once
the Law is approved, its implementation will call for the reinforcement of monitoring and
enforcement procedures by both Customs and the Ministry of the Economy. Customs bears
the responsibility for managing the collection of duties, yet modernization efforts have not
produced the desired results in terms of enforcement and timely processing of transactions.
Deficiencies in customs administrative reforms had required the issuance of a waiver for
second tranche release. The administration of the RIT also brings together the Ministries of
Economy and Finance in terms of implementation, enforcement and supervision. In
particular, the application of import duty exemptions to producers that sell both in the
domestic and in the export markets involved the maintenance of separate financial statements
for export related activities. It was reported that the Tax Administration Department of the
Ministry of Finance did not have adequate auditing and examination procedures of importers'
financial statements to assure the integrity of the export incentive scheme. The proposed
legislation has been held back in part due to strong opposition from exporters who do not
want to lose the income tax benefits of the present RIT program.
63.      Actions taken in compliance with tax reforms were met, although fiscal
performance deteriorated significantly during 1993. As agreed, the Government submitted a
draft tax reform law in January 1993 which included a zero sales tax rate for exports and the
granting of full credit to purchases of capital goods from the sales tax chain. On the positive
side, non-financial public sector savings in 1991 exceeded the agreed 1.7 percent of GDP
target by a comfortable margin. Expenditures for the 1991 Public Investment Program were
also found to be within the agreed parameters. Nevertheless, the Government's finances



19
worsened considerably during 1992 as a result of much greater than anticipated increases in
investment expenditures, and less than expected improvement in the finances of government
enterprises. Discussions with the IMF resulted in corrective action to put the program back
on track. However, fiscal performance deteriorated sharply during the first half of 1993 due
to lower public sector savings and higher capital expenditures. As explained in the prior
section on Loan Design, the Bank should have structured the condition on Government
savings as an ongoing target, and not limiting it to 1991.
64.   The program of administrative reforms to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Finance to collect taxes was acceptable. In particular, measures to strengthen domestic tax
collection, customs tax collection, and control over the functioning of the RIT were deemed
successful. However, customs operations had been found to be deficient in the prior tranche
release, and the third tranche evaluation reported continued delays in the computerization of
customs. Government officials interviewed for this report acknowledged that the Ministry of
Finance did not yet have the ability to reduce tax evasion or to improve collections.
Improvements in tax collections were modest.
65.   With respect to Agricultural sector policy reforms, significant delays were
encountered in the rationalization programs for BANASUPRO and IHMA. A flexible tariff
system applicable to corn and rice was put into effect by the Government in January 1992.
The other major policy action in the agricultural sector dealt with the rationalization
programs for BANASUPRO and IRMA. After considerable delays, the Government initiated
the closure of all BANASUPRO outlets in middle- and upper-income neighborhoods. The
remaining outlets were to be located in poor neighborhoods, and to be managed by private
entrepreneurs under lease arrangements with the Government. Progress in implementing
IHMA's rationalization plan was delayed by legal difficulties, management weakness, and a
lack of clear explanation from the Bank regarding the divestiture of IHMA's fixed assets.
66.  IHMA's officials interviewed for this report noted that the Bank's condition of
rationalizing IHMA's operations was unspecific, and that these objectives became clear only
after several Bank missions. Nevertheless, prior support programs under U.S. PL-480 had
already brought up the issue of privatizing IHMA. With AID financing, the valuation process
began in 1992. Also, IHMA was empowered to sell directly to small producers. Producers
could organize into cooperatives and the assets would be offered to them at 2/3 of valuation.
Once this stage was completed, they moved on to public auction. If no offers were made
after two consecutive calls for bids, then IHMA could negotiate directly with potential
buyers. At the time of this report, 46.6 percent of the storage facilities (based on capacity)
had been transferred to the private sector, and all of them through direct negotiations.
Perhaps the method of direct negotiations may not have been the appropriate procedure,
without some pre-established procedures on how to adjust prices during negotiations, buyers
may have succeeded in taLking down the price below what could be obtained under normal
market conditions. The largest facility, the San Pedro Sula grain warehouse which alone
accounts for about 40 percent of total storage capacity, has yet to be privatized. However,
even though the Bank's intentions of privatizing IRMA's assets were not clearly expressed



20
from the start, and recognizing delays encountered through IHMA's own resistance to the
reorganization efforts, progress has been encouraging.
67.   Monetary, and financial system reforms were satisfactory, with performance
exceeding targets in the areas of interest rate policy and BCH reforrn of rediscount credit
policies. Some weakness was encountered in the review of the commercial banking asset
classification and loan loss provisioning. Interest rate liberalization, as per the agreement,
was complied with ahead of schedule. In August 1991, interest rate ceilings on commercial
bank lending operations were abolished; and in April 1992, restrictions on the frequency with
which commercial banks could adjust interest rates were also abolished. The third tranche
condition had called for a quarterly revision of interest rate ceilings. In this regard,
Government actions clearly went beyond the loan's requirements. Accordingly in September
1992, the rediscount interest rate applied to credits for corn and bean production, which are
extended overwhelmingly to small farmers, was increased to the level of the Central Bank's
rediscount interest rates for other credits.
68.   As agreed for second tranche release, the program for eliminating directed credit lines
took the form of adjusting the rediscount rate on all credit lines to be consistent with a
specified formula based on commercial banks' CD rate. The BCH continued to adjust the
rediscount interest rate according to this formula. The Government also submitted legislation
to Congress that would permit the operation of an auction system for setting the rediscount
interest rate on credit lines channelled through the Central Bank. Subsidized credit granted
through the BCH and funded with external resources was effectively limited to the low-
income housing sector and was considerably less than the amount existing on December 31,
1990.
69.   Strengthening of the commercial banking system was to ensue from a new loan
portfolio classification supported by commensurate increases in the provisioning for losses,
while meeting the minimum capital adequacy standards of 5.5 percent of net assets. In
November 1990, the Superintendency of Banks issued new instructions on asset classification
and provisioning, in accordance with criteria agreed between the Government and the Bank.
The Superintendency was to supervise the loan classification and loan loss provisioning
workout by commercial banks. However, the extent of supervision was not adequately
specified. In fact, the Superintendency lacked proper regulatory authority to supervise the
implementation of this condition. Staff should have been more sensitive to these institutional
constraints and raised the issue early on during the loan design stage. Perhaps a more
productive approach would have been to provide technical assistance in the form of external
auditors to work with the Superintendency in the evaluation and classification of the banking
system's loan portfolio including incorporation of the new procedures in the examiners'
handbook.
70.   Progress in implementing Social sector reforms was satisfactory. The Government
expanded its employment and nutrition assistance programs targeted to the neediest sectors of
the population through the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) and Family Assistance



21
Program (PRAF), both with IDA financial support. Progress achieved during 1992 and
planned activities for the period 1993-95 were deemed satisfactory.
G.   Relationship with the Government's Stabilization Policies and the IMF Programs
71.   As indicated in para. 59, IMF has strongly supported the Government's efforts in
stabilizing the economy. In reality, the Government's structural adjustment program hinged
on a successful short-term economic stabilization strategy. A number of the loan's
conditions, such as the public sector savings target, were aimed at establishing a stable
economic environment that would trigger greater savings and investment by the private
sector. The Government's efforts in this area were supported by ongoing IMF programs.
Nevertheless, one of the weaknesses of the Government's stabilization policies was the lack
of continuity in the management of fiscal policy. This problem had already been encountered
during implementation of SAL I, when the previous Government failed to agree with the
IMF on a stabilization program. Election year politics had in that case also contributed to
policy backtracking and unacceptable increases in public spending during 1989. This political
cycle was responsible for a substantial increase in the fiscal deficit in 1993. As long as
election year politics continues to dominate fiscal policy, the ability to achieve sustainable
structural reforms will be compromised.
72.   One of the notable achievements of the SAL in the context of stabilization measures
was the introduction of an interbank currency market, followed by the liberalization of
domestic interest rates. The inflationary impact of the devaluation of the Lempira in the
interbank market was contained in the short-term. During 1990-1991 inflation averaged 28.4
percent mostly resulting from the currency devaluation, but dropped to only 8.8 percent in
1992. After stabilizing inflation, the Government was able to liberalize interest rates with
minimal disruption to the financial markets.
H.   Sustainability of the Program
73.   The lack of continuity in fiscal policy combined with weak institutional capabilities to
implement reforms compromised the sustainability of the program. While the scope of the
program was overly ambitious, it was undermined principally because of disappointing
results in the critical areas of fiscal policy, and weaknesses in the financial and agricultural
sectors.
74.   As per the President's report, there were three main risks associated with the loan.
First, Government implementation of the adjustment program could fall short of what was
necessary to lay the basis for sustainable growth. Second, the level or timeliness of external
capital flows could fall short of what was required to restore financial balance. And third, the
Government could need technical assistance to define and implement many actions or
otherwise risk delaying implementation of the loan. As the implementation experience and
consequent results amply demonstrated, the principal obstruction to the loan's sustainability
was the laxity in pursuing an effective stabilization program. At the same time, the pressure



22
to approve the operation in order to meet the debt rescheduling deadline may have
compromised the Bank's objectivity in deciding on the loan's feasibility as structured.
75.   In retrospect, fiscal policy slippage was prevalent throughout the loan's experience.
As explained in the section on implementation, the relative size of the fiscal deficit in 1993
exceeded the 1989 figure. A few days after the November 1993 Presidential elections, the
Government instituted across the board price controls, which threatened to undermine the
reform program's credibility. Insufficient legislative action to support the government's main
reform initiatives, especially in the areas of tax reform, export promotion, and financial
sector reforms, put in question the sustainability of current reform initiatives.
76.   Despite the shortcomings, the loan made important progress in several areas that
should facilitate future attempts to get back on a stabilization/structural reforms track.
Foreign exchange management has improved considerably with the introduction of the
interbank market. Nevertheless, it is somewhat unusual that the Constitution still recognizes
the rate of L2/$ as the official exchange rate. Interest rate liberalization has been conducive
to increased savings and reduced capital outflows. Government action to reform the official
exchange rate could bolster investor confidence in the management of economic policy. The
reorganization of the BCH's rediscounting mechanism has paved the way for future monetary
policy reforms that could ensure the autonomy of the Central Bank in the management of
monetary policy. Institutional weakness in the use of open market operations should be dealt
with through more technical assistance. The likelihood of serious liquidity problems in the
financial system should prompt the passage of new banking legislation that would diminish
the potential for a future financial crisis.
I.    Program Results, Government Ownership, and Overall Evaluation
77.   Program Results.   The results of SAL II were encouraging in terms of exchange
rate management, domestic interest rates and growth of non-traditional exports. The impetus
to private savings came from higher interest rates relative to inflation, and from stable
exchange rate expectations. Investment in export-oriented industries was evident from the
strong growth of non-traditional exports. However, progress towards greater public savings
and efficiency of the public sector was disappointing. For instance, the NFPS deficit for
1993 was about 8.5 percent of GDP, which is almost the same as in 1989, the year before
the SAL became effective.
78.   Measures to improve commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of resources
through interest rate liberalization were effective. The liberalization of interest rates produced
a favorable impact on banks' net income. Nevertheless, without fundamental reforms to
modernize the financial system, the banks' reported earnings hide a significant systematic
risk, arising from a lack of regulatory controls, which was not adequately addressed by the
SAL. The policy dialogue maintained throughout the program was instrumental in eventually
influencing the Government to submit a new banking reform legislation to Congress,
although it has not yet been approved. The proposed Law contains a number of reforms that



23
are essential for the proper implementation of the conditions contained in SAL I and, more
importantly, for the modernization of the banking system with the proper elements of safety
and soundness.
79.   Finally, agricultural sector reforms exhibited some weaknesses although significant
progress was achieved towards the latter part of the program. Measures to improve
productivity were limited basically to pricing policies which are likely to have a delayed
impact on productivity. Most of the products affected by the elimination of price guarantees
were basic grains. Production of these commodities has increased significantly during 1990-
1993. BANADESA had been one of the principal sources of credit to the small and medium-
sized producer. The near collapse of BANADESA's activities left a vacuum in the financial
system which was not compensated by other financial intermediaries. As explained in
paragraph 63, some consideration should have been given to a special line of credit to
agriculture to be administered by commercial banks but with Government guarantees.
80.   This analysis focuses on the short- and medium-term results of the loan based on the
period 1990-1993. The full benefits of structural changes may take some time to materialize;
and even then, it may not be possible to separate the structural adjustment effects of SAL II
from other structural adjustment operations, or from other factors which may in the future
induce structural changes if they have not already done so. As expected, the measures taken
prior to Board presentation in March 1990, had a dampening effect on economic activity in
the short-term. High inflation induced by the devaluation of the Lempira in the interbank
market and the downturn in traditional exports sapped the real purchasing power of
consumers. Real GDP growth was a marginal 0.1 percent in 1990. Once inflationary
pressures subsided, the liberalization of both domestic prices and the international trade
regime produced a healthy recovery in 1991. During 1992-1993, the private sector-led
economic expansion received additional impetus from the Government's aggressive
expenditures policy. Real GDP growth averaged 5 percent per annum during those two
years.
81.   The program's favorable results were concentrated in the areas of trade and interest
rate policy, and the exchange rate regime. The opening up of the international trade sector
improved domestic activity by enhancing the availability of imported inputs and capital goods
and in reducing the anti-export trade bias. Non-traditional exports have responded quite
favorably to these initiatives. The strongest growing export areas have been fruits and
vegetables and assembly of textile products. Non-traditional merchandize exports averaged
9.5 percent growth per annum during 1990-1992. Assembly industries (maquiladoras) have
attracted significant amounts of foreign investment, although there is little information on the
actual results in terms of their export volume.
82.  Interest rates and monetary policy management have improved noticeably as a result
of the program. The Government's actions to eliminate ceilings on lending rates contributed
to greater resource mobilization by the financial system, although weakness in the regulatory
and supervisory environment could result in financial system liquidity problems. Interest



24
rates on certificates of deposits (CD's) were significantly negative real rates, in inflation
adjusted terms, through the first half of 1991. As inflation dropped during the second half of
the year, CD rates increased moderately, thus resulting in significantly high real rates
through 1992 and the first half of 1993. With the upturn in inflation during the second half
of last year, real rates have once again fallen. As mentioned earlier, the liberalization of
interest rates has revealed an institutional weakness in the management of monetary policy.
The BCH has become increasingly reliant on the reserve requirement rate to control liquidity
in the financial system. This creates a problem for banks' asset/liability management. The
consolidation of the BCH's rediscount operations under a uniform market related interest rate
marked an important step in refocusing the Central Bank's role as manager of monetary
policy, and away from its prior lending activities through the use of the rediscount facilities.
83.   One of the most disappointing results of the program, and yet one of the critical
elements for sustainability, was the fiscal reform package. When the loan was signed in
1990, the Govemment had inherited a fiscal deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP from its
predecessor. By the expiration of its term in January 1990, the Government had left behind a
fiscal deficit of more than 10 percent of GDP. While significant progress was experienced
during 1991-1992 in reducing the fiscal deficit, the approach of the 1993 elections, combined
with a loss of Government support for the program, once again unleashed massive public
works programs. Tax reforms were only moderately successful in strengthening the
Government's revenue base.
84.   Government Ownership of Conditionality. Borrower ownership of structural reforms,
which is a pre-requisite for successful adjustment lending, was somewhat weak in several
areas. Upon taking office in 1990, the Government had stressed the importance of renewing
the adjustment process for the country's political and social stability. The Government's Plan
had clearly identified the principal areas for reform. The structural adjustment loan was thus
appropriately designed to support the Government's structural adjustment program.
Nevertheless, Government staff involvement with the Bank during loan appraisal appear to
have been limited to an inner nucleus of Government representatives which were relatively
new to their positions. Staff at the technical level that were later assigned to implement the
program were not included in the initial phase of program design. While the individuals
involved in the preparation and negotiations clearly understood and supported the
Government's views regarding the need for structural reforms, and shared its willingness to
implement a successful program, perhaps discussions should have been expanded to
incorporate the views of Government officials who had a better understanding of the
bureaucratic machinery, and who could thus have provided useful input in the design of
specific conditions.
85.   Since the Government was dealing with structural as well as sectoral adjustment
programs with several multilateral agencies simultaneously, they may have been
overburdened by extensive policy conditionality which, while mostly complementary, may
have overwhelmed the Government's capacity to implement them. In addition to the SAL,
Honduras was in the process of implementing an ESAF with the IMF, an agricultural sector



25
loan with the IDB, and an ESF with USAID. Each of these programs contained a list of
reforms, which in some cases could have resulted in potential conflict in terms of economic
policy management. For example, SAL II called for the liberalization of interest rates, while
the ESF specified a reduction of the reserve requirement rate, yet when taken together both
measures could have placed the BCH in a difficult position regarding management of
monetary policy: if the monetary authority's goal was to support higher interest rates, in the
absence of a working open market operation, the Central Bank would have to raise the
reserve requirement rate. Undoubtedly, the multi-faceted multi-agency adjustment workout
helped to cover much more ground than a single reform program; however, greater
coordination between the agencies should be encouraged, specially with respect to the details
of program conditionality.
86.   Some of the weaker areas of the SAL were indicative of a lack of support from
Congress. Several key legislative proposals were never acted upon. The Government's
unwillingness to make unpopular decisions was also indicative of insufficient commitment to
the overall objectives of the program.
87.   Overall Evaluation. Numerous accomplishments of SAL H in the areas of foreign
exchange, monetary and trade policy management have set the stage for increased savings
and investment in export-related activities. However, significant weaknesses in fiscal policy
and financial system organization and supervision could adversely affect the sustainability of
the program (see paragraphs 51 - 78). Some weakness was also noted in the implementation
of administrative reforms of the public sector. At the time of loan appraisal, Government
assurances of their commitment to reforms may have triggered an understandably optimistic
assessment by the Bank of the Government's ability to implement a comprehensive program.
The Government in turn was not forthcoming in implementing certain fiscal policy reforms,
and was slow in responding to some of the agricultural and financial sector reforms.
88.   Sustainability of the program is dependent on Government efforts to get stabilization
policies back on track. The Government's commitment to reforms has been questioned by
recent developments which appear to undermine the program objectives. The relative size of
the fiscal deficit in 1993 was greater than in 1989, the year prior to the initiation of the
program. Immediately after the November Presidential elections, the Government imposed
price controls on basic consumer goods. Both of these actions partially reversed earlier
positive steps toward structural reforms. However, if Government stabilization policies are
resumed, the successful reforms already implemented in SAL II would no doubt facilitate the
establishment of a supportive environment for private sector development.
89.   The principal accomplishments of SAL II include the following:
*     Introduction of greater flexibility in the exchange rate regime.
*     The implementation of the social support program through the distribution of food
coupons to targeted families (PRAF) and through the social investment projects



26
(FfIS) which was instrumental in alleviating social conditions and in identifying the
neediest sectors of the population.
*     Liberalization of domestic interest rates contributing to increased savings. The
application of a market based interest rate formula to the BCH's rediscount facilities
eliminated an important element of subsidies in public sector lending.
*     Establishment of a uniform tariff band of 5 - 20 percent opening up the economy to
increased competition while providing an incentive to investment in export oriented
activities based on the country's comparative advantage.
*     Progress in the divestiture of IHMA assets, the closure of BANASUPRO distribution
centers, and the restructuring of BANADESA marking a significant first step toward
increasing public sector efficiency.
*     Increased flexibility in exchange rate management combined with reforms of interest
rate and trade policies stimulating growth of non-traditional exports.
J.    Bank and Borrower Performance
a.    Bank Performance
90.   Bank persistence in resolving the arrears problem expeditiously was instrumental in
normalizing Honduras' access to multilateral financing. Initially, more attention seemed to
be paid to the goal of normalizing Honduras' debtor relations than to their ability to
implement the reforrns contained in the program. The Bank appropriately identified the
structural weaknesses in economic policies. However, the staff should have been more
attentive to the Government's limited institutional capabilities to carry out reforms during the
loan appraisal process by designing a less comprehensive program with a smaller set of
conditionality. The identification mission should have sought out more participation by
Government officials in at technical levels in order to get more input on the implementation
of program conditionality.
91.   Prior to Board presentation, the staff was articulate in expressing concerns over
Government backtracking on the March 1990 package of reformns. Specifically, the exchange
rate policy was flagged as being out of line with the agreed upon objectives. Quick staff
response to the resolution of this problem led to the introduction, just prior to Board
presentation, of exchange rate adjustments as part of loan effectiveness conditions.
92.   Loan supervision was satisfactory in terms of staff time and frequency of supervision
missions. However, Government officials interviewed for this report were somewhat critical
that they were being asked different things by successive Bank missions regarding the same
conditions. As discussed in the section on loan design, some of the conditions were couched
in vague language i.e. rationalization of IHMA. The Bank should have been more proactive



27
during the initial stage of loan implementation to communicate concrete steps that the
Government was expected to take. If further analysis of the problem was required, as in the
case of IHMA and BANASUPRO, then the condition in the policy matrix should have been
stated as: preparation of a strategic plan outlining possible options to restructure and
downsize operations of IHMA and BANASUPRO, instead of rationalization. If the Bank was
already convinced of the need to sell off IHMA's assets, then this should have been stated
explicitly. As stated in the section on loan design, in view of the large number of conditions,
another option would have been simply to postpone these conditions to a follow-up operation.
93.   One of the strengths of Bank performance was the close working relationship with the
IMF and the IDB. The SAL was co-financed with an agricultural sector loan from the IDB.
Simultaneous missions from each of the agencies collaborated on many aspects of loan
implementation.
b.    Borrower Performance
94.   Some of the problems encountered during loan implementation were due in part to the
Government's weakness in the area of stabilization policies, combined with institutional
constraints in the ability to implement reforms. President Callejas' Government convinced the
Bank that it was willing to adjust the fiscal imbalance and to lay the groundwork for
structural reforms. The March 1990 package of reforms demonstrated the Government's
willingness to pursue comprehensive reforms. However, the resurgence of the fiscal deficit
starting during the second half of 1992 and into 1993 wiped away a number of the positive
steps that had been taken in terms of tax increases and control over expenditures. Lack of
legislative support for tax reform, export incentives and financial system liberalization dealt a
blow to the sustainability of the program.
95.   One of the strengths of the Government's performance was the implementation of
trade policy, exchange rate regime, and monetary policy reforms. BCH was diligent in
implementing interest rate liberalization policies, as well as the reorganization of the
rediscount facilities. These reforms effectively downsized the Central Bank's role as a direct
lender to the economy. Significant progress was made in the restructuring of BANADESA,
although at a much slower pace than anticipated. However, the Government has not yet
formulated a clear strategy on BANADESA's future.
K.   Lessons Learned
96.   Based on the loan's summary evaluation, several lessons can be learned from the
results of this operation.
*     When faced with the need to eliminate arrears, or to normalize the status of non-
performing loans as in the case of Honduras, the Bank should consider structuring a
SAL, with a narrower scope, and then to follow-up with a more comprehensive
program. The Bank might also consider a multi-year SAL but with greater



28
conditionality in the second and third tranches. The pressures to eliminate Honduras'
arrears should have argued in terms of a more cautious approach in setting Board and
Second Tranche conditions.
*     Government commitment is essential to the success of the program. The lack of
continuity in Government stabilization policies combined with weak institutional
capabilities to implement reforms put in question the sustainability of the program.
With the hindsight of SAL I's disappointments, the lack of a good track record in
policy reforms should have alerted the Bank to take a more cautious approach with
this operation. The approach of the November 1993 presidential elections detracted
the Government's attention from structural adjustment efforts, and policy reversals
casted some doubt on the Government's commitment.
*     The design of structural adjustment programs should put greater emphasis on the
stabilization component even if it means incorporating only a limited number of
structural reform conditions. Honduras' predominant political cycle, which is typified
during the first two years by positive economic actions, followed by policy slippage
during the latter two years as a new electoral process takes hold, appears to have been
one of the main obstacles to program sustainability.
*    Broader participation of the Government officials, who would eventually implement
the program, in program design is essential. While key policy decision makers were
involved in the design of the program, perhaps greater participation by their
respective deputies or other experienced Government officials during loan preparation
would have provided valuable input in terms of loan design. The individuals involved
in the SAL's preparation and negotiations clearly understood and supported the
Government's views regarding the need for structural reforms, and shared its
willingness to implement a successful program; nevertheless discussions might have
been expanded to incorporate the views of Government officials who had a better
understanding of the bureaucratic machinery, and who could thus have contributed to
the design of specific conditions.
*     When weakness in institutional reform capabilities is identified, particularly after
problems are encountered in a previous operation, such as SAL I, greater emphasis
needs to be placed on technical assistance. SAL II covered a lot of ground for policy
reforms, but, in contrast, contained little in the way of technical assistance. Some of
the areas that could have benefitted from technical assistance include: (i) fiscal policy,
TA program for tax administration and enforcement; (ii) monetary policy, TA
program to strengthen the Central Bank's capacity to manage monetary policy with
emphasis on open market operations; (iii) banking system, TA program to assist
banking supervisors in the evaluation and classification of the banking system's loan
portfolio, as well as a more comprehensive program to reinforce the
Superintendency's institutional capabilities.



29
0     The design of the loan should be more specific with respect to conditionality than was
the case for Honduras. For example, regarding the rationalization of BANASUPRO's
and IHMA's operations, government officials interviewed for this report mentioned
that they were not clear on the meaning of the term rationalization. Furthermore, if
the Bank was already convinced of the need to sell off IHMA's assets, then this
should have been stated explicitly. As stated in the section on loan design, in view of
the large number of conditions, another option would have been simply to postpone
these conditions to a follow-up operation. Wording of loan conditionality should be
more precise in order to avoid future misunderstandings and thus implementation
delays.
*     Careful examination of evidence is essential for proper supervision of loan
implementation. The Superintendency's supervision of bank loan re-classifications
may not have been sufficient to meet the proposed objectives. To the extent possible
the Bank should rely on specialized auditors, or more field visits to ascertain the
validity of borrower compliance; and when necessary, recommend technical assistance
to support the Government's capacity to implement as well as enforce policy reforms.
3     The loan contained too many conditions. In retrospect, it may have been preferable
to have reduced the number of conditions in the program. Within the trade policy
component, the condition dealing with a new export incentive system might have been
postponed to a follow up operation. At the time of loan appraisal the most important
obstacle to export development was the exchange rate and tariff restrictions. Fiscal
policy conditions dealing with public sector deficit and current savings could have
been coordinated with the IMF, and thus reduce the number of conditions subject to
Bank scrutiny. While sale of IHMA assets was necessary in view of agricultural price
liberalization, the rationalization of BANASUPRO could have been postponed to a
follow up SAL or sectoral operation. Conditions dealing with the Central Bank's
rediscount operations could have been simplified to one condition on adjusting interest
rates to levels compatible with market rates. The condition on the reorganization of
the BCH's administration of rediscount facilities could have been postponed to a
follow up operation. At the same time, the commercial bank's conditionality should
have been limited to the implementation of new regulations on asset classification;
and another condition dealing with the passage of new banking legislation should have
been considered.



30
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE GOVERNMENT'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Evaluation Summary
97.   Structural Adjustment Loan II (SAL II) was designed to support the structural
adjustment program introduced by the Government of Honduras in 1990 to rectify the
problems associated with SAL I and to gain access to fresh resources with which to attend to
the country's external debt obligations. Even though it has to be recognized that there were
design weaknesses in the fiscal, financial, foreign exchange, and trade measures incorporated
in the program, the general results of the operation can be considered satisfactory - firstly
because the majority of the measures proposed were largely carried out, and secondly
because of their positive contribution to the establishment of conditions conducive to private
investment, the restructuring of production, economic integration, and elimination of the
previously prevailing anti-agriculture and anti-export biases.
98.   Among the factors that militated against full-scale achievement of program objectives
were: (i) too many sectors were targeted and as a result too many conditions were imposed,
making efficient and timely monitoring and evaluation difficult; (ii) limited participation by
key implementing institutions in the initial stages of the program cycle; and (iii) failure to
provide for the kind of technical assistance during implementation that would have ensured
program success. In addition, other difficulties, inherent in the country's particular social,
economic and political circumstances, presented themselves.
99.   The experience gained from the whole SAL II design and implementation process, as
regards both its achievements and its limitations, should be taken into careful consideration
when similar future programs are being formulated and executed.
B.   Program Implementation and Results
a.    Trade and Foreig!n ExchanLge
100.  Implementation: The measures making up this program component were carried
out satisfactorily, except for introduction of the new system of export incentives. The
Government formulated a preliminary draft of the legislation required and remitted it to the
Congress in March 1993. Although debate of the bill was not completed by the end of that
year, the new Government continues to regard it as a high-priority matter.
101.  The most controversial element in the component was the accelerated process of tariff
reform established by Decree 18-90. Import duties were reduced from the maximum of 90%
under the pre-program protectionist policy to a rate of 20% under the new free market
policy. The reduced relief in tariff levels was offset by the depreciation of the local currency
and by surcharges which are now being gradually eliminated.



31
102.  The new exchange rate management system kept pace with the country's changing
monetary circumstances. Liberalization of the exchange rate in June 1992 required a strict
regulatory frame-work that would not contribute to the appearance of speculative bubbles or
widening of buyer and seller spreads. Its only beneficial effect was expansion in such non-
traditional export categories as shrimp and melons and in assembly activities.
103. Result: The package of measures which the program called for helped eliminate the
former anti-export bias by introducing a new foreign exchange management system,
simplifying the bureaucratic procedures associated with the import and export of goods,
providing a legal framework for the market attractive enough to draw both foreign and
national investors on equal conditions, and establishing industrial processing zones very
successfully. In addition, it enabled Honduras to lead the Central American integration
process, by negotiating a common external tariff of 20%.
b.    Agriculture
104.  Implementation: Execution of the series of reforms proposed for the agriculture
sector is considered satisfactory. The results obtained paved the way for negotiation of a
new agriculture sector adjustment operation, which is currently being implemented and
consists of comprehensive reform measures.
105.  As far as the BANASUPRO and IHMA rationalization programs are concerned,
despite initial delays ascribable to the vagueness of the term "rationalization" and to the fact
that the two institutions did not participate in the early stages of program design and
implementation, significant advances have been achieved so far toward this end. For
instance, all silos began the privatization process, with the result that half of all grain storage
capacity passed into private hands. The largest silo, located in San Pedro Sula, is currently
the subject of direct negotiations. BANASUPRO closed down some of its facilities located
in middle- and higher-income areas, opening others in previously unattended low-income
districts.
106. In the case of BANADESA, it was necessary to formulate an action plan that would
allow the agricultural production sector as a whole access to formal financing arrangements.
The Government recognizes that even when this was incorporated in the agriculture sector
adjustment program the conditions associated with it were not clear.
107. Result: Achievements were limited.
c.    Financial and Monetary Sector
108.  Implementation: The conditions associated with this component of the program were
satisfactorily met.



32
109.  Results: Given the lack of a sufficiently well developed market for open operations,
the liberalization of interest rates and the new foreign exchange management system left the
Central Bank of Honduras in a weak position where administration of its monetary policy is
concerned, since the only instrument it can rely on to control the money supply is the legal
reserve requirement.
110. In addition to the measures introduced, the Government, with the aim of modernizing
the country's financial system and regulating the many finance companies that have sprung
up in recent years, sent to Congress the draft of its proposed Private Financial Institutions
Act, debate and final passage of which is expected to take place in 1994.
d.    Fiscal Policy
111.  Implementation: All tax-system reforms grew out of those provided for in Decree
18-90, although public-sector savings goals were added. The public savings goal was not
reached, however, despite the fact that the HONDUTEL and SANAA goal was exceeded as
a result of increases in the rate schedules of these two service agencies.
112.  Progress was made in introducing the program of reforns in tax administration.
113. Results: Although the public sector succeeded in maintaining an acceptable financial
position throughout 1991 and much of 1992, fiscal discipline deteriorated badly in 1993.
The government deficit in 1993 wiped out all the taxation and spending-containment efforts
of the previous years. A fundamental cause of the deficit was the over-ambitious nature of
the investment program carried out.
114.  Primary current savings rose, creating a budget surplus equivalent to 6.6% of GDP,
an indicator which suggests that the Government exercised a certain fiscal discipline in the
use of current revenues and that the election-year deficit was mainly the result of
abandonment of that discipline in investment and capital transfer programs, since public
consumption dropped from 13% of GDP in 1989 to 9% in 1993. The primary net deficit
rose to a manageable level of 0.7% of GDP.
e.    Social Sector Reforms
115.  Implementation: The Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) and the Family
Assistance Program (PRAF) were satisfactorily set up, and were also amply supported by
other Bank-financed operations, namely FIfS I and FHIS II.
116.  Results: The Government's social support programs, chiefly PRAF and FHIS, were
instrumental in offsetting the adverse social effects of the economic adjustment program on
the neediest population groups, by generating temporary employment opportunities and
providing direct subsidies for households in these groups.



33
C.   Overall Results and Prospects
117.  In general, most of the measures called for under SAL II were carried out as planned.
118.  Even though accurate evaluation of the results of SAL II will be possible only in the
medium and longer terms, there are already certain factors which allow a preliminary
analysis of the present and anticipated results of its execution.
119.  The main positive effects of the reforms introduced were: (i) a recovery in overall
production, which grew from a state of stagnation in 1990 at an annual rate close to 4%
between 1991 and 1993; (ii) an increase in overall investment, mainly because of activity in
the public sector, which expanded at an annual real rate of 25 %; (iii) a reduction in the size
of the public sector because of privatizations; (iv) an improvement in delivery of essential
direct services to various segments of the national community (FHIS, PRAF); and (v) in the
arena of trade and foreign exchange management, elimination of a previous anti-export bias,
a change which, in conjunction with liberalization measures, has led not only to a
rechanneling of production resources toward such higher-yielding activities as non-traditional
exports and the expansion of industrial processing zones, but also to laying of the foundations
for more effective participation by Honduras in the process of regional integration and for
the country's incorporation into the world economy.
120.  The main adverse effects of SAL II were: (i) the value of agricultural and
manufacturing output grew less in proportional terms than that of construction, financial
services, and trade - in agriculture there was a decline in real terms in the production of
bananas, coffee, and sugar, while in manufacturing producers of footwear, beverages,
foodstuffs, chemicals, and textiles suffered from both their limited competitive ability and the
consequences of trade liberalization; (ii) the anticipated impact of private investment was not
as significant, at barely 2% expansion a year, as expected, despite the new atmosphere of
liberalization; (iii) the trade gap and the budget deficit continue to upset the balance of the
economy seriously; (iv) inflationary forces are at work because of fluctuations in the
exchange rate, the limited reserves available to fund the import of goods, and significant
shortfalls in basic grain supplies, with attendant price speculation; and (v) the labor market
has become more complex, as apparent unemployment and under-employment rates have
worsened, especially since 1992.
D.    Conclusions
121. Among the difficulties associated with both the design and execution of SAL II were
what are considered the major ones of the over-ambitious nature of the whole program,
which targeted too wide a range of concerns, and the initially unforeseen implementation
problems ascribable in retrospect to the too limited role which some key institutions played in
the early stages of the process. Furthermore, SAL II was carried out at the same time as a
series of other operations which, because they also involved economic reform measures,



34
made it difficult at certain points to coordinate the implementation of program components.
122. A conclusive evaluation of the impact of SAL II will be possible only in the medium
term, when the effects of the measures introduced will be clearer and more easily quantified.
This is particularly true of such overall program objectives as increased productivity in
private sector agriculture, for instance.
123.  The introduction of price controls in the period immediately following the presidential
election of November 1993 arose out of a very particular and time-specific situation, strictly
the result of political and electoral circumstances. The goods subjected to such controls have
already been released from them. Currently, the prices of the goods making up the basic
basket are determined by a process of consultation, in which all the sectors involved
participate.
124. When future operations similar to SAL II are being planned, everything possible
should be done to make certain that: (i) the negotiating parties ensure that the new program
is designed to take greater account of the economic and political circumstances prevailing at
the time so that the measures agreed upon can be kept consistent in scale and scope with the
country's real capacity to implement them; and (ii) the operating institutions involved are
fully aware of the nature of the measures agreed upon and of the extent to which they
themselves will be directly affected, so that implementation of the measures can be facilitated
and their sustainability assured.



35
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. LOAN POSITION
Ori                                         Bs~ainDisbursed  Canceled  Repaad Oi
As Of 12/S1193
Loan 3257410    90           90             0              0              90
B. KEY PROGRAM DATA
Oriainal Loan Dates          Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum        03/29/90                      03/29/90
Letter of Development Policy  06/02/90                     06/02/90
Negotiations                 08/07/90                      08/07/90
Board Approval               09/13/90                      09/13/90
LoanJCredKt Agreement        09/17/90                      09/17/90
Effectiveness                11/14/90                      11/14/90
Loan Closing                 06/30/92                      12/31/93
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY94
Planned                              90
Actual                               90
Actual as % of Planned               100%
Date of Final Disbursement:          08/18/93
STAFF INPUT
(Manweeks)
FY 89       FY 90       FY 91      FY 92       FY 93       FY 94
Preparation      01.3        78.4        00.0        00.0        00.0        oo.o
Appraisal        00.0        16.1        00.0        00.0        00.0        00.0
Negotiations     00.0        00.0        29.0        00.0        00.0        00.0
Supervision      00.0        00.0        75.8        50.1        13.7        00.0
Sub-Total        01.3        94.5        104.8       50.1        13.7        00.0



36
MISSION DATA
fowbTYer      No. of Wdb    No. of Puo     Sf1 W"bb      Das of Rapo
Prqwarua     05/90-06/90    2             9              13            06/04/90
A4ppr,       05/90          2             12            24             06/30/90
Siapsrvi  1    02/91        2             8              12            02/26/91
mper,idg u    04/91-05/91    2            6              15.6          05/15/91
sqpmnb 'am  05/92           2             6              12            05/19/92
SqimwTh  IV   08/92-09/92    1            5             5              09/16/92
supricbo V    01/93         0.45          2              1.2           01/15/93
SWTpibM VI   06/93          1             4             4.2



37
STANDARD ANNEES
HONDURAS -KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual .                                                     Projecded
:1930,:.. 1989       1990      1991      1992      1993:    199    -.1995-         1996      1999       2002
REAL GROWIt RAT1S:
Grosm Domestic Product (GDP)                              0.7%      4.3%       0.1%      3.0%      4.9%       4.0%      3.5%       4.0%      4.0%       4.0%      4.0%
Gross Domestic Income (GDY)                               0.6%      17%        0.3%      2.1%      3.8%       9.7Y.     4.4%       4.7%      4.3%       4.4%      4.0%
REAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATE&
GrossDomestic Product(GDP)                               -2.6%       1.4%     -2.9%      0.1%      2.0%       1.1%      0.5%       1.1%      1.2%       1.2%      1.2%
Total Consmwption                                         5.1%       1.%      4.9%     -0.6%       1.3%      5.5%     -2.5%       0.5%      0.2%       1.6%      1.0%
Private consumption                                       4.5%      2.3%      -2.6%      1.6%      0.S%       5.3%      0.0/       0.1%     40.4%       1.6%      1.0%
DEBT INDICATORS:
Total DOD (Million USS) /I                             1.471.4   3,385.1   3,697.1   3,360.1   3,572.5   3,703.0   4,000.7   4,154.9   4,248.S   4.454.0   4,395.5
TotalDODlEMcocG&S/a.                                    152.1%    311.9%    351.1%    317.5%    321.2%    321.6%    316.3%    299.3%    282.2%    236.2%    190.5%
TotalDOD/CurTrntGDP (%)/A.                               59.3%     31.4%    106.2.   103.7%    109.9%    111.8%    126.0%    122.3%    116.7%    100.6%          12.1%
Debtsvice(LT+RAF+STintrest)(&fllionUSS)lb.               207.6     203.3      411.9     344.6     374.4      376.0     421.2      431.6     451.7      413.3     396.2
Debtservice/ExposO&S(%)                                  21.5%     19.2%      39.1%     32.6%     33.7%      32.7%     33.3%      31.1%     30.0%      21.9%     17.2%
Dcbtsrvice/CurrcntGDP(%)                                  3.4%      5.0%      11.8%     10.6%     11.5%      11.4%     13.3%      12.7%     12.4%       9.3%      7.4%
Inwrest(LT+IDF+ST)(Million USS)/b.                       120.2     111.1      177.7     165.3     170.3      164.7     177.3      186.2     190.3      175.0     157.6
Intercst(LT+DAF+STYExpcusG&S(%)                          12.4%     10.2%      16.9%     15.6%     15.3%      14.3%     14.0V.    13.4%      12.6%       9.3%      6.t%
Interest (LT+RAF+STYCurr=t GDP (%)                        4.8%      27%        5.1%      5.1%      5.2%       5.0%      5.6%    . 5.5%       5.2%       4D0%      2.9%
NATIONAL ACCOLTNTS (as. *shr eorCDP)
Total Investment                                        24.3%      19.1%      23.0%     24.6%     25.6%     25.9%      24.3%      24.S%     25.4%      24.9%     24.9%
Public faxed                                             9.3%      5.7%       6.6%      7.1%      9.6%       9.6%      3.1%       8.1%      3.1%       7.5%      7.5%
PrivateuLxcd/c.                                         15.5%     13.4%      16.4%     17.5%     16.1%      16.3%     16.2%      167%      17.3%      17.4%     17.4%
Nstional Savinp                                          11.9%      9.6%      12.9%     13.6%     14.2%      128%      15.8%      174%      19.0%      21.4%     23.0%
Public                                                   2.7%     -0.6%       2.3%      4.6%      6.7%      2.9%       6.0%/.     6.1%      5.9%       61%       6.3%
Private                                                  9.2%     30.2%      10.6%      3.9%      7.4%      9.9%       9.8%      11.3%     13.0%      15.3%     16.t%
ForcignSavinp                                            12.9%      9.5%      30.1%     11.1%     11.4%      13.1%      3.5%       7.4%      6.4%       3.5%      1.9%
ICOR                                                       9.0       7.1       43.1      39.7      39.9      41.6       42.1        5.3       5.2        5.4       5.4
NON FINANCIAL PUBUC SECTOR (u * sarl ofCDP)
TotulCuTentReceipts                                     20.1%      220%      24.6%    2V.4%       27.3%     22.3%      220%      21.9%      21.6%     21.5%      21.5%
TotalCurrentExpendituses                                 17.4%     22.6%     22.3%      22.8%     20.6%      19.4%     16.0%      15.8%     15.7%      15.4%     15.2%
Public Savings                                            2.7%     .06%        2.3%      4.6%      6.7%       2.9%      6.0%       61%       5.9%       6.1%      6.3%
CapitalE3qpn & Net Lnzding                               12.1%      7.0%       7.5%      8.3%      9.5%      9.6%       8.1%       t.1%      3.1%       7.5%      7.5%
Overall Balance                                          -9.3%     -7.5%      -5.0%     .3.5%     .2.0%      -6.7%     *2.1%      -2.0%     -2 2%     -1.4%      -1.2%
Central Bank Losses
Consolidated Public Balance /d.                            ..         ..         ..       ..         ..        ..         ..        ..         ..
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS:
Exports GNFS (real gowth mre)                            -5.5%      1.9%       0.2%     .3.0%     16.3%      -0.5%      4.4%       4.7%      4.6%      4.0%       4.3%
Export GNFSlCVrentGDP /a.                               36.9%      24.3%     23.4%      31.0%     32.8%      34.5%     39 5%      40.4%     40.8%     42.0%      42.5%
ImportsGNFS(reall owth rue)                              7.4%       2.1%      -9.7%      4.4%      6.0V.    14.1%      -72%        4.6%      3.7%      3.8%       4.0%
Imports GNFS/CwTcntGDP /e.                              45.4%      23.6%     32.3%      35.2%     37.7Y%    41.6%      41.3%     41.4%      41.1%     40.9%      40.%
Import Elaucity                                           11.0       0.5      -99.7       3.5       1.2        3.5      -2.0        1.2       0.9        1.0       1.0
Resource Balance/Current GDP /e.                         4.6%       -3.8%     -3.8%     -4.2%     -4.9%      -7.1%      -1.9%     -1.0%     4.3%        1.1%      1.6%
Cum.AccountBalancetCuerentGDP le.f                      -14.5%     -9.2%    -10.4%    -12.5%    -13. 7%   .13.1%    .*.5%         *7.4%     -6.4%     -3.5%      .1.9%
TcrrnsofTradelndex(1989-100)                              96.4     100.0       90.5      90.8      78.1       80.0      82.9       85.3      86.2       89.3      90.0
PRICES AND EXCHANCG RATL
ConsumerPriceIndex(AnnualAverage)                         53.3     100.0      123.3     165.2     179.7     201.2      214.5     224.1      233.1     2521       270.9
Nominal Exchange Rae (C/USS)                              200       2.97      4.26       5.44      5.64      6.52       7.50       7.62      7.69      7.69       7.69
Real ExchungRateIndex(I989100)                            87.3     100.0      122.9     119.3     119.1      123.5     137.9      137.9     137.9      137.9     137.9
GDP (millionUSS):                                         2,4t2     4.157      3.4S1     3,240     3.252      3.311     3,176      3,398     3.640     4,429      5,354
la. Hstoncal date through 1992 ae from World Bank DRS. Projection yean bued on DRS pipeline plus new lending
/b In accrual basis. "Lr-long term debt, *Sr lt tamn debL
/c. Includes chages in Inventoy.
/d Overall NFPS Balance plus Centnl Bank Loeaes.
/c. GDP converted to SUS using Atlas mettodolog.
/ t The discrepancy between the curn aeceVGDP A ftiali seavingistosica years, is due to the f6ct tat the BOP is bued on the Adas ER whereas the NU Accb u   thae ofcal ER.



Table 1: HONDURAS: NATIONAL ACCOUN4TS BY EXPENDITURE
(Milliao of 1978 lampirm)
1l 977   197S     1979     1960   t: :1981   i;i:-     i701962   i 1963  1964   :- :196;0--T350 1966    1967  19  1969  1990: it 7 71 9 1  19  92
Grnu Donuetic Expenditure    3756.0   4041.2   4043.0   4191.0   4066.0   3125.0   3303.0   4166.0   4244.0   4323.0   4516.0   4924.0   5072.0   5031.0   5241.0   5543.0
Co_ptioo                     2929.0   3023.2   2923.0   3233.0   3259.0   3296.0   3246.0   3469.0   3504.0   3T72.0   3S09.0   3930.0   4121.0   4043.0   4141.0   4303.0
Private                     2506.0   2606.2   2543.0   2742.0   2762.0   2216.0   2774.0   2920.0   29M9.0   3164.0   3212.0   3279.0   3452.0   3464.0   3621.0   3756.0
Public                      423.0    417.0    440.0    491.0    497.0    420.0    472.0    429.0    515.0    563.0    S97.0    651.0    669.0    579.0    520.0    547.0
Gos Domnetic Inve-tma         327.0   1025.0   1060.0   952.0    307.0    529.0    557.0    697.0    740.0    596.0    777.0    994.0    957.0    9t2.0    1100.0   1240.0
Fixed bwveat                765.0    932.0    902.0    942.0    733.0    649.0    660.0    750.0    726.0    591.0    630.0    764.0    920.0    t77.0    279.0   1075.0
Private                    471.0    577.0    575.0    572.0    423.0    292.0    272.0    285.0    322.0    326.0    379.0    503.0    622.0    570.0    553.0    604.0
Public                     294.0    355.0    333.0    370.0    315.0    351.0    33t.0    465.0    392.0    265.0    251.0    261.0    292.0    307.0    326.0    471.0
Change in Stocka             62.0     93.0    152.0    10.0       69.0    -120.0   -103.0   -53.0      14.0      5.0     147.0    230.0    37.0    111.0    221.0    165.0
Rerource Baance              -242.0  -.19.2    -4.0    -125.0    103.0    226.0    270.0    t4.0        124.0    137.0    143.0    23.0      23.0    135.0    20.0       39.0
ExporttofGoods ANFS         1133.0   1366.0   1591.0   1506.0   1549.0   1391.0   1401.0   1395.0   1500.0   1527.0   1564.0   1550.0   1629.0   1637.0   1630.0   1744.0
IrnportofGoodsANFS          1321.0   1555.2   1595.0   1631.0   1446.0   1105.0   1131.0   1311.0   1316.0   1390.0   1421.0   1527.0   1546.0   1502.0   1550.0   1705.0
Capacitytolmport             1225.5   1366.0   1411.2   1341.7   1179.4   1020.9   972.2   1011.9   1070.2   1274.6   1207.4   1306.6   1303.0   131S.1   1271.3   1310.1
GDPatMarketPriccs            3502.0   3259.0   4039.0   4066.0   4169.0   4111.0   4073.0   4250.0   4422.0   4460.0   4729.0   4947.0   5161.0   5166.0   5321.0   5522.0
Tenna of Trade Adjustment     92.5      0.0    -179.2   -164.3   -369.6   -370.1   -422.2   -333.1   -429.2   -252.4   -356.6   -243.4   -326.0   -31S.9   -353.7   -433.9
GDY                          3600.5   3859.0   3359.3   3901.7   3799.4   3740.9   3650.2   3266.9   3992.2   4207.6   4372.4   4703.6   4235.0   4247.1   4962.3   5143.1
GNY                          3466.5   3702.0   3649.3   3709.7   3631.4   3494.9   3492.2   3696.9   3221.2   3977.6   4135.4   4472.6   4633.0   4610.1   4763.3   5012.1
GDS                           579.0    835.3   1056.0   233.0    910.0    315.0    227.0    721.0    924.0    733.0    920.0   1017.0   1040.0   1123.0   110.0   1279.0
Net Factor Services          -134.0   -157.0   -210.0   -192.0   -162.0   -246.0   -15S.0   -170.0   -177.0   -230.0   -237.0   -225.0   -202.0   .237.0   -199.0   -136.0
NctCuwrcntTranafen/l           2.3      11.0     12.0     11.4     12.0      11.6     11.5     11.7     13.7      14.4     17.0     33.6     47.7      83.4     26.0     94.3
GNS                           453.3    639.2    252.0    652.4    754.0    530.6    630.5    622.7    760.7    517.4    700.0    325.6    225.7    969.4   1067.0   1237.3
GNP                          3374.0   3702.0   3829.0   3274.0   4001.0   3265.0   3915.0   4030.0   4251.0   4230.0   4492.0   4722.0   4959.0   4929.0   5122.0   5446.0           00
(Ratios)
ICOR (5-yr mov. avg)          0.2      0.3       4.2      9.0      10.4      7.5      3.6      3.4      -2.5     0.2       3.1      7.1      7.1      43.1     39.7     39.9
Import Elasticity             1.7       1.3      0.5      3.4     -4.5      17.0    -2.5       3.7      0.1      7.2       0.4      1.6      0.3     -29.4      1.1      2.0
MDSR(GDS,GDY)                 0.0       1.0     220.6    -5.3      -0.2      1.6     -0.1     40.2       1.1     -0.9      1.1      0.3      0.2      6.9      0.5       0.5
MNSR (GNS,GNY)                0.0       1.0     -3.2     -3.4     -1.3       1.3    -37.6    -0.3       1.1      -1.6      1.2      0.4      0.4      -3.7     0.6       0.7
(Ra Aual Gruwth Rates)
GDP                          10.4%    10.0%     4.7%     0.7%     2.5%      -1.4%    -0.9%    4.3%     4.2%      0.7%     6.0%     4.6%     4.3%      0.1%     3.0%     4.9%
Cauauption                   12.7%     3.2%    -13%      8.4%     0.2%      1.1%    -1.5%     6.9%      1.0%     6.4%     2.2%     3.2%     4.9%     -1.9%     2.4%     3.9%
Private                     14.0%     4.0%    -2.4%     7.2%     0.7%      2.0%     -1.5%    7.4%     0.3%      5.9%     1.5%     2.1%     5.3%     0.3%      4.5%     3.7%
Public                      6.0%    -1.4%      5.5%     11.6%     1.2%    -3.4%    -1.7%     3.6%     5.3%      9.3%     6.0%     9.0%     2.2%    -13.5%   -10.2%    5.2%
GCss Domnetic ricestmnt      34.7%    23.9%     3.4%     -9.6%    -15.2%    -34.4%    5.3%    25.1%     6.2%    -19.5%    30.4%    27.%    -3.7%      3.2%     11.3%    12.7%
Fixed Investment            17.3%    21.2%    -2.6%     4.4%    -22.2%    -12.1%    1.7%     13.6%    -3.2%    -12.6%    6.6%    213%    20.4%    -4.7%       0.2%    22.3%
Private                    10.3%    22.5%    .0.3%    0.5%    -26.8%   -29.6%    -2.7%      4.2%    15.1%    -0.6%     163%    32.7%    23.7%    -S.4%    -3.0%      9.2%
Public                    30.7%    20.7%    -6.2%     11.1%    -14.9%    11.4%    10.5%    19.3%    -14.4%   -33.4%    -5.3%    4.0%     14.2%     3.0%     6.2%     U.5%
EXportofGoods&NFS           -0.3%    20.6%    16.5%    -5.3%     2.9%    -10.2%    0.7%      4.4%     7.5%      1.f%     2.4%    -0.9%     5.1%     0.5%    -0.4%      7.0%
InporttofGoods& NFS         12.0%    12.6%     2.6%     2.3%    -11.3%   -23.6%    2.4%      15.9%    0.4%      5.6%     2.2%     7.5%     1.2%     -2.2%     3.2%     10.0%
Memo:
Population(rnillions)/2     3.132    3.235    3.342    3.452    3.566    3.684    3.S05    3.931    4.060    4.194    4.333    4.476    4.602    4.744    4.224    5.022
Population Grwth Rate        3.3%     3.3%     3.3%      3.3%     3.3%     3.3%      3.3%     33%      3.3%     3.3%     3.3%     3.3%      3.0%     3.0%     3.0%     3.0%
RealGDPpercapita            1120.2   1192.9   1208.7   1177.9   1169.2   1116.1   1070.4   1021.3   1090.5   1063.3   1091.5   1105.3   1120.1   1029.0   1029.6   1110.2
Real GDP per capib grtiL rate    6.9%  6.5%    1.3%    -2.5%      4.7%     -4.5%    -4.1%     1.0%     0.9%     -2.5%    2.6%     1.3%      1.3%     -2.2%    0.0%     1.9%
Consumption per capit        935.3    934.6    292.7    936.6    914.0    894.2    853.1    22Z6    263.0    222.6    279.1    S72.1    294.4    352.3    247.9    255.9
GCwihofpercapita conaumptio   9.1%    -0.1'%'   -4.5%    4.9%     -2.4%    -2.1%    -4.7%     3.5%    -2.2%     3.0%    -1.1%    40.1%      1.9%     -4.7%    -0.5%    0.9%
Domesticexpendituresdeflator    92.2    100.0    116.7    132.0    142.3    155.1    16S.2    171.0   1I1.1    180.3    12S.1    195.7    214.5    261.4    332.9    36ZS
1/ Real Net Currcnt TranmfeF ame taken fran curent lempiras and deflated using the domestic expenditures deflator.
2/ 1923 was a ceuno year, population figurca prior to 1922 whcre esisnated cm a basis of a 3.3% growth rate. Pop. 1929- ars estimnted using a 2.95% rate.
Source: Eastudic Econ6micos, BCIL 1972-92 BCH worksheet of Aug. 1993.



39
Table 2: Honduras - Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector
(Summary Balance Sheet)
1980     1981    .1982      1983      1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992/p
(Millions Current Lempiras)
Total Revenues                1031.2   1073.1   1126.S   1198.5   1400.7   1646.1   1712.7   1890.3   2079.4   2284.4   3103.3   4517.0   5199.8
CurrentRevenues              1030.4   1069.5   1117.2   1186.9   1388.4   1602.6   1675.0   1874.3   2068.7   2269.6   3085.3   4481.6   5063.7
Tax Revenues                721.0    725.1    747.9    839.4   1020.9   1124.7   1127.0   1253.8   1372.8   1515.2   2123.8   2984.2   3392.1
Other Revenues /1           309.4    344.4    369.2    347.5    367.5    478.0    548.0    620.5    695.9    754.4    961.5   1497.4   1671.6
CapiLat Revenuns               0.8       3.6      9.7      11.5     12.3      43.5     37.7      16.0     10.7     14.8      18.0     35.4    136.1
TotAl Expenditurec-           1510.3   1555.7   1797.3   1939.3   2122.3   2220.2   2193.7   2271.0   2509.3   2894.3   3700.5   5067.7   5782.0
Current Expenditure          891.1    977.3   1075.2   1181.4   1287.6   1510.0   1620.3   1765.6   1931.2   2167.2   2760.6   3710.1   4025.9
OpentingExpenditurn         741.7    811.5    868.6    924.2   1010.8   1113.0   1187.3   1298.7   1429.2   1648.0   1933.7   2115.0   2396.8
Intert Payments             111.1    120.2    166.4    185.3    214.2    291.1    332.5    396.8    423.5    428.2    628.1   1310.4   1285.1
Other Current                38.3     45.6      40.2     71.8      62.5    105.8    100.5      70.1     78.5      91.0    198.8    284.7    344.0
Captital Expenditures        619.2    578.4    722.0    758.0    834.8    710.2    573.4    505.4    578.2    727.1    939.9   1357.6   1756.1
Fixed Investment            489.7    453.1    506.9    610.3    725.1    633.9    467.0    400.2    455.6    578.2    883.9   1240.2   1745.3
OtherCapital /2             129.5    125.3    215.2    147.7    109.7       76.3    106.4    105.2    122.5    148.9       56.0    117.4      10.8
Overall Deficit (neg. -surplus)  479.1    482.6    670.4    740.9    721.7    574.0    481.0    3823      427.2    609.9    565.1    536.9    791.0
Primary Deficit (neg. surplus)  368.1    362.4    504.0    555.5    507.5    282.9    148.5    -14.5        3.7    181.7    463.0   -773.5   -494.1
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992/p
(As Percent or GDP)
Total Revenues               20.09%   19.03%    19.40%    19.47%   21.10%   22.62%   22.49%   22.76%   22.48%   22.11%   24.75%   27.64%   28.07%
Current Revenues            20.08%    18.97%    19.24%    19.29%   20.92%   22.02%   21.99%   22.57%   22.36%   21.96%   24.61%   27.42%   27.34%
Tax Revenues              14.05%   12.86%    12.88%    13.64%    15.38%    15.45%   14.80%   15.10%   14.84%    14.66%    16.94%   18.26%   18.31%
Other Revenues /           6.03%    6.11%    6.36%      5.65%    5.54%    6.57%    7.19%    7.47%    7.52%    7.30%    7.67%    9.16%    9.02%
Capital Revenues             0.02%    0.06%    0.17%    0.19%    0.18%    0.60%    0.49%    0.19%    0.12%    0.14%        0.14%    0.22%    0.73%
Total Expenditures           29.43%   27.59%   30.95%   31.51%   31.97%   30.50%   28.80%   27.35%   27.12%   28.01%   29.52%   31.01%   31.22%
Current Expenditure.        17.36%   17.33%    18.52%    19.20%    19.40%   20.74%   21.27%   21.26%   20.88%   20.97%    22.02%   22.70%   21.73%
Operating Expenditures    14.45%   14.39%    14.96%    15.02%    15.23%   15.29%   15.59%   15.64%   15.45%    15.95%    15.42%   12.94%   12.94%
Intert Payments            2.16%    2.13%    2S7%    3.01%    3.23%    4.00%    4.37%    4.78%    4.58%    4.14%          5.01%    8.02%    6.94%
Other Current              0.75%    0.81%    0.69%      1.17%    0.94%     1.45%    1.32%    0.84%    0.85%    0.88%      1.59%    1.74%    1.86%
Captital Expenditurn        1207%    10.26%    12.43%   12.32%   12.58%    9.76%    7.53%    6.09%    6.25%    7.04%    7.50%    8.31%    9.48%
Fixed Investment           9.54%    8.03%     8.73%    9.92%    10.92%    8.71%    6.13%    4.82%    4.93%      5.60%     7.05%    7.59%    9.42%
Other CapitAl /2           2.52%    2.22%    3.71%    2.40%      1.65%     1.05%    1.40%    1.27%    1.32%     1.44%    0.45%    0.72%    0.06%
Ovenll Deficit (neg. - surplus)  9.34%    8.56%    11.55%    1204%    10.87%    7.89%    6.32%    4.60%    4.62%    5.90%    4.51%    3.29%    4.27%
PrimaryDeficit (neg.= suplus)    7.17%    6.43%    S.68%    9.03%    7.64%    3.89%    1.95%   -0.17%    0.04%     1.76%   .0.50%   -4.73%   -2.67%
1980     1981  - 1982       1983     1984      1985     1986    1987       1988    :1989      1990     1991      1992/p
(Millions 1988 Lempiras)
Total Revenues                1527.8   1483.6   1491.8   1483.3   1677.0   1872.6   1875.3   2012.8   2079.4   2133.5   2391.3   2750.3   2930.3
Current Revenues             1526.6   1478.6   1479.0   1469.0   1662.3   1823.1   1834.1   1995.8   2068.7   2119.6   2377.4   2728.8   2853.6
Tax Rcvenues               1068.2   1002.5    990.2   1038.9   1222.4   1279.4   1234.0   1335.0   1372.8   1415.1   1636.5   1817.0   1911.6
OthCr Revenues /1           458.5    476.1    488.8    430.1    439.9    543.7    600.0    660.7    695.9    704.6    740.9    911.7    942.0
Capital Revenues                1.2      4.9     12.8      14.3     14.7      49.5     41.2      17.0     10.7      13.8     13.9     21.6      76.7
Total Expenditures            2237.7   2150.8   2379.3   2400.3   2541.0   2525.6   2402.0   2418.2   2509.3   2703.1   2851.5   3085.6   3258.4
Current Expenditures         1320.3   1351.2   1423.5   1462.2   1541.6   1717.7   1774.2   1880.0   1931.2   2024.0   2127.2   2259.0   2268.8
Operating Expenditures     1098.9   1121.9   1149.9   1143.9   1210.3   1266.2   1300.0   1382.9   1429.2   1539.1   1490.0   1287.8   1350.7
IntcrestPayments            164.5    166.2    220.3    229.4    256.5    331.2    364.1    422.5    423.5    399.9    484.0    797.9    724.2
OtherCurrent                 56.8     63.1      53.2     88.9      74.8    120.4    110.1      74.6     78.5      85.0    153.2    173.3    193.9
Captital Expenditure         917.4    799.6    955.9    938.1    999.5    807.9    627.9    538.2    578.2    679.1    724.3    826.6    989.6
Fixed Investment            725.5    626.4    671.0    755.3    868.1    721.1    511.3    426.2    455.6    540.0    681.1    755.1    983.5
Other Capital /2            191.9    173.2    284.8    182.8    131.4       86.8    116.5    112.0    122.5    139.1        43.2     71.5      6.1
Overall Deficit (neg. surplus)  709.9    667.3    S87.6    917.0    864.1    653.0    526.7    407.1    427.2    569.6    435.5    326.9    445.8
Primary Deficit (neg. 'urplus)  545.3    501.0    667.2    687.6    607.6    321.8    162.6    -15.4        3.7    169.7    -48.5   -471.0   -278.4
No.t Rel dc c- td uang GDP defor.
I/ nCld  opeurs suphkc of NFPEc.
2. tncludart net lending.
Sour= Baico C=ntnl de Hondurus Minuteno de Hcnends. IMF and Wodd Bank Calculations



40
Table 3: Honduras - Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector
Revenues
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987  7   1988      1989      1990      1991      1992/p
Revenues by Tvae
(millions of Lempiras)
Tax Revenues                    721.0    723.1    747.9    839.4   1020.9   1124.7   1127.0   1253.3   1372.8   1515.2   2123.8   2984.2   3392.1
Income Tax                     229.9    179.3      198.0    190.3    234.2    240.6    250.3    298.3    340.8    367.0    430.7    623.7    863.2
Property Tax                     6.1       6.8       7.0       7.0       8.0       8.8       8.5      10.4      IZI       14.4      15.7      20.1     23.7
Sales Tax                      182.7    196.4    239.4    234.4    293.0    326.3    334.1    370.2    415.6    458.7    690.2    952.3    1159.4
Export Taxes                   128.4    113.6       93.0      77.8      87.3      92.5     102.0      94.3      65.2      65.7    217.2    244.6    150.9
Import Taxes                   149.7    198.5    178.0    201.5        258.8    316.6    304.5       348.8    348.3    389.0    497.9    691.1         803.6
Other                           24.2      30.5      32.5     128.4    139.6    139.9    127.6    131.8         190.8    220.4    272.1      452.4    391.3
Non-Tax Revenues                216.8    251.8    260.8       171.0    176.1    210.1    305.4        352.3     386.2    409.7    418.5       545.4    530.3
Central Governnment             55.6      51.6      46.8      55.0      51.0      59.4    138.5      155.3     191.5    173.8    147.4    172.3         71.4
Rest of General Govt           161.2    200.2    214.0       116.0    125.1    I50.7    166.9    197.0         194.7    235.9    271.1    373.1       458.9
Operatiun Surplus of NFPEa       87.4      89.5      97.2    167.0      172.0    252.0    242.3       267.8    309.1    334.3    533.4    938.3    1137.6
CurrentT-ansfen                   5.2       3.1      11.2       9.5      19.4      15.9       0.3       0.4       0.6      10.4       9.6      13.7       3.7
Total Cutrent Revenues         1030.4   1069.5    1117.2    1186.9   1388.4   1602.6   1675.0   1874.3   2068.7   2269.6   3085.3   4481.6    5063.7
(As Percent ofTotal Current Revenues)
Tax Rvenues                   69.97%    67.80%    66.95%    70.72%    73.53%    70.18%    67.28%    66.89%    66.36%    66.76%    68.84%    66.59%    66.99%
Income Tax                   22.31%    16.76%    17.72%    16.03%    16.S7%    15.01%    14.94%    15.92%    16.47%    16.17%    13.96%    13.92%    17.05%
PropertyTax                   0.59%S    0.64%     0.63%     0.59Y     0.58%     0.55%     0.51%     0.55%     0.58%     0.63%     0.51%     0.45%     0.47%
Sales Tax                    17.73%    18.36%    21.43%    19.75%    21.10%    20.36%    19.95%    19.75%    20.09%    20.21%    22.37%    21.25%    22.90%
Export Taxes                 12.46%    10.62%     8.32%     6.55%     6.29%     5.77%     6.09%     5.03%     3.15%     2.89%     7.04%     5.46%     2.98%
Import Taxes                 14.53%    18.56%    15.93%    16.98%    18.64%    19.75%    18.18%    18.61%    16.84%    17.14%    16.14%    15.42%    15.87%
Other                         2.34%     2.86%     2.91%    10.82%    10.06%     8.73%     7.62%     7.03%     9.22%     9.71%     8.82%    10.09%     7.73%
Non-TaxRevenues               21.04%    23.54%    23.35%    14.41%    12.68%    13.11%    18.23%    18.80%    18.67%    18.05%    13.56%    12.17%    10.47%
Central Government            5.40%     4.82%     4.19%     4.63%     3.67%     3.71%     8.27%     8.29%     9.26%     7.66%     4.78%     3.84%     1.41%
Rest ofGenerl Govt           15.64%    18.72%    19.16%     9.77%     9.01%     9.40%     9.96%    10.51%     9.41%    10.39%     8.79%     8.33%     9.06%
Operating Surplus of NFPEs      8.49%    8.37%     8.70%    14.07%    12.39%    15.72%    14.47%    14.29%    14.94%    14.73%    17.29%    20.94%    22.47%
Current Transfers              0.50%     0.29%     1.00%     0.80%     1.39%     0.99%     0.02%     0.02%     0.03%     0.46%     0.31%     0.31%     0.07%
(As a Percent or GDP)
Tax Revenues                   14.05%    12.86%    12.88%    13.64%    15.38%    15.45%    14.80%    15.10%    14.84%    14.66%    16.94%    18.26%    18.31%
Income Tax                    4.48%     3.18%     3.41%     3.09%     3.53%     3.31%     3.29%     3.59%     3.68%     3.55%     3.44%     3.82%     4.66%
PropertyTax                   0.12%     0.12%     0.12%     0.11%     0.12%     0.12%     0.11%     0.13%     0.13%     0.14,%    0.13%     0.12%     0.13%
Sales Tax                     3.56%     3.48%     4.12%     3.81%     4.41%     4.48%     4.39%     4.46%     4.49%     4.44%     5.51%     5.83%     6.26%
Export Taxes                  2.50%     201%      1.60%     1.26%     1.32%     1.27%     1.34%     1.14%     0.70%     0.64%     1.73%     1.50%     0.81%
Irnport Taxes                 2.92%     3.52%     3.07%     3.27%     3.90%     4.35%     4.00%     4.20%     3.76%     3.76%     3.97%     4.23%     4.34%
Other                         0.47%     0.54%     0.56%     2.09%     2.10%     1.92%     1.6S%     1.59%     2.06%     2.13%     2.17%     2.77%     2.11%
Non-Tax Revenues                4.22%    4.46%     4.49%     2.78%     2.65%     2.89%     4.01%     4.24%     4.17%     3.96%     3.34%     3.34%     2.86%
Central Government             1.08%    0.91%     0.81%     0.89%     0.77%     0.82%     1.S2%     1.87%     2.07%     1.68%     1.18%     1.05%     0.39%.
Rest ofGeneral Govt           3.14%     3.55%     3.69%     1.88%     1.88%     2.07%     2.19%     2.37%     2.10%     2.28%     2.16%     2.28%     2.48%
Operating Surplus ofNFPE's      1.70%     1.59Y     1.67%    2.71%     2.59%     3.46%     3.18%     3.22%     3.34%     3.23%     4.25%     5.74%     6.14%
Currernt Trasfers               0.10%    0.05%     0.19%     0.16%     0.29%     0.22%     0.00%     0.00%     0.01%     0.10%     0.08%     0.08%     0.02%
(Real 1988 Lempirus, Index 1988-100)
Tax Revenues                     77.8      73.0      72.1      75.7      89.0      93.2      89.9      97.3     100.0    103.1    119.2    132.4    139.2
Income Tax                      99.9      72.7      76.9      69.1      82.3      80.3      80.4      93.2    100.0    100.6        97.4    111.4    142.7
Property Tax                    74.7      77.7      76.6      71.6      79.2      82.7      76.9      91.5     100.0    111.1    100.0    101.1    110.4
Sales Tax                       65.1      65.3      76.3      69.8      84.4      89.3      88.0     94.8      100.0    103.1    128.0    139.5       157.2
ExportTaxes                    291.8    240.9    188.8       147.7    160.3    161.4    171.3        154.0     100.0     94.1    256.7    228.4    130.4
Import Taxes                    63.7      78.8      67.7      71.6      89.0    103.4       95.7     106.6     100.0    104.3    110.2    120.8       130.0
Other                           18.8      22.1      22.6      83.3      87.6      83.4     73.2      73.5      100.0    107.9    109.9    144.4       115.6
Non-Tax Revenues                 83.2      90.1      89.4      54.8      54.6      61.9      86.6      97.1     100.0     99.1      83.5      86.0      77.4
Central Government              43.0      37.2      32.4      35.5      31.9      35.3     79.2       86.4    100.0      84.8      59.3      54.8      21.0
Rent of General Gov't          122.7    142.2    145.5        73.7      76.9      88.1     93.9      107.7    100.0    113.2    107.3    116.7    132.8
Operating Surplus ofNFPE'        41.9      40.0      41.6      66.9      66.6      92.7      85.8     92.3      100.0    101.0    133.0    184.8    207.4
Current Transfers              1280.6    713.8   2475.6    1968.9   3861.9   3012.1          54.7      71.0    100.0   1618.8   1232.9   1390.3    347.5
Total Revenue                    73.8      71.5      71.5      71.0      80.4      88.1      88.7      96.5     100.0    102.5     114.9    131.9    137.9
Note Real a,diu aneted usr GDP delator



41
Table 4: Honduras - Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector
Expenditures
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988     1989       1990     1991    1992/p
Exoenditur  by TMoe
(Millions orCurrent Lempiras)
Wages. Salarie & S.S. contrib. /1    510.6    601.4    649.1    607.4    645.9    708.0    S50.7    929.6   1020.1   1153.3   1333.6  1421.4   2005.2
Goods&Serviccs /1                231.1    210.1    219.5    316.9    364.9    405.1    336.5    369.1    409.1    494.7    600.1   693.6    845.9
Intercts                         111.1     120.2    166.4    185.3    214.2    291.1    332.5    422.9    478.5    592.2    628.1  1310.4   1285.1
Internal Debt                    36.7      41.3      58.6     91.3    101.2    112.9    134.5    275.2    199.4    271.5    325.7   400.9    406.4
Extenal Debt                     74.4      79.0    107.9      94.0    113.0    178.3    198.0    147.7    279.1    320.7    302.4   909.5    878.7
OtherExpenditure                   0.8       0.0       1.5      1.1       20        4.9       1.9      1.8       1.3       1.5       0.0     0.0       0.0
Currnt Transfen                   37.5      45.6      38.7     70.7      60.6    100.9       98.7     68.3      77.2      89.5    198.8   284.7    344.0
Totl CunrentExpendite            891.1    977.3   1075.2   1181.4   1287.6   1510.0   1620.3   1791.7   1986.2   2331.2   2760.6  3710.1   4480.2
Capital Expenditures           530.7    470.1    546.6    656.8    747.5    645.8    504.9    422.6    510.2    589.5    894.5  1312.3   1815.5
otol Expenditwe                 1421.8   1447.5   1621.8   1838.2   2035.1   2155.8   2125.3   2214.3   2496.3   2920.7   3655.1  5022.4   6295.7
(As Percent ofTotal Current Expenditures)
Wages, Salaries   SS. contrib.  57.30%    61.53%    60.37%    51.41%    50.17%    46.89%    52.50%    51.89%    51.36%    49.47%    48.31%  38.31%   44.76%
Goods & Sevices                25.93%    21.50%    20.42%    26.82%   28.34%    26.83%    20.77%   20.60%    20.60%    21.22%    21.74%   18.69%   18.88%
Interess                       12.46%    12.30%    15.48%    15.69%    16.64%    19.28%    20.52%    23.60%   24.09%    25.40%    22.75%  35.32%   28.68%
Internal Debt                  4.12%     4.22%     5.45%     7.73%    7.86%     7.47%     8.30%    15.36%    10.04%    11.65%   11.80%   10.80%    9.07%
External Debt                  8.35%     8.08%    10.03%    7.96%    8.77%    11.81%    12.22%      8.24%    14.05%    13.76%    10.95%  24.52%    19.61%
OtherExpenditures               0.09%     0.00%     0.14%     0.09%    0.15%     0.32%     0.12%     0.10%    0.07%     0.06%     0.00%   0.00%     0.00%
CurrentTrTnsfrs                 4.21%     4.67%     3.60%     5.99%    4.70%     6.69%     6.09%1o   3.81%    3.88%     3.84%     7.20%   7.67%     7.68%
(As Percent of GDP)
Wages,Salaries.S.contrib.       9.95%    10.66%    11.18%     9.87%    9.73%     9.73%    11.17Y    11.19%    11.03%    11.16%    10.64%   8.70%   10.83%
Goods & Service                 4.50%     3.73%     3.78%     5.15%    5.50%     5.56%     4.42/.   4.44%     4.42%     4.79%     4.79/.  4.24%    4.57%
Interets                       216%      2.13%     2.87%     3.01%    3.23%     4.00%     4.37%     5.09%    5.17%     5.73%     5.01%   8.02%    6.94%
OtherExpenditurcs               0.02%     0.00%     0.03%     0.02%    0.03%     0.07%     0.02%     0.02%    0.01%     0.01%     0.00%   0.00%    0.00%
Curnt Transfers                 0.73%     0.81%     0.67%     1.15%    0.91%     1.39%     1.30%    0.82%    0.83%    0.87%       1.59%    1.74%    1.86%
Total Current Expenditures     17.36%    17.33%    18.52%    19.20%    19.40%   20.74%    21.27%   21.57%    21.47%    22.56%    22.02%  22.70%   24.19%
Capial Expenditures          10.34%     8.34%     9.41%    10.67%    11.26%    S.S7%     6.63%     5.09%    5.51%     5.70%     7.13%   S.03%    9.80%
Total Expenditure              27.71%    25.67%    27.93%   29.87%   30.66%    29.62%    27.90%    26.66%    26.98%    28.26%    29.15%  30.73%   33.99%
(Real 1988 Lempiras, Index 1988-100)
Wages, Salarie & S.S. contrib.    74.2      81.5      84.2     73.7      75.8      79.0      91.3     97.0    100.0    105.6    100.7    84.8    110.8
Goods & Servicer                  83.7      71.0      71.0     95.9    106.8    112.6        90.1     96.1    100.0    112.9    113.0   103.2    116.5
interests                         34.4      34.7      46.0     47.9      53.6      69.2      76.1     94.1    100.0    115.6    101.1   166.7    151.3
Internal Debt                    27.3      28.6      38.9     56.7      60.8      64.4      73.9    146.9    100.0    127.2    125.9   122.4    114.8
ExterniI Debt                    39.5      39.1      51.2     41.7      48.5      72.7      77.7      56.4    100.0    107.3       83.5   198.4    177.4
Other Expenditurer                92.0       3.2    149.9    102.6    179.7    425.2    157.0    147.4    100.0    107.8             0.0     0.0       0.0
CurentTrmnsfen                    72.1      81.7      66.4    113.5      94.0    148.8    140.0       94.2    100.0    108.3    198.6   224.7    251.3
TotslCuwrentExpendits             66.5      68.0      71.7     73.6      77.6      S6.5      89.3     96.1    100.0    109.6    107.1   113.7    127.1
Capitl Expenditbues            154.1     127.4    141.8    159.3    175.4    144.0    108.4         88.2    100.0    107.9    135.1   156.6    200.5
Totl Expenditre                   84.4      80.2      86.0     91.1      97.6      98.2      93.2     94.5    100.0    109.3    112.8   122.5    142.1
Noe: ReJ indice created usag GDP deftator.
I/ Does not inchide expenditura ofNFPEa



42
Table 5: Honduras - Weighted Average Nominal Exchange Rate: 1988 to 1993
1929                            Jan      Feb       Mar        Apr       May       JLu        Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec
Official'                     0.62      0.62      0.62       0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62       0.62      0.50      0 50
CETRA                                                                                                                               0.07      0.07
Parallel                      0.38      0.38      0.38       0.38      0.38      0.38      0.38      0.38      0.38       0.38      0.43      0.43
Exchange Rates                                                                                                                                         Axg.
Official                      2.00      2.00      2.00       2.00      200       2.00      2.00      2.00       2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00
CETRA                          --        --                           - --                  --                             --       3.15      3.00
Parallel                      4.40      3.50      3.50       3.50      3.35      3.35      3.35      3.30      3.20       3.20      3.50      4.00      3.51
WeightedAvee ER                2.91        57      2.SI- 157  2.57      251        5t 1          .51  2.49      24    .:46           2.73      293       2 60
Indx                           111.953 91,73     9'        93.78      96.9      9    6.         5     9 79659 95.36  94.40  94.40    104.5    112.53    100.00
Jan      Feb       Mar        Apr       May        Jun       Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec
Isnpor (USS ml)                                                                                                                                       igta1
oirncial                     39.10     35.40     54.70     33.40      3000      26.50     24,30     24.50      12.70     16.50     13.50     11.60    322.20
CEIRA                         4.80      7.70      6.60      5.10       4.70      1.S0      1.80     16.10     12.40      26.50     13.40     17.80    118.70
PanlIel                      26.10     44.40     40.00      32.00     37.00     29.10     26.90     33.10     40.20      36.00     41.20     37.80    423 80
Echae RAs                                                                                                                                             Avw
Official                      2.00      2     00  z0        zo00       2.00      2 00      2.00      zo0        2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00
CETRA                         3.07      3.08      3.09       3.16      3.17      3.17      3.15      3.17      3.20       3.22      3.32      3.34      3.21
ParaIlel                      3.50      350       3.51       3.50      3.48      3.55      3.65      3.70      3.75       3.90      4.05      4.10      3.69
Weighted Averne ER             2.63  :2.86         267       2.76       2.84      2.82      2.81S   3.02        13.3 Lk::    3.27    3.50      3.54      3.00
hndex                        IOI.19 t109.71    102:52    106.27    109.18    108.49    110.'5.6    116.04  :17.04    125.86    13456    135.96   . 115.15
1990                           Jan       Feb       Mar        Apr       May        Jun       Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec
Irport (USSmln.)                                                                                                                                     loLA
Offiial                      27.10     16.00     37.30      82.70     92.50     92.50     66.60     57.10     42.80      42.10     77.90     68.50    703.10
CETRA                        22.20     41.60     13.10      0.20       0.20                                     ..                    .        ..      77,30
PaIrlel                      28.80     40.10     16.20       9.90     12.10     15.10     15.10      2.50      2.90       1.60      440       340    152.10
Exchange Ratsx                                                                                                                                        Avizw
Official                      2.00      200       4.06      4.10       4.16      4.31      4.31      4.31      4.31       4.31      5.45      5.38      4.34
CETRA                         3.34      3.47      3.58       3.58      3.58      3.58      3.58       --        --         --        --        --       3.45
Parallel                      4.35      4.65      4.45      4.40       4.30      4.57      4.70      5.22       5.70      5.90      5.63      5.45      4 61
XWeightedAverage      '  4  0  R . 3.25 j.:. ' . ' 3.71 .; 0-' ;-t'-; 't  t 4.06.04.13  4.18 4.1   4.35  43M  43S  44       38
i,dex                                                                                                         f        :6 9 2416:0 942.  16.0  151.  160.48 3.,  16.07    168.43 "'167113 . .0"79 25,6  165.74
Jan      Feb       Mar        Apr      MAY         Jun       Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       NOv       Dee
Imlpal (USS mih)
official                     67.70     84.80     65.10     73.70
CETRA                                              ,         ,
Pllel                         5.00      3.10      3.70      6.60
Exchae Rates                                                                     .
Official                      5.30      5.30      5.30      5.30       5.30      5.30      5.30      5.30      5.30       5.30      5.40      5.40      5.32
CETRA
Parallel                      5.34      5.37      5.40      5.38       5.38      5.44      5.49      5.56      5.57       5.64      5.81      5.75      5.51
WeightedAverageER:.            5.30       .30      5.31:   5.31         5.30      5.31      5.3I' ..1311        5.32    . 5.32       5.4       .42       5.33
lIdex                        203.82    203.81  '2392    203.97    203.87    203.98    204.01    204.21    204.23    204.37J  208.35.   208.23    204.74
1992                           Jan       Feb       Mar        Apr      May         Jun       Jul      Aug        Sep       Oct       Nov       Dec
Excharge Rates
Official                      5.40      5.40      5.40       5.40      5.40      5.44      5.49      5.54      5.60       5.74      5.82      5.84      5.54
Paallel                       5.67      5.63      5.62       5.54      5.46      5.44      5.48      5.56       5.72      5.79      5.80      5.81      5.63
Averge  .          - :         5.54      5.52      5.51       5.47      5.43      5.44     55.49        5.55: '   .I   .   -.77      5.81 .    5.t3      5.58
Index                         212.75    211.98V. 21179    210.25    20871    209.10    2183    21332 :.45               22359      2332    223.89    214.59
1993                           Jan       Feb       Mar        Apr      May        Jun        Jul      Aug
Exchnge RaesA
Official                      5.82      5.85      5.86      5.90       605       6.25      6.81      6.83      6.18
ParaIlel                      5.12      5.85      5.87       5.93      6.11      6.39      6.74      7.06      6.22
Avae eE                         5.82     5.85   5 .S7I         .2:      6.08      6.3       671       6.97      6.20
I -  :':223.70    224.86-,;-  225.43    22735    233.70    242.927   260.41F: :267.9.0.   23..8:.2312
Sourme: Banco Centil de Hondunr and IMF. Updated with dat from 5/93 nd 8/93. 1988 daa is utaken from  The Exchag Rate System and
Macroeconomic Equilibrium in Hondura?; S. Edwards, 1990. For 1988 nnual average irport shares were used to certe weighted average
monthly exchange rae. Nov. - Des 1988 weight were taken from the lIt quana a*v  1989. 1989 Cetru rte is from Edwards. 1990. PaIlel
rates re BCH and re consistent with dat in Edwarda 1990'.
Note: Average monthly exdanger tesfor JaS 198t - May 1991 are weighted by shares of import in total imports. June 1991 - Aug. 93 are
sight unweighted averages. The pa llel market premiwn averaged only about 1.2% for that period w - indicates weightied



43
Table 6: TASAS DE INTERES PONDERADAS DEL SISTEMA BANCARIO NACIONAL
(En porvenlajas)
Tass                           Taus Pauivas
Activa
Presamos   Deptoc AhoTro   DeptoL Plazo  Cetificado.
19 85
I Trimnestre                           13.5                3.6                10.3               11.0
II Trimeutre                           13.4                 3.1               10.2               10.9
m Trimestre                             13.2                8.2                10.2               11.0
IV Trimestre                           13.6                 8.2               10.2               10.9
1989
I Trimneste                            15.6                6.2                 3.6                9.9
H Trinestre                            15.5                6.2                 1.6                9.9
m Trimetmu                              15.4                6.2                 8.6                9.9
IV Timcstre                            15.2                 7.1                S.5               10.5
1990
I Trimestm                             15.5                6.9                 3.4               10.4
HTzin,cstr                             17.0                 7.5                9.2               11.1
m Trimeatrm                             17.1                8.3                 9.9               11.7
rv Trimcre                             18.1                 8.5                9.9                12.7
19 9 1
I Trinetre                             20.3                S.S                10.7               14.0
a Trimestre                            22.0                 9.4               11.4               15.3
M Trimetr                               22.0                9.6                11.8               15.7
IV Trimcntre                            23.2                9.1                11.9               16.1
1992
Enero                                  22.7                 9.9               12.3                16.1
Fcbrero                                22.5                 9.9               12.4                16.1
Marzo                                  22.4                 9.8               12.4                15.9
Abril                                  22.2                 9.9               12.6               15.6
Mayo                                   21.7                 9.8               12.6                15.4
Junio                                  21.7                 9.7               12.3                15.2
Julio                                  22.2                 9.4               12.2               15.2
Aosto                                  21.2                 9.3               12.2               14.6
Septiembre                             20.9                 9.2               12.1               14.0
Octubre                                21.0                9.2                12.1               13.8
Noviembre                              21.0                 9.3               12.1                13.6
Diciambre                              20.7                 9.2               12.3               13.6
1 9 9 3
Enero                                  20.7                 9.2              1I.8                 13.6
Febrmro                                20.7                 9.1               11.6                13.4
Marzo                                  20.7                 9.4                11.2               13.5
Abril                                  20.7                 9.1               11.8                13.3
Mayo                                   21.1                 9.2                11.8               13.3
Fuente: Superintendencis de BareoL



44
Table 7
Reserve Requirements
1990
I January         August            October          November          December
35%              35%              35%               35%              35%
1991
February         March             May              August           December
35%              35%               35%              35%              35%
1992
I March           April             September        November
35%              35%              35%               34%
1993
| May          June           July          July           August         September
35%           36%            35%           42%            39%           36%
Source: UDAPE using figures from Central Bank of Honduras.



Ta  0e: BALANCE DEL BANCO CEflRAL DE HODIXYRAS
(SdmM - _   ude do  _pk
19      1396      190:2    Igo       1964     195      139  ri   1967,1   39Sd   1969d,  1996w    1991        1992 ri
RESERVAS DITERNAr (NETAS) U          225.9      .0    2S)   (2122)  (9.)   (2933)  (23.9)   (148.9)  (1243)   (1744)  (251.7)   M1A.    431.s
ACIrOS NAOACINALES                  151.1    406.4    663.7   604.4    23.        150.4    6s.7    319.5    9473   1,206.0  1,703.4  1.240.0  1,403.9
Ciedite Amu                        447.7    664.2    8763   1,094.   1,274.3  I,470.7  1,533.2  I,68.5  1.921.0   222.6  2,133.2  1,627.7  1,767.9
Seem Pa6.4g.)                     2L2.2    34.1    515.9    617.4    62.1       72.       623    748.2    974.9  1.169.   3,033.7    4683        525.1
G     _bimueCeaI                 133.4    309.3    450.3    529.6    5327    616.2    537.1    727.7    948U    1.204.0  1,171.S    60.         607.7
Cmdi. BDf 2/                    231.4    425.4    563.0    525.5   713.5   M7.          757.     969.0   1,405.9  1,535.6   1,837.7  1,300.3  3,443.2
oliswcign                        93.0    116.1    310.7      (4.1)   320.3    340.9    170.5    2613    457.1    331.0    66.2    692.0    835.5
Depmihm 41                      93.0    136.3    336.7      (4.1)   120.3    360.9    130.8    225.1    414.2    2M3.7    613.0    6337       760.7
FicuimeGubCwL                    0.0      0.0      *.0       0.0      0*        *       39.7     36.2     42.9     473      48[2     593      74.3
Rom SedwrPdije                    73.8     54.8      65A      37.3     79.4      6A6      31.7     20.5    2xi       (34.A)  (139.3)  (134.5)   (81.9)
CuuddBned                       11033    109.9    312. I    33.5    141.1    147.4   133.1   1338.    130.7    125.7    147.7    134.7    179.0
Oaiecimp                         36.5    $5.3       47.2     51.7     624      60.3      95.4   317.5    304.      363.3    237.5    269.2    260S
Deui-                           36.5     55.3      47.2     51.7     62.4      0.3      38.2    132.1     99.9    356.2    2846    267.2    259.4
Phsainyctm                       0.0      0.0      0.        0.0      0.       0.        7.2      5.4      4.7      3.9      2.9      2.0       3.5
SiiBam ie                         235A     299A      353.9    476.9    611.7    766.4    907.    932.3    928.3   1,0.7  I374   1,1273   1,290.3
BMW=  C am-                      1403      52.2   131.2    222.3    312.6    424.9    516.7    476.3    430.6    541.7    ssL3    653.4    665.1
-ina  Dmu,ells                    n3.7    329.9    173.2    215.2    260.6    303.1    311.1    334A       319.5    340.5    360.0    320.5    372.3
1-. Ahur.yPtam                   13.0      17.5      14.5     39.6     38.      334       73.5    121.4    12.2    147.5    153.6    153.4    162.2
Secer Privae .5                             0.5       0.5      0.5      6.5      1.5       3.4      7.2     17.3     26.7     29.1     32.1      42.0
Otm Acivee N"                      (9.)   (257.6)  (206.6)  (400.)   (450.5)  (62.3)  (667.5)  (36.0)  (973.7) (1,020.0)  (429.3)  (381.7)  (364.0)
Capital y Ruavas                  (130.6)  (350.6)   (170.9)  (204.0)  (238.4)  (303.4)  (314.7)  (293.4)  (359.3)  (435.8)  (493.6)  (641.4)  (737.3)
Fadeuasiaio Eutuu                (299.6)  (3193)  (276.6)  (432.3)  (500.5)  (645.6)  (723.)   (375.6)  (932.9) (3,031.4) (3,150.3) (2,972.3) (3,332.3)
Ofdmaio                          (35.5)   (43.7)   (61.3)  (332.4)  (359.5)  (321.1)  (406.2)  (537.1)  (6003)  (615.4) (1,768.) (,837.7) (1,947.3)
c      _iapemaio                (263.3)  (262.0)  (20312)   (3.9)  (312.8)  (281.0)  (275.9)  (2733)   (269.5)  (293.1) (1,0327)  (335.5)  (947.1)
m     Dda. D  dEm a               (2.3)    (3.6)   (13.6)   (36.0)   (23       (43.5)   (46.7)   (65.2)   (63.1)  (117.9)  (3493)  (248.9)  (233.4)
NCiaicadea3J                      137.6    212.3    240.9    235.9    234    3237    376.0    301.0    319.0    447.2  3,214.6  3,225.8  3,486.6
AC1IVOrS = PASVOS                331.0    414.6    442.9    4822    531.8    557.1    578.8    670.6    23.6   1,031.6  1,451.7  1,410.4  3,335.4
E33dSDMOETARIA                      30s      332S    343.0    392.1    4243    4S4.         477.0    541.0    621.9    739.6    97s.7  1,1133   1,303.1
DEPoTOS DEBAINCOS Si                 67.7     776       92.5     79.5     99.5     95.5      6.1    102.7    173.9    26.4    413.5    240.6    47V.5
llacmCAM.iaIm                        60.8     71.6     35.4     56s      3.        34.2     7.2      72.6   133.0    226.9    394.9    337.7    446.2
Ra.cJoeD_ n e                         3*       1.9      6.1     15.0      9.        8.3      3       32.9     20.1       2.7     (8.0)  (133.1)   (25.6)
bm AbomyP_mda                         5.9      4.1      1.       8.6      3.9       3.*      73      17.2     1L3       32.3     26.6     34.0     49.9
OSUGAOtMCON PRVADOS                   6.4      4.5       7A      30.6      8O       7.0      15.7     26.9     27.2     29.6     64.5     51.5     61.3
DqmimMoeawiu                         4.7      2.1      6.4       7.       33       3.4      4*        9.7     113      11.2     46.      29.9     36.6
Ob. Dq_iIe                           1.7      2.4       IA       3.       4.7      3.6      3.8       6.3      4.6      S.7      5.6      73       *3
v_lum                                0.       0.0      6.        0.0      0.0      0.0      79       10.4     11.3     327      129      343       16.9
O am Osiamam                         0.0      0.0       6.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
uIPeicim Ns cam FlU                 (38.2)   (37.3)  (207.A)   (293.1)  (2733)   (2673)   (196.4)  (135.9)   (63.6)   (61.4)  (154.3)  (170.6)  (649.6)
2/ bereDm aDgebi..                    0.0      0.0    104.4    135.4    62.4    376.7    383.0   I326         178.1    373.2    178.1    173.2    173.2
31FdeiLABF31P.Pwvo&o                  0.0      0.0      6.0      11.7    , 309     67.4    140.5    144.3    173.2      49.7    194.4    233.0    249.3
4/Fvicic.i    PM&SYb0   0. 0                    0.        0       9.1     30.6      23.8     42.2     73.2     33.6       7.3    130.5    142.4   1273
5DBm RWI 1mm.                         0.0      0.6      0.0      0o       0o        *.       0.0      19.7      19.7    27.7      47.1    58.9     50.6
Dqi.mmper_pegma u                    0*.      0*.      G*       0*3     55.5      553      20.5     363      97.7    125.2    324.1    2003      120.3
6/ L_ iqaie de GaM,. imch  aj- d L103.9, p    Amci6a de
Dud Ad Gebi..., de k Udada UnWae a p.uW  dl 26/993.
S :m  Ba  Co &ma de           DpL Emdie Eem.. cee



TAb PALANc COUOLMIADO DIC IANCW COCIALI
(dim m  M.ll    de L$ m
19"      191       912      193       1N4       IN5      1986     t7        19U1      1989     199       1991;92 ud
RESERVAS INIENAC. (NETAS)           (420)       0.1      (7-1)   (27.0)    (36.3)   (39.9)   (33.3)    (74.9)    (43.1)    (2.0)    324      123.8    319.2
ACTPVOSNACIONALES                  1,235.6   1,265.5   1,430.1   1,710.4   1991.2  2,140.2  2,420.5   2,771.5   3,054.0   3,3U4.4   3,915.3  4,642.7   5,3320
Cr.ditohiauo                      1,102.2   1,113.5   1,304.3  1.595.0  1,10.6   2,004.0  2,216.5  2,640.7   2,170.3  3,121.5  3,494.2  4,161.2  4,633.3
Scam Public. Ndo                  156.9    126.9    210.2    340.2    406.7    336.        491.3    509.7    434.6    517.3    463.1    630.1    346.9
G&enbioCmInl                     169.8    149.4    239.4    368.7    445.6    517.2    676.7    633.0    702.7    319.5    t77.1   1,159.1    175.1
DeudaBnia                       192.9    131.2    275.4    369.5    447.3    517.6    676.9    613.2    702.9    319.7    139.4   1,160.9  1,011.0
Oblipciam                         23.1     31.S        36       0.3      1.7       0.4      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2     12.3       1.1    135.2
Dqepsits                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     12.1       0.9     10.5
OtrsOblig.                      23.1      31.1     36.0       0.1      1.7       0.4      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2    124.7
RcstoSod" Publico                (12.9)    (22.5)    (29.2)   (23.5)   (31.9)  (130.4)   (14.9)  (17S.3)   (21t.1)   (301.7)   (409.0)  (479.7)  (528.9)
Dicudn Butz                       3.4       0.3      0.3      43.1     42.2      14.3     30.0      45.1     67.3      6ZS      503       39.5      4.7
Obligaciona                       163      22.3      29.5      72.3     31.1    144.7    214.9    223.4    2S5.4    364.5    459.3    519.2    533.6
DcpOitS                         14.3      21.2     21.3      65.7     72.1    123.5    193.6    209.5    270.1    344.S    440.6    460.9    50S.7
Oras Oblig.                      2.0       1.6       1.2      6.6      9.0      16.2     16.3      13.9      15.3     19.7     13.7      53.3     24.9
ScctorPrivado                     945.3    991.6   1,094.6  1,254.1   1,433.9  1,617.2   1,794.7  2,131.0   2,335.7   2603.7   3,026.1   3,481.1   4,341.4
Prcstamy Dcscucenta              S91.4    923.2   1,045.2   1,202.3   1,375.4   1,554.0   1,731.1   2,064.4   2,333.2  2,557.0   2,908.0   3,364.7  4,225.1
OtrxoCrcdiLou                     53.9      63.4     49.4      52.0     53.5      63.2     63.6      66.6     52.5      46.7    113.1    116.4    116.3
Disponibilidadcs Mmeurin           169.1   11.1    170.2    136.3    201.0    203.9    206.1    246.5    322.7    427.2    707.3    743.7   1,045.6
Dcpoitm cn BCH                     71.4      80.9     83.3      50.3     39.5      85.0     73.3      75.6    144.8    215.6    374.3    322.0    4S5.5
BilictcaNMonedasenCja              32.3      30.3     29.4      30.1     40.9      44.4     51.1      49.4     51.7      63.6     91.3    140.9    162.6
Chcquesoapcnspi/Cobro              65.4      69.9      52.5     56.4     70.6      79.5     76.7    112.8    117.5    134.3    214.3    239.3    363.5
ValorsFOVI                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       3.7      3.7      13.2     26.9      41.5     34.0
OtroiActivog Ntos                  (35.7)    (34.1)      5.1    (21.4)   (50.4)    (72.7)    (72.1)  (115.7)   (139.0)   (164.3)  (215.7)   (262.2)  (351.9)
CGpitlyRcsers                    (160.6)   (172.1)   (134.2)   (206.9)  (239.7)  (277.3)   (307.0)  (335.7)  (371.6)  (425.9)  (531.4)  (707.3)   (876.0)                               1
Endcudrnmicnto Exter.(Ncto)           0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0      (2.9)
NoCClificadog                    124.9    138.0    139.3    135.5    139.3    205.1    234.9    220.0    232.6    261.6    315.7    445.6    527.0
ACTIVOS - PASIVOS               1,193.6   1,266.3   1,472.3  1,683.4   1,954.9  2,100.3   2,336.7  2,696.6   3,005.2   3,332.4  4,063.2  4,766.5   5,701.2
OBLIGACIONESCONPRIVAIDOS           1,013.3   1,100.1   1,29S.3   1,460.6  1,639.0   1,673.4  1,365.0  2,217.9   2,503.5   2,323.6  3,507.6  4,110.5   5,022.5
Depoilos Moncda N cionil           g47.1    931.9   1,122.7  1,231.1   1,453.4   1,493.3   1,651.7  1,992.S   2,294.1   2,618.1   3,239.6  3,761.7  4,499.3
EnCuent dcChcqucs                 383.6    397.6    432.5    437.6    515.5    503.5    566.6    693.5    742.7    909.0  1,117.5   1,377.0  1,639.0
DcAhono                           233.4    253.3    233.9    344.1    4024        426.0    505.6    640.4    723.0    795.1    932.7   1,262.2   1,767.6
A Plazo                           207.4    256.4    351.9    393.6    433.0    447.3    493.0    559.2    632.3    733.2    744.5    783.1    393.6
Otn Dcpoxitos                      17.7      24.6     54.4      50.3    107.5    116.5       S1.5     99.7    191.1    180.3    444.9    339.4    199.1
Deposium Moneda Extlrnjen           61.2      54.1     56.3      51.4     43.6      46.5     54.4      55.4     37.3      29.2     67.7    12S.1    290.9
BonreCedulasHipotccarias            31.0      23.3     23.3      26.1     31.2      24.2     32.3      40.5     36.0      32.3     27,3      22.3     13.7
AhmofoEspeciuaizado                 43.0      51.4      5Z5      53.9     60.3      61.2     63.3      63.4     73.3      74.0     73.4      34.5     86.2
Otrm Obligaciones                   26.5      34.4     44.0      43.1      45.5     48.2      62.3     60.3     67.3      75.0     94.1    113.4    127.4
OBUGACIONESCONBCH                   179.3    166.2    173.5    222.8    315.9    426.9    521.7    473.7    496.7    553.8    560.6    656.0    678.7
AdclanloeyRedescuentos             146.4    129.6    134.9    132.4    200.7    235.5    327.3    246.3    237.0    291.1    218.2    207.7    198.2
DcpositasFONDEI                      0.0       0.0       0.0     13.0      22.1     35.1     40.1      55.6     30.6      32.2      12.2      5.6      9.9
Prestawo FONDEI                      0.0       0.0       0.0     33.4     34.5      53.4     67.1      75.5      35.3    113.5    129.4    128.3    111.3
PrcstUnosFIC                         5.6       5.2      4.3       5.0      4.3       1.0      4.7       4.3      4.1       3.6      1.3       1.1      1.0
PrUrmes PRI                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      5.9      34.3      5.4       3.5      7.7      10.1     43.6    123.7    121.3
PvcstesmwUPCA                       17.9      22.0     25.0      23.6     36.7      46.2     56.5      63.7     58.7      64.5     98.9    121.2    153.9
Depcitm UPCA                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       S.4      3.9       S.6     15.6      13.6      8.1
Prcatanom FOVI                       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.4      3.1       3.0      3.2
PrcaamosTrardportc                    9.9      9.4       3.3       3.9      6.1      7.5       7.9      5.1       2.3      7.5       6.9      7.5      7.6
PrutnaPeq. C.mcultor                   0         0       0.5       1.5      5.1       3.9     122      16.3      16.6     22.3      31.4    43.3      59.2
DqxouoPcq. Caricultr                   0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0      5.0



Table 10:
Balance of Payments (Mins. of USS)
,1980     1981     1982   ' 1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990,, '1991        1992/p
CURRENT ACCOUNT                   -330.8   -321.3   -245.4      -254   -386.5   -353.3   -262.5   -340.3   -323.6   -338.2   -305.8   -359.9   -410.5
Exports of GNFS                    943.2    885.3    768.5    802.8    849.3    911.5   1013.8    955.9   1037.7   1074.5   1045.4          1049      1103
Merchandise (FOB)                 850.3    783.8    676.5    698.6        737    795.8       894    821.8    881.1    903.2    886.9    837.5    842.6
Non-factorServices                 92.9    101.5        92     104.2    112.3    115.7    119.8    134.1    156.6    171.3    158.5    211.5    260.4
ImportsofGNFS                     1128.1   1062.3    821.1    914.6       1068     1087   1078.1   1074.6   1140.9   1189.3   1123.4   1139.2         1225
Merchandise (FOB)                 954.1    898.6    680.7    756.3    884.8    891.7    879.5    871.4    923.4    955.7          907    912.5    982.6
Non-factor Services                 174    163.7    140.4    158.3    183.2    195.3    198.6    203.2    217.5    233.6    216.4    226.7    242.4
Resource Balance                  -184.9    -177      -52.6   -111.8   -218.7   -175.5    -64.3   -118.7   -103.2   -114.8          -78    -90.2      -122
Net Factor Income                 -153.4   -153.2   -201.8   -151.9   -177.8   -190.2   -211.2   -237.6   -243.4   -248.1   -253.1   -297.2   -317.8
Factor Receipts                    24.3     17.9        15      12.2     13.8      12.8       11       9.5     10.2      10.7      7.8       9.2      9.4
Factor Payments                   177.7    171.1    216.8    164.1    191.6    203.0    222.2    247.1    253.6    258.8    260.9    306.4    327.2
Total interest                     100    127.5    171.8    131.0    135.1    145.0    154.7    177.1    181.1    184.1    188.9    234.4    253.3
Other                             77.7     43.6      45.0     33.1      56.5     58.0      67.5     70.0      72.5     74.7      72.0     72.0      73.9
Current Private Transfers (Net)      7.5      8.9       9.0       9.7     10.0      12.4     13.0      16.0     23.0     24.7      25.3     27.5      29.3
CAPITALACCOUNT                     295.6    259.1       118    228.8    391.3    388.1    311.5    358.6    422.8    413.2    454.1    307.5    310.3
Official Transfers                14.0      18.6     21.0      34.8     79.9    133.1    145.4    115.3    203.5    141.3    236.4    163.3    155.0
Of which: US                 INIA     IN/A      #NIA     #N/A         68.0    111.0    107.5      81.3    156.7      81.8    192.0    102.9       88.0
Direct Investment                  5.8      -3.6     13.8      17.5     20.4      27.5     30.0      38.7     48.3      51.0     43.5      44.7     56.5
Net LT Borfowing                 245.4    238.0    115.2    129.4    229.2    235.8        40.9      54.9     41.9    -64.7      33.6    -99.8      18.5
NetShortTerm                       11.0     13.6    -37.5      41.7     47.4      -0.3      97.8     151    131.3    198.8    116.1    181.6        81.4
Other                              19.4     -7.5      5.5       5.4      14.4     -8.0     -2.6      -1.3     -2.2      86.8     24.5      17.7     -1.1
Errors and Omissions               -22.9      0.2       9.7      21.7      -45      -39    -39.9       29.6    -73.1    -76.7   -110.6    100.2    128.9
OVERALLBALANCE                     -58.1      -62    -117.7     -3.5    -40.2       -4.2      9.1     47.9      26.1     -1.7      37.7     47.8      28.7
FINANCING                           58.1       62     117.7      3.5      40.2      4.2      -9.1     47.9    -26.1       1.7    -37.7    -47.8    -28.7
Change inNet Ofricial Reserves     58.1       62     117.7      3.5      40.2      4.2      -9.1     47.9    -26.1       1.7    -56.2    -89.5    -76.8
ChangeinArres                       -        -         -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -        52.7    122.4    113.6
Rcschedulings                       -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -                  -       -34.2    -80.7    -65.5
Offsetting Entry for Debt Relief    -        -         -         --                     -         -        -                       -      448.4      14.9
Debt Relief                         -        -         -        -         -         -        -        -         -        -         -     -448.4    -14.9
Source: Estudios Economicos, Banco Central de Honduras



48
Table 11:
Value, Volume, and Price of Merchandise Exports
(Value In Million USS, Volume In Thousands, and Unit Value In US5)
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      l985       1986      1987      1988       1989      1990       199        1992pi
Traditional Exports,(value)               6472       5982      5358      543.1      594.8     630.8     739.3      675.9     734.8     7340       716.1     6543       642 
Bananas                                   2280       213.3     218.3     203.1     232.2      273.5     2.568      310.S      356.4     351.7    357.9      314.4      2865
Volume (40 lbs. boxes)                  47,450    42,234    44,736    35,095    41.250    46,540    42,547    49,426    46,859    45,022    42,321        38,325    40,930
Unit Value                                4.81       5.05      4.88      5.79      5.63       5.88      603        6.29      7.61      7.81       8.46      8.20       7.00
Coffee                                    204.1      172.9     153.1     151.2      169.1     185.2     322.1       199.9     192l      190,9    180.9       145.9     147.6
Volume (60 Kg. Bags)                       946     1,133       956      1,238     1,130      1,192     1,325      1.451     1,263     1.420      1,736     1,444      1,959
Unit Value                               215.8      152.6     160.1     122.1      149.6     155.4     243.1      1378      152.1     134.4      1042      101.0       75,3
Lunber                                     36.2      43.2       44.7      40.4       34.9      34.1       323   ... 34.75      29.8      24.1      16.1       15.3      15.8
Volume (rn3)                               269       292       301        262       231       213        219       227        180       145         87        72        S0
Unit Value                               1345       147.8     148.4     1542       151.0     160.1     147.5      152.9     165.1     166 6      185.0     211.7      198.7
Mealt             0      0                 60.7      46.5       33.9      31.3       21.2      18.2      200    f226           20.3      19.S      25.3      31.4       35.7
Volume (Kg)                             28,605    23.800    16,195    15,474      9,519      8,643    10,874      9,681     9,919     9.261     11,460    14.150    16,900
Unit Value                                2.12       1.95      2.09      2.03      2.23       2.10      1.83      2.33       2.05      2.14       2.21      2.22      2.11
Sugar                                      29.3       46.5      21.6      27.8       25.7      21.5       12.5       18.6      14.4       8.3      12.4       L 84      5.1
Volumc (Kp.)                            81,473    83.083    87,479   106.165    89,632   119,292    63,133    95.577    68,662    20.763    27.111        20,053    13,190
Unit Value                                0.36      0.56       0.25      0.26      0.29       0.18      0.20      0.19       0.21      0.40       0.46      0.42      0.44
Shrimp and Lobster                         23.4       26.2      28.0      36.0      49.8       41.0      45.4       58.5      70.5       61.2      65.7      92.9      96.8
Volume (Kgs.)                            3,273     3,645      3.600     4,266     3,944      3,473     3,456     4,500      6.020     5,310      5,920     8,090     8,670
Unit Value                                7.16      7.20       7.77      8.43     12.63      11.79     1314       3.00      11.71     11.53      11.10     11.48     11,16
Tobacco                                     13.7      13.3      10.8       10.8       8.3       8.7        5.3       4.15       4.2       3.2        .5        2.1       4.8
Volume (Kgs.)                            4,566     4,488      3,170     3,125     2,506      2,319     1,498     1,260      1.280     1,170      1,220     1,190     1,900
Unit Value                                3.00      2.97       3.40      3.46      3.33       3.73      354       3.29       3 28      2.74       2.05      1.76      2.53
Snver                                      31.8       157        9.3      17.6       15.5  .   13.0      12.6        7.6        9.9       Sl        4.7       4.3        5.2
Volumc (Troy Ounces)                     1,624     1,576      1,211     1.629     2.022      2,108     2,255      1,146     1.599     1.545      1,030     1,120      1,370
Unit Value                               19.56      9.98       7.68     1078       7.67       6.17      5.57       6.63      6.19      5.24       4.56      3.84       3.80
Lead                 .                     10.0        8.4       4.2       4.6        63        5.9      &62         3.7        7.4         6       4.2  .   3.3         7.0L
Volume (Pounds)                         26.803    26,256    19,034    25,531    30,361    34,348    36,372    13,516    24.680    19,435        12,340    12,740    26,240
Unit Value                                0.37      0.32       022       018       021        0.17      0.17      0.27       0.30      0.31       0.34      0.26      0.27
Zinc .  .;::  0 itit00;00.jt tlt00 i|.;0 t; ti;000000 0 010.00  i00 i123  10zo  20.2  31.7    29.9      26.3       15.3       29.8      60.7      46.4      36.3       36.9
Volume(Pounds)                          32,347    33,177    32,390    51.114    68,902    77,022    81,276    39,967    56,194    85,360    69,230    74,160    73,890
UnitValue                                 0.31      0.37       0.37      039       0.46       0.39      0.32      0.38       0.53      071        0.67      049       0.50
Nontradltlonal Expor + Otber,             174.9   .155.4       111.8     128.7      130.5     134.4     122.3      105.7     107.1     124.5      114.9     138.1     163.9
(value customs bauis, FOB)
Merchandise Exports, I/                   8221      753.6      654.6     671.8     725.3      765.2     861.5      781.6     841.9     s5s.$      831.0     792.4       d06
(value customs bais, FOB)                                                                                               841.9
Merchandise Exports (BOP baus)             850.3     783.8     676.5      698.6       737      795.8       894     821.8     881.1      903.2     886.9      837.5    .842.6
Adjuatments 2V                          28.2       30.2      21.9      26.8       11.7      30.6      32.5      40.2       39.2      44.7       55.9      45.1      36.6
Memo:
Expoiof ONFS                              943.2      885.3     768.5     802.8      849.3     911.5    1013.8      955.9    1037.7    1074.s    104.4    1049.0    1103.0
(PercitcOrne)         .;                            4 1       -13.2      45         58        7.3       1L12      -57        8.6        3.5      .2.7       0.3       5.1
Note:
1/ Mrchuaise Expols are custofns basis (1970-92). 'Nontraditional - 'Merchandise Exports' - *Traditional. Merchandise exports
BOP basis includes exports of gold and electincity and other adjustments. Export and import data was revised by GOH for penod of 1985-92.
2/ Includes adjustmant foe unecorded exports, gold and dlecticity.
Source: Estudios Econ&nicos, Banco Cenril de Honduras



