                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000187




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (LOAN 4455-IND; CREDIT 3188-IND)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$47.9 MILLION

                                    AND

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.7 MILLION
                       (EQUIVALENT TO US$15.9 MILLION)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    FOR A

      SULAWESI AND EASTERN ISLANDS BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                January 4, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 2006)
                               Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
                                RP 1 million = US$ 109.53
                                    US$ 1.00 = RP 9,130


                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APBD       Local (district) budget              Dinas P&K     Local government office for
APBN       National budget                                    MONE
Bappeda    Bappeda Regional                     GOI           Government of Indonesia
           development planning board           ICR           Implementation Completion
Bappenas   National development                               Report
           planning agency                      KPI           Key project indicators
CPCU       Central Project Coordinating         Keppres 80    Presidential decree number
           Unit                                               80/2003
DBL        School block grants for quality      MONE          Ministry of National Education
           enhancement                          MORA          Ministry of Religious Affairs
DBO        Block grants to schools issued       PCC           Provincial Coordination
           under the crisis                                   Committee
DPIU       District Project                     PDO           Project development
           Implementation Unit                                objectives
Dikdas     Directorate for primary              PPIU          Province Project
           education, MONE                                    Implementation Unit
Dikdasmen  Directorate-General for              QAG           Quality Assurance Group (The
           Primary and Secondary                              World Bank)
           Education, MONE                      SD            Primary school, grades 1-6
Dikmenum   Directorate for Secondary            SLTP          Junior secondary school,
           Education, MONE                                    grades 7-9
Dinas I    Provincial level offices of          USB           Complete new school
           local government                     UU            2004 Indonesian Education
Dinas II   District level offices of local      Sisdiknas     Law
           government



                        Vice President:     James W. Adams
                     Country Director:      Andrew D. Steer
                      Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas
                Project Team Leader:        Rosfita Roesli

                                                INDONESIA
   SULAWESI AND EASTERN ISLANDS BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT



                                                 CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 14
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 19
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 20
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 29
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 30
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance................................. 33
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 35
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 36
Annex 11. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................... 39
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 40
MAP IBRD 29790R...................................................................................................... 41

1. Basic Information

Country:                Indonesia             Project Name:           SULAWESI BASIC
                                                                      EDUCATION
                                                                      AUSL-29819,IBRD-

Project ID:             P041895               L/C/TF Number(s):       44550,IDA-
                                                                      31880,NETH-
                                                                      23864,NETH-29898
ICR Date:               01/04/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      INDONESIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 63.8M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 60.5M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies
Ministry of National Education
Co-financiers and Other External Partners



2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:         03/13/1998   Effectiveness:        05/26/1999        05/26/1999
Appraisal:              09/25/1998   Restructuring(s):     05/03/2002        05/03/2002
Approval:               04/08/1999   Mid-term Review:      11/01/2001        05/23/2003
                                     Closing:              04/30/2006        04/30/2006




3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                        Yes     Quality at Entry (QEA):          Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                             Yes     Quality of Supervision (QSA):    Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:          Satisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               11                 11
Sub-national government administration                           3                 8
Primary education                                               38                 38
Secondary education                                             38                 38
Tertiary education                                              10                 5
                                                          Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary          Primary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction         Secondary         Secondary
Social analysis and monitoring                               Secondary         Secondary
Education for all                                             Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                Positions                           At ICR                At Approval
Vice President:                           James W. Adams           Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                         Andrew D. Steer          Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:                           Christopher J. Thomas    Alan Ruby
Project Team Leader:                      Rosfita Roesli           Haneen Ismail Sayed
ICR Team Leader:                          Rosfita Roesli
ICR Primary Author:                       Robert L. McGough




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

In early 1999, the GOI determined that the economic crisis would have a significant negative
impact on education participation by the poor, as well as the ability of schools in those areas to
operate effectively. Higher food and transportation costs coupled with increasing unemployment
and under-employment were likely to threaten the living standards of many. The poor families
were increasingly unable to afford the costs of education for their children. Based on lessons
learned during previous economic downfalls, the GOI decided that immediate action must be
taken if access to, and quality of, basic education were to be maintained.

The GOI established a goal to have a system where: (a) all children successfully complete at least
9 years of education; (b) management and delivery of basic education will be the responsibility of
the local government (Bupati) but with strong monitoring and oversight by the Ministry of
National Education (formerly Ministry of Education and Culture); (c) schools will have more
autonomy over their budgets and staff; (d) teacher allocation and distribution will be more
equitable and will be supported by incentives for good teaching; (e) an ongoing in-service teacher
training program will be established; (f) a planning approach will be strongly associated with
school mapping; and (g) parents and communities will become active in school participation
where they will be given responsibility and resources for school maintenance and rehabilitation.
Working with the Bank (Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, 1998), the GOI
determined that the current ineffective institutional arrangements were major constraints to
achieving these goals. More specifically, it was determined that:

· Implementation of primary education was the legal responsibility of several government
    agencies. This resulted in a lack of accountability;
· Management of junior secondary education was overly centralized. This resulted in
    inappropriate allocation of resources, and a lack of effective M&E and intervention where
    problems existed;
· Principals and lower level managers had little autonomy. This resulted in ineffective school
    management;
· The schools were operated through a fragmented and rigid budgetary process;
· The civil service incentive system did not adequately reward good teaching practices. It also
    led to an uneven allocation of teachers in schools; and
· There was little community involvement in primary and junior secondary education.

In addition, it was found that many graduates were leaving basic education with low quality skills
in numeracy, reading and problem-solving. A number of reasons were identified as follows:

· The current teacher corps contained large numbers of poorly trained teachers;
· The school provided inadequate time-on-task in all grades, but especially in grades 1 and 2;
· There was insufficient resources, particularly for schools in poor communities and in many
    private junior secondary schools;
· There were low levels of access to, and quality of, textbooks and other instructional
    materials;
· The current curriculum was ineffective;
· At all levels of basic education, the student learning assessment approaches and instruments
    were inadequate; and
· There was insufficient M&E of quality in basic education.


                                                  3

The poor also had low primary school completion rates and it was noted that there was a low
demand by the poor for enrollment in junior secondary education. The identified factors for this
finding were:

· Late entry of students in the early grades and high repetition rates;
· Bottom income families could not afford the relative high direct and indirect costs for
    primary and junior secondary schools;
· Poor families had uncertainty about the benefits of junior secondary education in the labor
    market. This reduced participation;
· GOI found that it was unable to finance the costs for expanding access to junior secondary
    schools without the inclusion of the less efficient private schools; and
· There were inefficiencies related to teacher allocation and incentives that made the delivery
    of basic education more costly than it need be.

All of these factors and constraints were, in one way or another, exacerbated by the economic
crisis. The GOI realized, at the onset, that the costs of intervention and development would be
high. For this reason, the GOI decided to turn to donors and multi-lateral lenders for short-turn
assistance during the time of the crisis. The Bank has a long history of experience in the
Education Sector of Indonesia. It also has a long-term commitment to the provision of support
for development of basic education. With its extensive, in-country presence, the Bank was well
positioned to respond quickly with assistance to the GOI to address the above mentioned needs.
This project is one of three (the other two being the West Java Basic Education Project and the
Sumatra Basic Education Project) that were financed by the Bank to specifically address the
above problems.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

A. To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and operation of
    primary and junior secondary schools by:
    1. Maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from
        primary to junior secondary for the poor;
    2. Preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
        operational maintenance costs; and
    3. Realizing efficiency gains where possible.

B. To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of:
    1. Improving quality of basic education (grades 1 ­ 9); and
    2. Decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation effectively to
        districts and below.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
    reasons/justification

PDOs were not revised. KPIs were revised as part of the 2002 amendment of the DCA and Loan
Agreement. The KPIs were expanded to provide a more accurate estimate of PDO achievement.
See Section 6.6 for a more detailed discussion of the reasons/justification for the revisions.




                                                  4

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The major beneficiaries include: (a) school age children, especially poor children who are enabled
by the project to remain in school during the worst crisis periods. These children also benefit
from quality improvements in basic education service delivery; (b) teachers, principals,
supervisors, tutors, and other education personnel at the district level and below. These educators
would be expected to benefit from gained skills, knowledge and resources provided by the
project; and (c) communities and parents who would become more closely involved with the
schools in their areas.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

A. Crisis Relief, included: 1. Scholarships; 2. School Grant; and 3. Training for School
Committees.

B. Institutional Development, included: 1. Strengthening Education Management through: (a)
school mapping; (b) five year integrated plan at all levels covering (i) school location, (ii) teacher
training/ support, (iii) provision of books/ teaching aids, (iv) promotion of community
participation; (c) organization and staffing assessment of all levels; (d) capacity enhancement
through (i) staff training (ii) carrying out student assessment and project impact evaluation and
(iii) office equipment; 2. Strengthening project management capacity through: (a) regular
reporting/ monitoring; (b) technical audit; (c) project management training; and (d) office
equipment; and 3. Preparation activities for teacher policy reforms.

C. Quality Enhancement included: 1. School consolidation; 2. School rehabilitation and
maintenance; 3. Provision of books for supplementary reading etc.; 4. Training for: (i) trainers,
(ii) teachers and library managers, (iii) school principals and supervisors, (iv)community leaders;
5. Employment of 800 contract teachers; and 6. Grants for Private Schools.

6.6 Revised Components

As with the KPIs mentioned in Section 6.3, there were significant revisions made in the project
components through the provisions of the 2002 Amendment to the Loan Agreement and the
DCA. The project was designed at a time when the GOI decentralization efforts/outcomes were
unpredictable. The Decentralization Law (UU No. 22) was passed in 1999, the same year as
project effectiveness, and during the early period of project implementation, the Dinas Pendidikan
(District Education Offices) were themselves just learning about their new roles in the
decentralization process. As a result, there was considerable confusion at the district and province
levels, making it difficult to know what activity belongs to what component and how that activity
contributed to a specific PDO.

The revised design maintained most of the activities and re-grouped those activities to show the
GOI focus at the district level with support provided by province and national center. Original
activities that were not continued after restructuring were: (a) training for teachers/supervisors
etc; (b) grants for private schools; and (c) provision of books for supplementary reading etc.
These projects adjustments should not be attributed to the quality of the initial project design, but
instead should be seen as the result of the changing economic environment and the significant
adjustments that the GOI was implementing during this period of time.




                                                   5

The revised components are as follows:

A. District Education Program - 1. School Improvement Program, through (a) rehabilitation
grants, and (b) grant for quality improvement (learning materials, teacher training etc.); 2.
Contract Teachers; 3. Updating of School Maps; 4. Private School Grants; and 5. Support
services, including (a) district three-year plans; (b) training for school committees; and (c)
monitoring and evaluation by districts.

B. Provincial Support For District Education Program - 1. Upgrading for Education
Professionals; and 2. Support for District Programs, including (a) training for district managers on
project activities, (b) technical assistance for project implementers, and (c) in-country study tour.

C. Central Support For District Education Program - 1. Support to District Education
Program Activities through training and in-country study tours; and 2. District-level Teacher
Management and Teacher Support Services.

D. Crisis Relief - 1. Scholarships; 2. School Block Grants; and 3. Training.

6.7 Other significant changes

At the time of restructuring (2002), the project no longer had ongoing activities that were directly
associated with teacher training. The cascade teacher training activities were dropped, following
the findings during a mission in 2000 which showed their ineffectiveness. Proposals for pilot
district-level teacher management and teacher support services were also eventually dropped due
to failure between the Bank and MONE to reach agreement on an acceptable model for
implementation. There was also a shift from a supply-driven development approach in favor of a
more demand-driven approach that featured school block grants given directly to schools
(including private schools) which they can then use to obtain required development inputs
(books/ training etc).

The Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were amended a second time
on July 23, 2004 to support changes in budget allocation and refinement of key performance
indicators; however the focus of the project and the PDOs were not changed. The project's
closing date was not extended. The scope and scale of the project was not changed in any
significant way.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Initial project identification and design were generally well conceived and implemented. Early
project documentation was satisfactory. The design was comprehensive and was based on a
number of specific lessons learned from past and ongoing projects (for a full list of lessons
learned and associated projects see page 11 of PAD). In particular, the project sought to
decentralize the decision-making processes to the lowest effective level and supported school
construction and improvements through block grants, a proven approach to decentralized
financing in Indonesia. For this reason, the project design featured significant community
participation.




                                                   6

Although restructured in 2002 (section 6.6), it was found that the original design was satisfactory.
It was clearly based on the needs identified at the time of preparation. Simply stated, these needs
changed as a result of the GOI focus on decentralization and the project design was modified to
meet those needs. The project team's early response to changing needs and flexibility in project
design/implementation should be positively noted. Following the restructuring of the project, the
design was considered more adequate by both the GOI and the Bank.

Risks and Mitigation. A substantial effort was made to identify risks to effective project
implementation and then to prescribe measures that would be taken to minimize those risks (for a
full list of these risks and the prescribed measures, see page 15 of the PAD). These risks were
generally looked after during M&E and are often discussed in the ISRs and other documentation
associated with project implementation. It should be noted that virtually all of the
implementation problems were adequately identified as potential risks in the PAD.

The project was plagued by management and procurement problems, and in this regard, it must
be said that the project's risk mitigation strategies were not as effective as they might have been.
There were some mitigating factors that should be noted. The economic crisis certainly brought
forth implementation problems that were not predictable and they were hard to address. This was
due, in part to shortages of labor, and shortages of counterpart funds at appropriate project levels.
Another was the unpredictable levels of project management competence and staff turnover at the
district and lower levels.

Project Preparation. Project preparation was also well planned and implemented. Strong
emphasis was placed on M&E. The task team sought and was able to obtain strong participation
from the Borrower during project preparation. This enabled the project to prepare a project with
substantial commitment from all levels of the Government (national, provincial, and district and
community levels). Since the project was designed to decentralize much of the decision-making
authority to the lowest effective level, this effort was particularly important to the success of the
project. For these reasons, the ICR rates the quality at entry to be satisfactory.

7.2 Implementation

Although generally successful, the implementation of this project was difficult.

The project became effective in 1999, the same year when the new Decentralization Law (UU No
22) was officially issued. Under the new law, the responsibility for the management of Basic
Education was delegated from the Central Government to the District Government. This unclarity
of roles affected early project implementation.

There were also recurring concerns about: (a) ineffective project management; (b) weak project
procurement; (c) lack of adequate GOI staffing; and (d) delayed counterpart funding allocations
as required by the project. Although these concerns were identified when they came up and
were addressed by the task team, they continued to reappear at various times during project
implementation.

After project restructuring in 2002, the project effectively introduced the use of block grant to
schools for the rehabilitation and quality to support School Based Management. This simpler,
more targeted approach clearly improved project implementation. It also provided better linkage
between the various component activities and the performance indicators. It also allowed the




                                                    7

Bank and GOI to have better focus during supervision and to place more emphasis on the
effective achievement of the PDOs.

In early 2002, the responsibility for task management/supervision was moved from Washington
to the Jakarta Field Office. The Jakarta task team was able to develop a unique formal and
informal relationship with the Borrower's counterpart implementation teams. This allowed the
implementation of the project to be discussed formally as required by Bank procedures, and also
informally between respected colleagues representing both the Bank and the Borrower. The
result was that problems were, for the most part, quickly discovered and dealt with in a
collaborative environment that resulted in quality improvements in project implementation. This
opportunity for close oversight added significantly to the M&E required to effectively implement
this project.

The mid-term review was conducted on 5/23/2003, during which several implementation,
procurement, staffing, and local counterpart funding problems were identified and effectively
addressed. Although project management and procurement problems again surfaced in 2004 and
2005, there is strong evidence in the project files that the task team effectively monitored project
implementation, and provided substantial inputs to maintain the quality of the project.

There is also evidence that Bank management was effective in following up to ensure that
resolution had been gained for all of the identified issues. As management found that the project's
risk mitigation strategies were not working, particularly in the areas of project management and
procurement, it stepped in to require that a Management Action Plan be established that would
address all the problems. This was done effectively and resulted in the project being brought
back to satisfactory level of performance (ISR, 05/12/2005).

This project is a good example of a project that could have failed, but instead, was guided through
implementation by good task team management, M&E and senior management oversight to a
satisfactory completion.

The ICR rates project implementation satisfactory.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Performance Indicators mentioned in the original Credit Agreement (April 99), were not easy
to measure and were designed with an assumption that a more specific measurement system
would be established later. Due to lack of socialization and low capacity at the sub-national level,
this did not take place. For example, one of the indicators of the Institutional Development
component was: Improvement of assessment score on each annual plan submitted (assessment
criteria to be determined), and the source of data was to be the assessment made by PCC
(Provincial Coordination Committee). Until the second year of the project, no assessment criteria
were discussed and the PCC was not aware of their role in conducting the assessment of the
district plan. Up to that point, the M&E process must be judged unsatisfactory and, for that
reason, the need to improve M&E became one of the primary reasons that the task team chose to
restructure the project. The restructuring resulted in more measurable indicators.

As the project progressed, the M&E system became more refined and it did begin to meet the
needs of the project. During project preparation, M&E specialists were specifically assigned to
the Banks project task team for that purpose. The M&E design provided for a full range of
monitoring activities, strong documentation, and formative evaluations of the project. For the



                                                  8

sake of efficiency, the task team typically fielded supervision missions to review both this project
and the Sumatra Basic Education Project, which is similar in scope and design. This approach
had many advantages. It was less costly and more time efficient to use one team to look at both
projects. Due to the cost savings incurred, it provided more opportunity for field visits and in-
depth supervision activities to support both projects. It also provided opportunities for the project
to see and work with two comparable projects during implementation, thus learning from the
successes and failures of one project to the benefit of the other.

The project had well defined objectives and a strong implementation plan. The Key Project
Indicators (KPI) were comprehensive, related specifically to the PDOs and had strong
quantitative requirements. In the PAD, each of these KPIs was associated with a specific,
documented strategy for M&E. In some, critical assumptions were also noted. Where
appropriate, baseline measurement criteria were also established.

During project implementation, the M&E of project performance was central to each supervision
mission and subsequent discussion with the Borrower. The KPIs were updated as per Bank
procedures, and there is ample evidence in the ISRs and the project files that they played an
important role in the quality of project implementation. For these reasons, the ICR rates the M&E
design, implementation, and utilization as satisfactory.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

In general, the project complied with the fiduciary requirements of the loan and credit
agreements. There were a few cases where Bank and Government auditors reported a lack of
compliance in the areas of financial management and procurement, especially at the district and
school levels. It was later found that most of these concerns resulted from poor record keeping of
expenditures financed by the Bank. In some cases the audit concerns were not reconciled and the
Bank was forced to ask for refund against those expenditures.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

MONE uses a semi-formal process to manage the transition of project activities into regular
operations. Each project activity must first be fully completed under the project's budget. After
completion, each project activity must be reviewed and inspected by the Ministry, or its
designated agency to ensure that all project objectives have been met for that activity, including
required civil works and the procurement of goods and services. Unfinished work and quality
concerns noted during this process must be corrected with the oversight of the Ministry, before
final acceptance and transition to regular operations is allowed. Once the acceptance agreement
is reached between all parties, the new institutions, upgraded institutions, new staff, etc. will be
shifted to appropriate regular budgets as required by MONE/province/district operational
policies. This transition arrangement is well facilitated because individuals, responsible for
regular operations, have been selected as implementation managers within the project. As these
activities become fully implemented within the project, the individual managers take over more
and more responsibility for their transition into regular operations. This approach has proven to
be effective and without issue. All project activities, suitable for transitioning, are now fully
transitioned into regular operations.

There are reasons to be optimistic about the potential for sustainability at the central level. Many
project models are now adopted as national policy for central funded activities. However, at the
district level the potential for sustainability remains mixed. The project anticipated this,



                                                   9

recognizing that the situation at the district level is changing rapidly (Section 6.6). As a result,
KPI targets were realistically adjusted as needs changed. These targets were all met by the end of
the project.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This project supported specific sector-related goals of GOI (Indonesia, Short Renstra Education
Finance Note) and the Country Assistance Strategy (No. 18963 ­ IND, paras. 36 and 49). These
included short term goals to reinforce social safety nets through the delivery of improved basic
education services to the poor, and in the medium term, the strengthening of human resource
development in rural areas by decentralizing key decision making to the lowest efficient level
(district and community). Also associated with this goal, the project sought to improve
institutional development in basic education, and the internal and external efficiency of basic
education through wide scale quality improvements in those areas.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO1: To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and
operation of primary and junior secondary schools by: (a) maintaining primary and junior
secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from primary to junior secondary for the poor;
(b) preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
operational maintenance costs; and (c) realizing efficiency gains where possible.

This specific PDO was addressed mainly through the Scholarships and Grant program (SGP
1998-2003). This program provided junior secondary scholarships and DBO's for both primary
and junior secondary schools to cover operational costs throughout the 5 year crisis period. Data
from the Ministry of National Education (MONE) illustrates that, to a large degree, the project
was able to meet or exceed all of the performance indicators associated with this objective,
namely: (i) the net enrollment rate in each project's districts was maintained throughout SGP; (ii)
the transition rates from primary to junior secondary in each project's districts did not decline
over the life of SGP; and (iii) for each year of the program, 95% of schools that participated in the
SGP remained open.

PDO2: To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of: (a) improving
quality of basic education (grades 1 ­ 9); and (b) continue GOI strategy to decentralize
educational planning, management and implementation effectively to districts and below.

To implement improvements in quality (PDO2(a)), five related activities were implemented:

1. Mapping of Schools has provided an accurate blueprint of schools and their needs. The results
    of this activity were used in selecting schools to participate in the other five activities;
2. School Rehabilitation for Primary Schools (including classroom furniture) has provided a
    better learning environment to students who had previously conducted their learning in very
    poor and unsafe facilities;
3. School Quality Block grants have enabled schools to obtain long-needed learning materials,
    especially books and teaching aids and allow for more active learning to increasingly replace
    passive learning as more students have access to books and teachers use the available
    teaching and exhibition aids;



                                                   10

 4. The Employment of Contract Teachers have allowed districts to deploy teachers to fill gaps
    in the staffing of more remote schools; and
 5. Teacher Certification for Madrasah Teachers has enabled them to improve their
    qualifications.

To implement decentralized planning, management and implementation effectively to districts
and below (PDO2(b)), the project supported decentralized planning, management and
implementation especially at the district and school level. Each district is now required to prepare
a three-year plan reflecting their priorities in budget allocations. Use of school mapping, another
planning tool implemented under this project, is required by the districts to allocate resources
available through this project, as well as from other sources, in rehabilitating dilapidated schools
in their respective areas. The three-year plan was also a requirement for school receiving quality
block grants under the project.

Evidence from project monitoring increasingly indicates that project districts and school
communities are becoming much more active in their roles as stakeholders in education planning
and management. While this is to be expected at the district level as districts are now required by
law to take responsibility for all levels of education below tertiary (with the exception of those
delivered under the auspices of the Ministry of Religious Affairs), there is substantial evidence of
enthusiastic participation in the management of school affairs, particularly those associated with
rehabilitation. Based on the grant models first piloted in the three Basic Education Projects as
well as in the Bank's three Junior Secondary Education Projects, community managed grants to
schools have been introduced across many centrally financed education programs at both basic
and secondary levels. When the MONE disbursed School Operational Fund (BOS) from the oil
subsidy compensation (PKPS BBM) to all schools in the country, project schools found that
administrative skills they learned from managing the quality block grant to be very useful in
carrying out the new task.

Under each project, each school that receives funding for rehabilitation forms a team that includes
community members and this team then manages the planning, execution and monitoring of the
rehabilitation activity. This mechanism has resulted, in the majority of cases, in construction of
superior quality, and much lower price, than would have been the case had contractors been used.

Furthermore, as school committees have become more established across the country (replacing
the previous Parent/Teacher bodies, BP3) growing evidence from both government and donor
financed projects suggests that community involvement in education is shifting from
'contribution' to 'participation'. Although progress in this area is being made under each project, it
is widely understood that efforts to improve district and school-based governance and
management must continue and be strengthened if they are to have a lasting impact on the quality
of planning, management and content of education programs.

8.3 Efficiency

Efficiency estimates and comparisons were not calculated for this project.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.




                                                   11

The project was judged to have met all of its development objectives. This assessment was based
on: (a) satisfactory project outcomes and outputs as measured by the KPIs, including a finding
that, even during stressful periods caused by the economic crisis, net enrollment rates (NER) for
the target provinces have been maintained or have gone up in basic education during the
implementation of the project (Annex 1); (b) strong Government commitment and participation
was experienced throughout the implementation of the project; (c) strong public and private
school participation; (d) effective interagency coordination by provincial and district agencies; (e)
indications of local community satisfaction with the overall implementation of the project and its
outcomes; and (f) indications of continued sustainability for long term project activities.

It was also judged that the PDOs were fully consistent with the Bank's current country and sector
assistance strategies. The GOI also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms (Section
8.5) and continues to place strong priority for continued improvements in access and quality
throughout the education sector, and plans to systematically increase budgets to support those
improvements.

Based on the above findings, the overall outcomes of the project are rated as satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The institutional changes noted below (Section 8.5(b)) resulted in an equitable access in the
enrollment of girls and boys in the target schools. As the project's scholarships programs were
targeted on the poor students in the target schools, there is anecdotal evidence to suggest that
there was a modest impact on poverty was also found in the families receiving scholarships for
their children.

The projects poverty focus was strictly exercised in the selection of schools receiving project
intervention, especially school rehabilitation. Using the school mapping, only under-resourced
schools serving poor communities were selected to receive the rehabilitation.

The policy reforms also supported significant decentralization of decision-making down to the
community level. This effort introduced improved efficiency to many school projects, but it also
empowered communities to make advances in their own social development. As a result, the
project saw communities decide to: (a) keep schools open longer to serve both children and
adults; (b) expand the services to include school libraries; (c) establish school beautification and
landscaping programs for their schools; (e) establish volunteer programs to support schools and
community development; and (f) accept contractual responsibility for school upgrading and
establishment using local workers which in turn, provided significant employment and available
income within the community. This income contributed to the alleviation of poverty in those
communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project supported substantial sector-wide policy development and reform, including: (a) the
decentralization of school management; (b) the introduction school block funding schemes; (c)
schemes for increased community participation in school establishment, upgrading and operation;
(d) the use of student scholarships to support students from poor families; (e) the use of school
mapping to support education management; (f) the use of contract teachers to support rural
schools where there were teacher shortages; and (g) the introduction of community participation



                                                 12

models for school rehabilitation. These policy reforms, and the activities noted above (Section
8.5(a)), also resulted in increased student access and improvements in instructional quality.
Macro-economic policies were not specifically addressed in the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

At the beginning, the project met some opposition from local contractors who felt that their
business opportunities were constrained by the introduction of community participation method.
For the most part, local project teams were able to effectively address these concerns during the
project. This issue should probably be seen as a lesson learned regarding the use of community
participation method. When the community becomes empowered, some businesses and
industries may feel threatened. That concern should be addressed in design of future projects.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops were not held for the project.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or Negligible.

An accurate assessment of risk during the earlier years of the project would probably have
resulted in a much higher rating than it would now. The economy has improved. As a
consequence, there has been a significant increase of funding made available to MONE. There
has also been a plethora of significant policy reforms that came about as a result of lessons
learned from the implementation of a series of basic education and other projects financed by the
Bank, ADB, and other bi- and multi-lateral organizations.

At the policy level, the Government remains strongly committed to the education sector. In
particular, it places a national priority on primary and junior secondary education, and sees those
sub-sectors as important intellectual and social development assets. At the ministry level, there is
a strong commitment to the systematic, long-term development of basic education. The project's
outcomes are strongly linked to the Government's long-term development goals, and the project-
supported policy reforms have all been adopted by MONE.

There has also been significant legal reform in the education sector since the beginning of the
project. An example may be seen in UU Sisdiknas 2004 and Keppres 80/2003 which provide the
legal basis for continuing block grant as a mechanism to channel funds to schools, allowing
project-introduced activities such as school rehabilitation, USB and quality block grants to be
continued under APBN and ABPD funding. Although some districts have yet to adopt the block
grant mechanism, especially for school rehabilitation, MONE has already adopted block grants as
one of its preferred means of channeling funds to schools and districts. For this reason, it appears
that this project mechanism will be encouraged and may be eventually institutionalized and
sustained.

The Bank also has a substantial history of project financing in the education sector in Indonesia.
In virtually all Bank-financed projects in the sector, the Government has consistently
demonstrated a strong commitment to sustainability in education. Currently, all project
institutions and remaining project activities are fully funded from local or national budgets.




                                                  13

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was not assessed at entry by QAG.

The ICR found that the identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions were
appropriately staffed, well managed and generally effective. Project negotiations were also well
planned, managed and implemented. Evidence of this effectiveness may be seen in the Bank
teams' ability to adhere to a rapid processing schedule that was necessary to support the Borrower
during the financial crisis.

The identification and preparations missions were able to assist the Borrower to produce a
thorough and comprehensive project design that did not change much during the subsequent
stages of project preparation and implementation. A number of working papers were produced
and provided significant input to the preparation of the project. To support quality improvement
of basic education, the preparation missions paid special attention to the holistic integration of
equipment, facilities, pedagogy, curricula and staff development into the project design, and the
need for the project to be flexible in a time of economic crisis.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The supervision teams were well staffed and their aide memoirs (written jointly with Government
team) were well prepared. It was also found that the supervision teams consistently monitored the
fiduciary aspects of the project. The KPIs were reviewed and updated during each supervision
mission.

The project was linked with other similar, on-going basic education projects with commonly
defined objectives. Joint project supervision missions were fielded to maximize available
mission expertise, and to provide opportunities for better articulation in the Banks dialogue with,
and recommendations to, the Borrower. Since that time, the supervision of the project has
steadily improved and has become more efficient and effective.

The Jakarta based supervision team also conducted additional missions throughout the year
(jointly with the government teams, involving in-depth discussions with project managers at all
levels, and government follow up to the problems found during the field visits.

Procurement has been a chronic problem throughout the implementation of the project. The
supervision team has carefully monitored the implementation of this activity and when necessary,
acted quickly to protect the Government and the Bank's interests. Evidence of this may be seen
in the supervision team's recommendations to require the Borrower to repay ineligible expenses
to the project special account (MACON case). In other cases, concerns raised by the Bank
regarding the performance of the central project management unit have assisted MoNE to make




                                                  14

the necessary adjustments to the unit's personnel. This enhanced unit was able to bring the project
to a successful closure.

A review of the PSRs/ISRs and their associated aide memoires will reveal that there have been
many other problems that were effectively addressed by the supervision teams through close
collaboration with the Borrower. In all cases, specific actions were agreed upon, with the
Government, to bring the project back inline with the implementation plan.

Relations with the Borrower have been strongly collaborative and productive. Supervision
missions, in approximate six month intervals, were most often timely and adequately staffed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

As mentioned above, this project has been challenging for the Bank to support. Although well
designed and organized initially, there have been many project management and other
implementation issues which were, in part, brought about by the effects of decentralization and
the financial crisis. There is evidence that the Bank management and project teams made
substantial efforts to address the changing needs that were brought on by this situation. Project
documentation clearly reveals that the project team stayed focused on the PDOs and effectively
used M&E and the KPIs to measure project success as required by Bank guidelines. This was
particularly true after the restructuring of the KPIs (2002). They also exhibited a willingness to be
flexible, while at the same time maintaining the required rigor of project implementation. The end
result was that most of the project issues were addressed in ways that allowed for the successful
completion of the PDOs as measured by the KPIs. There is also significant evidence that the
policy reforms recommended in the project were accepted by the GOI and there is reason to
assume that they will be sustained in the future.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

Note: as required by guidelines, inputs for this section (a) and the following (b) are combined in
Section 10.2 (c).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

Implementing Agency                                Performance
Ministry of National Education                     Not Applicable

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.




                                                  15

Project Identification and Preparation. As a response to the economic crisis, the Bank and the
Borrower agreed to quickly prepare and process this project. This required quick action on the
part of both the Borrower and the Bank to mobilize resources, and to select and field strong teams
to identify and prepare the project. Both the Bank and the Borrower were successful in meeting
this requirement. The Borrower's counterpart team participated actively in the preparation of the
project and was particularly effective in the Bank/Borrower's consideration of options and the
collection, organization and analysis of the data required to develop the project design. As
preparation activities were initiated, the counterpart team made many significant contributions to
the quality and scope of the project design. It has been judged that the project was adequately
designed and prepared by this combined team.

Project Implementation. Initially the CPCU, PPIUs and DPIUs experienced some disruption
when there was inadequate staffing available to effectively implement the project. The MONE
and its provincial and district agencies were slow to approve and coordinate the adequate
provision of counterpart funding and needed staff at the district level. Once this move took place,
the local DPIUs were strengthened and provided a more effective implementation of the project.
The CPCU worked closely with the Bank's task team. As the project experienced problems with
procurement, disbursement, etc., the CPCU, representing the MONE, worked in close
collaboration with the Bank to make necessary changes in the project to bring the project back on
schedule.

Procurement was a major issue, especially related to the selection of TA for school rehabilitation.
These consultancies packages were to be procured by the PPIU with the support from The CPCU.
A limited understanding of Bank procurement guidelines resulted in a major delay in the selection
of the consultant to provide TA. In 2003, the school rehabilitation program (one of key project
activities) was put on hold because of the delay in mobilizing consultants who were tasked with
providing technical and administrative assistance to the school committees. As a result, the
mobilization of consultants became a top priority of both the GOI and the Bank team, and both
parties sought to address the problem. Once the consultants were in place, the implementation of
the school rehabilitation program was accelerated and the project was back on track.

Where there was a need to adjust the implementation plan to better reflect reality, the changes
were adequately managed by the CPCU, and agreed to by the Bank. As a result, the project was
able to meet all of its development objectives while staying within budget. CPCU also
established computerized project scheduling and indicator tracking systems, M&E systems, and
other management procedures that served to enhance effectiveness of project implementation. In
its support of Bank supervision missions, the CPCU often prepared operational studies, project
performance audits, financial analyses, and architectural plans necessary to support the
supervision process. The CPCU also consistently provided advanced planning to improve Bank
efficiency during its visits to remote project sites.

11. Lessons Learned

Protecting Education during a Financial Crisis
1.   During the financial crisis, dropout rates are often low in primary school and transition to
junior secondary school is the most important attrition point in the system, particularly for the
poor. This finding suggests that during a crisis, GOI interventions may be most effective if they
target the critical transition from primary to junior secondary education. Project experience
suggests that: (a) some narrowly targeted scholarships can be given to the poorest children at the
primary level, but the bulk of the scholarships should be broadly focused on children who are



                                                   16

enrolling in junior secondary school; (b) if scholarships are given to students starting in primary
school then some continuity across school levels must be assured. For this reason, it is
recommended that SGP school-level "entitlements" to be changed to an individual-level
entitlement); (c) the pool of candidates for grade 7 scholarships should be taken from children
who complete primary school not from those who are already enrolled in grade 7; and (d) as a
result of the latter, selection of candidates should be done on the basis of an monitored
application process;

2.   During times of financial crisis, or political change, projects should be designed with a view
toward maximum flexibility, and the potential for rapid restructuring as the need arises;

Government Decentralization in Basic Education
3.   Within the framework of decentralization, the central government (MONE) has a role in
targeting strategies to address the education needs of the poorest communities if national goals for
basic education are to be achieved. There are more than 400 autonomous district governments in
Indonesia with widely different capacities and education indicators. The central government has
an important role in ensuring equity in basic education delivery, especially if the nation is to
achieve its access and quality goals for nine years basic education. MONE will need to continue
to support targeting strategies to underserved rural areas and to districts with low institutional
capacity;

4.   Incentives for decentralization should be carefully thought through, decided upon, resourced
and consistently made available, before community participation and the establishment of
decentralized education programs are begun;

Community Participation
5.   School rehabilitation using community participation method costs an average of 25% less
than the contractor method, with at least similar quality. In many cases, the rehabilitation is of
higher quality and includes more facilities (toilet, clean water, electricity, classroom furniture).
One advantage is the moral check placed upon the members of the team responsible for
implementation (TPR) as they will all continue to live and/or work in the community after the
works are completed. Should it appear later that funds had not been properly spent; they would be
held accountable by their peers. (Genuine mistakes or lack of technical competence might be
forgiven but not dishonesty);

6.   Quality (as reported by those visiting the schools) is at least equal to that expected when a
small local contractor is engaged. In addition, when a lump sum approach is used, surpluses are
not retained by the contractor but instead, can be used by the community to add quality to the
school;

School Quality Block Grant
7.   While schools are generally able to manage the block grant to purchase learning input and
materials, more assistance is required to prepare them in organizing training. This includes:
setting training objectives; ability to identify/obtain good training material and trainers; and
developing post-training activities;

Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Monitoring and Evaluation Framework should be agreed during project preparation which
includes establishing the baseline data, capacity building for district and province monitoring
staff and allocating sufficient resources for monitoring visits to project beneficiaries;



                                                   17

9.   Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project with
widely dispersed project activities and sites;

Project Design and Preparation
10. School Mapping can be an excellent technique to support education planning, but there
should be a pre-commitment to update the 'map' each year ­ thereby overcoming the potential
static nature of the process;

11. School mapping can be useful to education agencies at all levels. For instance, school
mapping may be used to provide a better understanding of: (a) inequities in resource allocations
between geographical areas; (b) physical limitations to school access (i.e. lack of roads,
infrastructure, services); (c) imbalances in district or provincial education officer assignments for
school oversight; (d) preferred locations for new school establishment, based on needs; (e)
preferred locations for school expansion to meet increasing enrollment demand; and (f)
geographic, economic, cultural, and social dimensions required in monitoring and evaluation
schemes, where there is a need to make comparisons between schools, districts and provinces;

12. There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar projects are
funded concurrently, with similar PDOs and KPIs, and managed as a single program rather than
as separate projects;

Project Management
13. The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed central project implementation
unit (CPIU) must be considered a key contributing factor to the successful implementation of any
project with widely disbursed operations;

14. Project personnel from provincial and district agencies should become more familiar with
Bank guidelines and documentation requirements. When such projects are planned, there is a
need for the Bank to provide training and implementation manuals as a part of new project start-
up. This increased understanding should prevent some conflicts between Bank guidelines and
local procurement and disbursement procedures;

Project Implementation
15. When a project has widely disbursed project sites, local administrators, coordinators and
teachers should be more fully briefed regarding the advantages of participating in the project as
well as their responsibilities;

16. The use of contract teachers has been proven to be a way to ease staffing shortages;

17. Improving learning outcomes is a complex task and it is best planned with the input from
local principals and teachers. The project found small but significant changes in teaching and
learning processes when the whole school was involved in school development planning, teachers
were able to choose books, materials and equipment and teacher training was demand driven; and

18. When technical consultants (i.e., architects, structural engineers, electrical engineers, M&E
specialists, and quantity surveyors) are selected and contracted as individuals, rather than as
teams (organizations), by the Borrower, there is a strong possibility that they may not form a
cohesive working unit so necessary in large projects. This lack of cohesion may cause delays in




                                                   18

construction, lack of architectural control over the project, and a lack of articulation between
various plans and specifications.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Borrower's comments are incorporated in Annex 10.

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                  19

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

A. To mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on basic education enrollments and operation of
    primary and junior secondary schools by:
    1. Maintaining primary and junior secondary enrollment rates and transition rates from primary
        to junior secondary for the poor;
    2. Preventing quality from deteriorating further by ensuring that school can meet essential
        operational maintenance costs; and
    3. Realizing efficiency gains where possible.

B. To support recovery and return to the medium-term education strategy of:
    1. Improving quality of basic education (grades 1 ­ 9); and
    2. Decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation effectively to districts
        and below.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDOs were not revised. KPIs were revised as part of the 2002 amendment of the DCA and Loan
Agreement. The KPIs were expanded to provide a more accurate estimate of PDO achievement. See
Section 6.6 for a more detailed discussion of the reasons/justification for the revisions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally

     Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from       Revised         Actual Value Achieved at
                                               approval          Target       Completion or Target Years
                                              documents)         Values
Indicator 1 :      Net Enrollment Rate (NER) in each project district is maintained throughout economic
                   crisis response program (1998-2003)
Value (quantitative S Sulawesi: PS NER - In S Sulawesi, S.    N/A           S Sulawesi: PS NER - 88%, JSE
or Qualitative)     86%, JSE NER - 49%; Maluku and N.                       NER - 64%; Maluku PS NER -
                    Maluku PS NER -       Maluku, maintain                  83% JSE NER - 63% N. Maluku:
                    90% JSE NER - 53% NER at, or above,                     PS NER - 99% JSE NER - 63%
                    N. Maluku: PS NER - baseline values
                    90% JSE NER - 53%
Date achieved       04/16/1999            07/01/2003          07/01/2003    07/01/2003
Comments            With the one exception (Maluku, PS) as of 2/12/2005, indicator has met or exceeded
(incl. %            baseline values
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Transition rate from Primary to junior secondary in each project does not decline over the
                   life of the program (1998-2003)
Value               S. Sulawesi - 90%     In S Sulawesi, S.   N/A           S Sulawesi -80% Maluku - 52%
(quantitative or    Maluku: n/d N.        Maluku and N.                     N. Maluku - 90%
Qualitative)        Maluku: n/d           Maluku, maintain
                                          NER at, or above,
                                          baseline values
Date achieved       04/16/1999            04/16/1999          04/16/1999    07/01/2003
Comments (incl.     With the one exception (Maluku, PS) as of 2/12/2005, indicator was met or exceeded
% achievement)      baseline values



                                                   20

Indicator 3 :    Each year of the crisis relief program, 95% of schools that receive DBO remain open
                 (1998-2003)
Value             0                      5% closures          N/A            GOI reported that no registered
(quantitative or                                                             schools closed during the crisis
Qualitative)                                                                 period due to the ability to meet
                                                                             operational costs
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999           04/16/1999     07/01/2003
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by 5%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    By the end of FY2004, 50% of all school mergers, which have been recommended in
                 school consolidation plans, will have been carried out
Value             0                      50%                  N/A            Of a total of 838 schools mergers
(quantitative or                                                             planned, 71% have been
Qualitative)                                                                 completed
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999           04/16/1999     02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator target of 50% was exceeded by 21%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    >90% rehab schools meet technical specifications
Value             0                      >90%                 N/A            Exceeded: 661 schools
(quantitative or                                                             rehabilitated. Survey of 552
Qualitative)                                                                 schools showed over 96% met
                                                                             technical specifications.
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999           04/16/1999     02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 6%.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    75% of rehabilitated schools will show an increase of 10% in new student registration
                 without decreasing private school enrollment, or at least 10% increase in attendance after 2
                 years
Value             0                      75% of               N/A            656 schools were rehabilitated in
(quantitative or                         rehabilitated                       the project. In a survey of 307
Qualitative)                             schools will                        schools, 11% of the schools met
                                         increase enrollment                 the target. The rests showed some
                                         by10%                               increase in enrollment, but had
                                                                             not reached the 10% target
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999           04/16/1999     02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Only 11% of the rehabilitated schools met the target of 10% enrollment increase as
achievement)      compared to the target of 75%
Indicator 7 :    At least 75% of the teachers participating in teacher certification complete their training
                 successfully and teach subject(s) in which they have been certified.
Value             -                      75%                  N/A            Exceeded: 826 teachers certified.
(quantitative or                                                             Survey of 438 teachers shows
Qualitative)                                                                 92% meet this target
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999           04/16/1999     02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 17%
achievement)
Indicator 8 :    90% of all contract teachers teach subjects that reflect school needs
Value             -                      90%                  N/A            Within population of 797
(quantitative or                                                             contract teachers, sample of 336
Qualitative)                                                                 teachers were surveyed. Findings
                                                                             indicated that 96% of sample are
                                                                             teaching subjects that reflect
                                                                             school needs



                                                   21

Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 6%
achievement)
Indicator 9 :    > 75% of contract teachers have good performance (as assessed by the head teacher) > 75%
                 of contract teachers have good performance (as assessed by the head teacher)
Value             -                      >75%                   N/A              Exceeded: 563 contract teachers.
(quantitative or                                                                 Survey of 291 schools show 99%
Qualitative)                                                                     of head teachers were satisfied
                                                                                 with contract teacher
                                                                                 performance
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 24%
achievement)
Indicator 10 :   By the end of the project, 90% of all district plans show direct evidence of use of annual
                 school mapping data
Value             -                      90%                    N/A              Achieved: All districts in the
(quantitative or                                                                 three districts in the three
Qualitative)                                                                     provinces are using school
                                                                                 mapping data in their annual
                                                                                 plans
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator exceeded by about 10%
achievement)
Indicator 11 :   By the end of the project in all districts, district level staff are responsible for selecting
                 project recipients and actively monitoring program implementation
Value             -                      Some evidence of N/A                    Maluku ­ 100% of current staff
(quantitative or                         sustained                               now responsible for monitoring
Qualitative)                             commitment in all                       program implementation. In S.
                                         districts                               Sulawesi ­ 67% N. Maluku ­
                                                                                 40%
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator generally achieved in the provinces, but with varying success within the districts
achievement)
Indicator 12 :   By the end of the project, 60% of project districts adopt or sustain at least 3 of 5 mngmt
                 models introduced by the project (rehab by comm, block grants, teacher certification,
                 contract teachers, & mapping
Value             -                      60%                    n/a              Achieved: 50% (17 out of 34) of
(quantitative or                                                                 districts in three provinces
Qualitative)                                                                     adopted 3 or more management
                                                                                 models
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Although not fully achieved, outcome was significant
achievement)
Indicator 13 :   By the end of the project, at least 75% of schools that receive (quality) block grants will
                 produce school plans that clear link (learner) needs and inputs
Value             -                      75%                    N/A              Exceeded: 2,327 schools received
(quantitative or                                                                 grants. 82% of 1949 schools
Qualitative)                                                                     surveyed have school plans that
                                                                                 link needs and inputs
Date achieved     04/16/1999             04/16/1999              04/16/1999      02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 24%
achievement)



                                                  22

Indicator 14 :   Of the schools that receive (Quality) Block Grants, 80% of the School Block Grant team
                 participants will participate actively in the management of the block grants
Value             -                       80%                  N/A         Exceeded: 2,155 schools received
(quantitative or                                                           grants. 94% of 809 schools
Qualitative)                                                               surveyed had their School Block
                                                                           Grant team actively involved in
                                                                           the management of the grants
Date achieved     04/16/1999              04/16/1999           04/16/1999  02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator was exceeded by about 14%
achievement)
Indicator 15 :   Of the schools that receive DBL or rehabilitation grants, by the end of the project, 90% of
                 the school committees will be actively monitoring program implementation in their
                 respective schools
Value             -                       90%                  N/A         Achieved: 2155 schools received
(quantitative or                                                           grants. 90% of 809 schools
Qualitative)                                                               surveyed had their school
                                                                           committee actively involved in
                                                                           the monitoring and management
                                                                           of the grants
Date achieved     04/16/1999              04/16/1999           04/16/1999  02/12/2005
Comments (incl. % Indicator target was achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                     Baseline      Original Target Values
    Indicator                                                  Formally Revised    Actual Value Achieved at
                      Value            (from approval
                                         documents)             Target Values    Completion or Target Years

Indicator 1 :     The Result Framework did not indicate IO




                                                   23

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at
Restructuring   Board                      Amount Disbursed at      Reason for
                            Restructuring
    Date(s)  Approved PDO                  Restructuring in USD Restructuring & Key
               Change        DO       IP           M              Changes Made
05/02/2002                    U        U                   18.95




                                        24

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                Components                Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                             (USD M)               (USD M)           Appraisal
CRISIS RELIEF                                         26.50                   8.83          33.32
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              7.30                   0.00
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                                   29.30                   0.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                     5.70                   0.00
DISTRICT EDUCATION PROGRAM                             0.00                  57.00
PROVINCIAL SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT
EDUCATION PROGRAMS                                     0.00                  11.25

CENTRAL SUPPORT FOR DISTRICT
EDUCATION PROGRAMS                                     0.00                   5.10

                      Total Baseline Cost               68.8                 82.18
Physical Contingencies                                1.621
Fee                                                     .479                   .479
                       Total Project Costs              70.9                  82.66          116.6




(b) Financing


      Source of Funds           Type of        Appraisal          Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                              Cofinancing  Estimate (USD M) Estimate (USD M)         Appraisal
Borrower                                                 7.11                 22.21          312.3
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                      47.90                 45.33          94.63
Development
International Development
Association                                             15.90                 15.12          95.09


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                             25

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - Crisis Relief
Under the Crisis Relief Component, two major activities/outcomes were planned and implemented.
These are as follows:

1.   Based on poverty criteria and school attendance, a scholarships and grant program was provided
to primary and junior secondary students. These grants provided scholarships to junior secondary
students and the provision, cost and acquisition of instructional, consumable materials, minor repairs
and maintenance, public transportation of teachers attending KKG training, and school fees.
Government data indicate that:

    · Net Enrollment Rates (NER) in each project district were generally maintained or increased
        over the period 1998-2003. In S. Sulawesi primary NERs for each of the five school years
        were: 86%; 87%; 86%; 86% 88%. Junior secondary NERs were: 49%; 49%; 54%; 58%; 64%.
        In Maluku primary NERs for each of the five school years were: 90%; 90%; 88%; 83% 83%.
        Junior secondary NERs were: 53%; 58%; 59%; 63%; 63%;
    · Although there were some gaps, available data suggests that transition rates from primary to
        junior secondary were generally maintained or increased over the period 1998-2003. In S
        Sulawesi transition rates were 90%; 66%; 70%; 71% 80%. In N. Maluku transition rates were
        nd; 78%; nd%; 69% 90%. In Maluku transition rates were nd; nd; nd%; 61% 52%;
    · In the period from 1998 to 2003, no registered school receiving DBO closed due to inability to
        meet operating costs;
    · By the end of FY 2004, GOI data confirms that, of all the school mergers recommended in
        school consolidation plans (838), about 71% have been carried out. This has resulted in
        significant savings to development and operational costs on an annual basis;

2.   A training program on administration procedures and selection criteria for scholarships and grants
was planned and implemented in all of the provincial agencies, district agencies, Kecamatan and local
school committee members supported by the project. Data is not available regarding the number of
participants in this training program, but there is evidence that the training program was widely offered
and well received by the participants.

Component 2 - Institutional Reform
Under the Institutional Reform Component, and in response to ongoing legislative reforms, a number
of activities were planned and implemented. The key activities and outcomes are described below:

1.   Education management was strengthened at the Kecamatan, district, and provincial levels
through:
    a. Education Mapping. Education mapping of primary and junior secondary schools was
        widely institutionalized and used for education planning, especially for rehabilitating
        dilapidated schools. The mapping data included condition of school buildings, number of
        students, staffing of schools and consolidation plans for public primary schools. This data was
        used to improve staffing ratios and the restructuring of pubic primary education through
        school mergers and closings where necessary. GOI data indicates that, at project completion,
        all districts are using annual school mapping data to support management decision-making.
    b. Five-year Plans and Annual Technical and Budget Plans. At the various GOI levels
        (MONE, MORA, BAPPEDA, and DINAS P and K) prepared five year plans and supporting
        technical and budget plans that articulated with the national five year plan. This allowed for
        significant integration and coordination of consolidated activities in primary and secondary



                                                  26

         education. GOI data reveals that preparation of five-year plans were required from all of the
         above organizations. This planning did support significant linkages in basic education
         development between these organizations.
    c. Capacity Assessments. In support of their responsibilities within the national five year plan,
         relevant ministries and agencies were required to carry out capacity assessments. This
         information gave GOI a better understanding of the development need in basic education.
    d. Strengthening of Capacity. The project supported a significant effort to strengthen the
         capacity within relevant ministries and agencies that have responsibilities for service delivery
         in primary and junior secondary education. This was done through a variety of activities.
         Much of the effort focused on moving key decision-making to the lowest effective level
         (decentralization). This was done through the implementation of five management models
         that featured or supported elements of decentralization (i.e. rehab by school committees, block
         grant, teacher certification, contract teachers, and mapping/consolidation of schools) for use
         by the districts to strengthen capacity. It is noteworthy that by the end of the project, 50% of
         the project districts have adopted at least three of those models for sustained implementation at
         the local level. Likewise, at the national level, MONE has moved to institutionalize the use of
         block grants, teacher certification, contract teachers where needed and the use of school
         mapping for planning of education and the consolidation of schools. It is estimated that 95%
         of the school committees actively monitored program implementation (estimated from a
         sample of 809 out of 2,327 schools that received DBL or Rehabilitation Grants). In that same
         sample, it was found that 94% of the School Block Grant teams actively participated in the
         management of the block grant in their respective schools. It is evident that the use of
         community participation in basic education has significantly increased as a result of this and
         the other similar basic education projects.

Component 3 - Quality Improvement
Under the Quality Improvement Component, the project implemented six major activities. These
activities and their outcomes are as follows:

1.   Schools were consolidated in the project provinces, using school mapping (Component 2, activity
1). This effort included the redeployment of teachers and school principals. Although in most cases,
the two principals were maintained at the merged school until one of them reach their pension age.
GOI data reveals that out of about 838 recommended and planned school mergers, at least 71% have
taken place in areas supported by this project. This is significant in that such mergers allow for
improved institutional development and management, as well as significant savings in both human and
financial resources;

2.   Schools were encouraged to plan for quality. About 95% of the schools receiving (Quality) Block
Grants now produce school plans that linked needs to inputs;

3.   Primary schools were rehabilitated. This included the strengthening of school maintenance
procedures. Of the 656 schools that were rehabilitated, almost all of the schools were able to show
increases in new student enrollment, without seeing a decrease in private school enrollment within the
same village. Of the schools rehabilitated 98% were able to meet planned rehab. specifications upon
completion. GOI data shows that about 11% of these schools were able to increase their enrollments
by as much as 10%. The rest were able to increase their enrollments to a lesser amount;

4.   Schools were provided with block grant for 3 consecutive years which the school used to
purchase educational kits: books for supplementary reading and teacher reference, teacher aids and kits
and demonstration equipment for use in the classrooms;



                                                   27

5.    Contract teachers were employed to fill gaps in school staffing, particularly in remote rural areas
where teachers are hard to recruit, hire and retain. About 797 contract teachers were hired during the
project for junior secondary schools. Although the number of teachers fell short of original estimates,
this activity has still been quite successful in that it has demonstrated that a reasonable, temporary
option to maintain student/teacher ratios in more remote communities where teachers are hard to
recruit and maintain. Of contract teachers employed during the project, 95% of those teachers were
evaluated (performance) as satisfactory or higher by their head teachers. It was also found that about
96% of these contract teachers were teaching subjects that reflected school needs; and

6.   Madrasah teachers were certified.The project supported training program at local universities for
madrasah teacher (Primary and Jr Secondary Level) to upgrade their subject knowledge and pedagogy.
Training output exceeded original estimates. 826 teachers were certified

Component 4 - Project Management
Under the Project Management Component, project resources were used to support the
implementation, management and M&E of project by the various project implementation units (CPIU,
PPIU and DPIU). During the course of project implementation, these units were effectively organized,
managed and resourced. The project was designed with a pyramid type management structure wherein
the CPIU was responsible for providing monitoring and evaluation support and overall project
management, while the province and district levels were responsible for the direct implementation of
the various elements of the project. The Bank's supervision teams interacted with all levels on an
ongoing basis. Significant training and development was provided to these units by GOI and Bank
monitoring and supervision teams.




                                                   28

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

No economic and financial analysis was conducted at the completion of this project.




                                            29

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
         Names                 Title              Unit          Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Jacqueline Baptist   Economist               EASHD        Consultant (Economics)
Basilius Bengoteku   Sr Operations Off.      EASHD        Implementation
Sue Ellen Berryman   Consultant              IEGCM        Peer Reviewer
Bridie Champion      Consultant              LOAG2        Disbursement
Stephen R. Dice      Knowledge Coordinator   PA9SS        Regional Development
Brigitte Duces       Operations Adviser      SAROQ        Implementation
Deon P. Filmer       Senior Economist        DECRG        Economics
Vincent M. Greaney   Consultant              MNSHD        Basic Education
Donald B. Hamilton   Consultant              AFTHD        Education Planning
Dorothy N. Judkins   Program Assistant       EASHD        Administrative Support
Elizabeth M. King    Research Manager        DECRG        Peer Reviewer
Samuel S. Lieberman  Lead Economist          EASHD        Education Planning
Mieko Masuda         Consultant              EASHD        Consultant (Costabs)
Nancy Mattson        Consultant              OPCIL        Consultant (Project Costing)
Karin I. Nordlander  Consultant              LEGEA        Project Lawyer
Maris O'Rourke       Consultant              EASHD        Peer Reviewer
Menno Prasad Pradhan Senior Poverty          EASPR        M&E
                     Specialist
Rosfita Roesli       Operations Officer      EASHD        Basic Education
Haneen Ismail Sayed  Lead Operations Officer MNSHD        Task Team Leader
Marsoedi M. Soedjak  Consultant              EACIF        Implementation
Hugh C. A. Somerset  Consultant              EASHD        Consultant (Teacher Devel
John Strawhorn                               PID          Institutional Devt
Jerry G. Strudwick   Sr Education Spec.      EASHD        Consultant (Education)
Unggul Suprayitno    Financial Management    EAPCO        Disbursement
                     Specialist
Adriaan M. Verspoor  Consultant              WBIHD        Peer Reviewer
Nigel William        Consultant              EASHD        Consultant (Architecture,
Wakeham
Supervision/ICR
Eddy Arinto          Consultant              EASHD        School Rehabilitation
Andreas Atmadji      Consultant              EASHD        School Rehabilitation
Basilius Bengoteku   Sr Operations Off.      EASHD        Implementation
Martial Dembele      Consultant              IEGSG
Firman Dharmawan     Contracts Officer       GSDPR        Procurement Management
Christina I. Donna   Consultant              EACIF
Richard Murton Evans Consultant              EASHD
Titie Hadiyati       Consultant              EASHD        Implementation
Bisma Husen          Procurement Spec.       EAPCO
Daniel Moulton       Consultant              EASHD



                                             30

H. Dean Nielsen      Sr Evaluation Off.      IEGSG
Parivash Mehrdadi    Program Assistant       EASHD    Administrative Support
Kartika Adi Purwanto Consultant              EASHD
Rosfita Roesli       Operations Officer      EASHD    Task Team Leader (2003 on
Rajiv Sondhi         Sr Fin. Mgt Specialist  EAPCO    Financial Mgt.
Elsa Warouw          Program Assistant       EASHD    Administrative Support




                                             31

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
No. Date ISR Archived           DO                 IP            Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/28/1999             Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                     0.00
2   09/24/1999             Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                     2.73
3   06/08/2000             Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                     3.14
4   12/21/2000             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                   7.36
5   02/14/2001             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                   8.00
6   06/13/2001             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                 21.37
7   12/11/2001             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                 69.45
8   05/06/2002             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                 93.96
9   05/06/2002             Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                 93.96
10 08/20/2002              Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                 93.96
11 03/20/2003              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                                 98.02
12 06/24/2003              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                                101.20
13 12/23/2003              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                  111.21
14 05/18/2004              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                  117.87
15 06/25/2004              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                                117.73
16 12/21/2004              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                                120.65
17 05/12/2005              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                  123.50
18 02/21/2006              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                  128.04
19 04/28/2006              Satisfactory     Satisfactory                                  135.47


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage of Project Cycle
                                                 No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY97                                                                 104.36
                     FY98                                                                 195.01
                     FY99                                                                   84.22
                     FY00                                                                    1.94
                     FY01                                                                    0.00
                     FY02                                                                    3.48
                     FY03                                                                    0.00
                     FY04                                                                    0.00
                     FY05                                                                    0.00
                     FY06                                                                    0.00
                     FY07                                                                    0.00
                                         Total:                                           389.01
Supervision/ICR
                     FY97                                                                    0.00
                     FY98                                                                    0.00
                     FY99                                                                   15.64
                     FY00                                         19                        89.60
                     FY01                                         35                      136.61
                     FY02                                         27                      136.11
                     FY03                                         21                      146.78
                     FY04                                         17                        93.61
                     FY05                                         33                        82.63
                     FY06                                         15                        42.01
                     FY07                                          3                        13.21
                                         Total:                  170                      756.20




                                             32

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank              Ratings            Borrower         Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                   Satisfactory   Government:         Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory   Implementing
                                        Agency/Agencies:    Not Applicable

Overall Bank                            Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory   Performance:        Satisfactory




                                       33

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                       34

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                    35

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The following comments are inserted without modification and/or editing as required by Bank procedures.

                                    BORROWER'S COMMENTS
                SULAWESI & EASTERN ISLANDS BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


Sulawesi and Eastern Islands Basic Education Project that was a duplicate of West Java Basic
Education Project has been implemented since 1999. It covered all (34) districts in South
Sulawesi, Maluku, and North Maluku Provinces. Some activities have been developed in a
comprehensive program to deal with the education problems facing this country especially after
the economic crisis. The main aim of Sulawesi and Eastern Islands Basic Education Project was
developing models or strategies in reducing the crisis impacts through: (1) maintaining primary
and junior secondary enrollment rate, (2) maintaining transition rates from primary to secondary
for the poor, (3) preventing quality deterioration, (4) efficiency improvement, and (5)
decentralizing educational planning, management, and implementation effectively to district and
below.

This project was one of embryos of education decentralization which involving the relevant
institutions that are responsible both direct and indirect toward education such as Ministry of
National Education, National Planning Bureau, Domestic Home Affair, and Ministry of Religion
Affair, and education boards/offices from central, provincial, to district levels. The project
organization consisted of district project implementation unit (DPIU), provincial project
coordination unit (PPCU), and central project coordination unit (CPCU). The CPCU is located in
the Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education Management, the Ministry of
National Education as Executing Agency. The PPCUs were leaded by the Head of Provincial
Education Offices supervised under the governors. The DPIUs were leaded by the head of district
education offices supervised under the Bupatis or Walikotas. The activities of the project included
school mapping, school renovation (rehabilitation), contract teachers, school block grants,
teachers' certification, and schools' furniture procurement.

1. School Mapping
School mapping is collecting education data including data of student's enrolment, teachers'
shortage, schools map, school regrouping plan, and school buildings at sub-district level which is
consolidated at district levels. The data that was updated every year has been used as base line
data for education programme planning. The result of school mapping was required to be used as
a tool to select the schools that would be allocated grant from the project. There were 488 primary
schools have been regrouped to enhance the effectiveness of education management because it
reduced the school operational budget, expand the teachers distribution, and improves the quality
of the school building as its were prioritized to be rehabilitated.

2. School Rehabilitation
School rehabilitation by BEP introduced a new method in implementing the activity using
community involvement. It is a new strategy as in the past this kind of activity was always
implemented through contractual system. Implementation of this activity should follow the
rehabilitation manual (technical guidance) agreed by the World Bank and Indonesian
Government. The processes of rehabilitation include school selection, verification, forming the
Rehab Implementation Team at school level, construction design & budget planning, design and



                                                  36

budget review, and construction activity by the schools' team. To ensure and helping the schools'
team in planning the rehabilitation, engineering construction consultants were contracted by the
PPCU to provide technical assistant to the district and school levels.

Through this project, 661 out 3,425 primary schools (the total of damage primary schools) in
South Sulawesi, Maluku, and North Maluku Provinces have been renovated by the school teams
under supervision of the construction firm and individual consultants. Each school received a
school block grant of IDR300 million directly through their accounts.

There are some advantages for implementing this model including high quality of the
constructions, improving community participation, contributing to the local economic, increasing
schools ownership, and about 25% cheaper and more additional facilities got by the schools
compared with contractual system. Community involvement in rehabilitation could also reduce
the risk of KKN as all members actively participated in monitoring and implementing the
program. In addition, many contributions from by the community like construction materials,
payment reduction, and free supporting works to the schools were received by the schools that it
will not occur in the contractual system.

3. Contract Teachers
Contract teachers' activity is a model to reduce the problem in lacking of teachers at junior
secondary level. There were 797 teachers consisted of 327 (41%) males and 470 (59%) females
have been contracted in South Sulawesi, Maluku, and North Maluku Provinces. This activity has
been expanded to the national level and all contract teachers are prioritized to be recruited as civil
servants. They were distributed to junior secondary schools and madrasah tsanawiyah both state
and private that were located mostly in rural or isolated areas. Most of them showed good
performances confirmed by the principals. 71% of them have been recruited as civil servants.

4. School Block Grant
School block grant is a new strategy to support implementation of school-based management. A
primary school received IDR7 million and a junior secondary school received IDR15 million per
year in 2-3 years. 2,327 schools received this the block grant through this project. The use of
grant was guided by manual agreed by World Bank and Indonesian government supervised by
consultants.

Some lesson learned from this activity include: 1) the money is sent directly to the school without
any reduction, 2) learning quality improvement due to more books, teaching aids, and sport
facilities, 3) teachers training implementation, 4) school management could be more transparance,
and 5) improving skills in financial managements.

5. Teachers Certification
Teachers certification is a program to reduce mis-match between teachers' educational
background and their tasks in classes in madrasahs both madrasah ibtidaiyah (primary school
level) and madrasah tsanawiyah (junior secondary school level). Most of the madrasahs' teachers
come from religion (Islamic) field, but as class teachers they should teach all subjects including
mathematics, science, social science, Indonesian language, and citizenship. This activity provides
opportunity for the teachers to improve their knowledge and skills in delivering education in their
classes. There were 826 teachers have been certified by the projects in coordination with the local
higher education institutions. This could improve teachers confidence in carrying out teaching
learning activities.




                                                 37

6. Matching Grant Activity
Matching grant acticity is an activity to provide grants to private schools for light renovation
purposes. The schools should provide sharing budget of 25% from the grant which can be cash,
materials, or people. This activity have been implemented to 119 private schools in 2001. Since
then, this program has been expanded nationaly by central government through Directorate of
Junior Secondary Education since 2002.

7. School Furniture Procurement
The aim of the school furniture procurement is to replace the damage furniture in the schools.
This activity is implemented through community participation. The implementation processes
include providing the manual, selecting the schools proposed, verifying the target, confirming to
schools selected to the Bank, and procuring furniture by the schools themselves (not by
contractor). The schools could either make it by themselves or buy from producer or supplier.
They coudl also combination of the two. There have been 3,017 set (classes) furnitures for 1,113
schools procured through this project. One set of furniture consist of 40 set table-chairs for
students, 1 set table-chair for teacher, 1 unit blackboard and 1 unit of bookshelf.

There are some advantages in procuring school furniture through community participation. These
include obtaining better quality of furniture, better community involvement in the schools, and
increasing the schools management skills. In short, delegating furniture procurement to the
schools could empower them and result in high quality furniture and more efficient.

8. Education Management Improvement
One of the project objectives is to improve education management. Some benefits could be noted
from the implementation of this project related to education management. Firstly, this project has
been able to let all education stakeholders to sit together to be a teamwork in solving some of
education problems including decentralized education planning and management. Developing
project units at central, provincial, and district levels could increase the degree of coordination
among stakeholders. Secondly, capacity building is one of the project component could improve
the management skills especially to the project management teams at all levels. Most of the
project managers are promoted to important positions at their office of educations. Technical
assistants to the provincial and district management teams have been provided through training,
workshop, and supervision to improve their skills in implementing the right procedures of the
project. In addition, providing independent team for monitoring and evaluation could encourage
the management team to manage the project properly. Implementing join supervision mission
every semester could keep the project on track. Referring merely to BPKP as auditor independent
instead of many other auditors could avoid double auditing is another benefial.

9. Working with World Bank
This project was running by loan from the World Bank. In the first design of the project, all
components of the project were funded both the World Bank and Government in certains
proportion. This was result in a very complext in implementing the administration and accounting
system. Redesign the project resolved these problems with dividing the budget proportion from
the World Bank and GoI to 0-100% or 100-0%.

To be consistent is one of impression in working with the World Bank. The project should always
reffere to the project documents such as project appraisal document, loan agrreement, and the
guidelines from the Bank. There are many no object letters that should be recieved from the
World Bank. This sometimes results in long waiting and delaying the implementation of some
programmes. However, it encourages the project team to be better in planning and management.



                                                    38

Annex 11. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                    39

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Concept Note
Project Appraisal Document
Borrowers Completion Report
Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Audit Reports
Aide Memoires and documents prepared for Mid Term Review
Loan Agreements and Loan Amendments
Project Status Reports (PSR/ISR)
World Bank (1998), Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, Report No. 1639-IND,
Education Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank (2004), Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization
Indonesia Sector Review, the World Bank, Washington D.C.




                                              40

MAP IBRD 29790R




                   41

42

