Page  1
September  22, 2000
Drs. A. Anshari Ritonga
Director General of Budget
Ministry of Finance
Jakarta, Indonesia
Dear Mr. Ritonga,
Re:
The Netherlands Grant for Indonesia School Improvement Grants 
Programme Trust Fund No. 023864
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided under the Netherlands Grant, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
Twenty-eight Million, Eight Hundred Thousand US dollars (US$28,800,000) (the Grant) to 
the Republic of Indonesia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below,  
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
AGREED:
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Director General of Budget
Date:
September 22, 2000
cc.
Drs Edi Karsanto, Director of External Funds, Ministry of Finance, Indonesia
Dr. Indra Djati, Sidi, Director General for Primary and Secondary Educ., MONE 
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Government of Indonesia to improve the 
quality of schooling in Indonesia and the condition of Indonesia’s poorest and most 
distressed primary and junior secondary schools, including schools that face an 
additional burden of providing educational facilities to refugees and displaced 
populations. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a) 
financing physical repairs to the schools’ infrastructure, but not 
Page  2
undertaking any new constructions;
(b) 
financing the purchase of books and stationery for educational use at the 
schools;
(c) 
financing the purchase and repair of furniture for the schools;
(d) 
financing the purchase of teaching aids and materials for the schools; 
(e) 
financing other repairs, such as water and sanitation, at the schools; 
and
(f) 
hiring three firms to serve as quality control supervisors in the 
physical repair of schools.
1.2
The Grant has the following two components:
Component A - The School Improvement Grants Program
(97.5% of the Grant)
Component B - The management and administration of the School Improvement Grants 
Program Grant)
 (2.5% of the 
(a) 
The purpose of Component A of the Grant is to finance, on a single 
allocation basis to each school, the School Improvement Grants Program (SIGP) for 
selected schools. All primary and junior secondary schools in the Republic of 
Indonesia, whether public or private, secular or religious, are eligible for grants 
under SIGP. 
(b) 
The purpose of Component B of the Grant is to finance the operational and 
consultant costs associated with implementing Component A, as provided in section 4.2 
of this Annex.
1.3
The allocation and administration of Grants under SIGP shall be undertaken in 
line with procedures applying to the Bank financed Scholarships and Grants Program 
(SGP).
(a) 
The management of SIGP shall be undertaken by the SGP Management Unit, 
under the Ministry of National Education, in consultation with the managers of the 
Bank and Asian Development Bank Basic Education Projects;
(b) 
SIGP activities shall be completed under Bank supervision and are subject 
to full-time international independent monitoring until such time as the Bank shall be 
satisfied that the recipient schools have utilized their Grants under SIGP;
(c) 
The Government of Indonesia shall set criteria for determining:
(i) 
allocation of Grants to locations in districts and provinces;
(ii) 
schools entitled to receive Grants; and
(iii) the size of Grants to be allocated to each school.
(d) 
Grants under SIGP shall be paid directly by the Post Office (PT Pos 
Indonesia) to the school committees of the selected schools; and
(e) 
Procedures for the payment of Grant proceeds, and all other procedures 
relating to the management and administration of SIGP shall be comprehensively 
detailed in a Project Implementation Plan (PIP), to be approved by the Bank prior to 
the disbursement of Grant proceeds under Component A.
1.4.
Grants under SIGP shall be made on the basis of a core amount per recipient 
school, plus additional amounts based on such criteria as enrollment, the poverty of 
the area served by the school, assessed needs, and, where appropriate, and as 
determined by the Government of Indonesia, the size and nature of the refugee 
population served by the school.  
1.5
Once identified, a recipient school shall submit a proposal detailing the use of 
the required Grant proceeds and shall provide a school status report for review by the 
Government of Indonesia prior to any disbursement of Grant funds.
1.6
Guidelines for Grant use, school proposals and school status reports shall be 
approved by the Bank.
Page  3
1.7
The award of Grants under SIGP shall be made in the following three stages:
(a) Stage One: Grant allocations shall be made to primary and junior secondary 
schools that service refugees or displaced populations. Stage One allocations shall be 
made in or before November 2000.
(b) Stage Two: Grant allocations shall be made to primary and junior secondary 
schools in areas included in the Bank’s Fourth Basic Education Project, the Asian 
Development Bank’s Bali/NTB/Jakarta Basic Education Project and the other three Bank 
Basic Education Projects. Selected schools in the said areas, as determined by the 
Government of Indonesia, shall receive Grants in the first allocation of SIGP, 
notwithstanding the requirement that Stage Two Grant allocations shall be made in 
January, 2001.
(c) Stage Three: Grant allocations shall be made to primary and junior secondary 
schools in areas not included in Stages One and Two. Selected schools in the said 
areas, as determined by the Government of Indonesia, shall receive Grants in the first 
allocation of SIGP, notwithstanding the requirement that Stage Three Grant allocations 
shall be made in April, 2001.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to 
visit the territory of Indonesia for purposes related to the Grant.  Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the 
Activities.
2.2.
If the Recipient is the member country but the Activities are to be carried out 
through an independent executing agency, this paragraph describes the implementation 
arrangements, including the transfer of funds according to the terms and conditions of 
the Grant.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
 Allocated (in US
Expenditures
Item
Dollars)
to be Financed
COMPONENT A
Page  4
School Improvements Grant
Program (SIGP)
(1)
Grants
   27,976,000
100%
COMPONENT B
SIGP Management and
Administration
(2)
Consultants' services
385,000
100%
including services for
supervising school
repairs
(3)
Goods and equipment
 45,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Republic of 
Indonesia for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the Republic of Indonesia, and the term "local expenditures" means any 
expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, provided, however, that if the 
currency of the Republic of Indonesia is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for 
such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or 
in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after July 31, 2001 or 
such later date as the Bank, with the approval of the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands, shall establish by written notice to the Recipient 
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred 
prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by the Bank 
within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in the 
Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, 
the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of 
the Grant then allocated to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be 
necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by authorized official or such other person as he or she shall 
have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures 
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the 
first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Grants, (b) services of 
consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; and (c) services of 
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (d) workshops and 
training, and (e) goods, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Page  5
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central 
Bank of Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Republic of Indonesia, or 
any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic 
of Indonesia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
Page  6
this Section I.
Part B:
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
1
Services for Supervision of Rehabilitation, Independent Audit, and Management 
and Administration consultants  under paragraphs (please add appropriate para number) 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Supervision of Rehabilitation, Independent Audit, and Management 
and Administration consultants under paragraphs (please add appropriate para number) 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Supervision of Rehabilitation, Independent Audit, and Management 
and Administration consultants under paragraphs (please add appropriate para number 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.  However, prior review of Terms of Reference and budgets shall be 
required for all contracts
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Goods and works under Component B of the Grant may be procured under in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
Page  7
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  8
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
cw & cc. Messrs/Mmes.  Jerry Strudwick (EACIF); K.Mwenda (LEGOP); H. Bruneau 
   (LOAAS); Z. Farooq (ACTTF)
