Page  1
September 26, 2001
Mr. Anshari Ritonga
Director General of Budget
Directorate General of Budget
Ministry of Finance
Jakarta, Indonesia
Re:
Netherlands Grant for the Scholarships and Grants Program
Grant Number TF-029898
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in United States Dollars not to 
exceed the equivalent of fifty five million eight hundred fourteen thousand nine 
hundred sixty six Euro and fifty eight cents (EUR55,814,966.58) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of Indonesia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By_/s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Vikram Nehru
Acting Country Director, Indonesia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Director General of Budget
Date: September 26, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in mitigating the 
effects of the economic crisis by maintaining primary and junior secondary school 
enrollments and transition rates from primary to junior secondary schools for the 
poor, preventing quality from deteriorating by ensuring that schools can meet 
essential operational and maintenance costs, and realizing efficiency gains wherever 
possible. 
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
Page  2
following activities (the Activities):
Part A:
Carrying out of a program to provide scholarships, based on poverty 
criteria and student school attendance, to junior secondary students. 
Part B:
Carrying out of a program to provide grants to selected primary and 
junior secondary schools for acquisition of instructional materials and consumable 
materials, carrying out of minor repairs and maintenance, provision of public 
transportation to teachers attending school cluster based training, and school fees.
1.3.
For purposes of this Letter Agreement the following term, wherever used in this 
Letter Agreement, has the following meaning, namely, "Sub-Grants" means grants made 
available by the Recipient out of the proceeds of the Grant to primary and junior 
secondary schools under the Project.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project through its Ministry of National 
Education with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Republic of 
Indonesia for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2
In carrying out the Project, the Recipient undertakes that, unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, Sub-Grants and scholarships will be provided in accordance with 
the following procedures and conditions: 
(a)
Sub-Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by 
written agreement with each of the schools or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank, including the right 
to: 
(i)
require that the goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment I to this Annex; 
(ii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and 
construction financed by the Grant, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the school to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant, upon failure by such school to perform its 
obligations under its agreement with the Recipient. 
(b)
The Recipient shall, for purposes of the Project, select schools on the 
basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank, including poverty rating of the community 
where the school is located.
(c)
Sub-Grants shall be used exclusively for expenditures by primary and 
junior secondary schools for:
(i)
instructional materials (including library books, reference books, 
atlases, charts and posters);
(ii)
consumable materials (including student’s notebooks, chalk, 
pencils, and supplies for practical subjects);
(iii)
minor repairs and maintenance at schools (including painting and 
repair of windows, doors, classroom desks and chairs, roofs, 
toilets, water drainage and footpaths);
(iv)
examination fees; and
Page  3
(v)
public transportation for teachers attending school cluster based 
in-service teacher training.
(d)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:  
(i)
the Sub-Grant per school shall not be more than Rp. 2,000,000 per 
year for primary schools and not more than Rp. 4,000,000 per year 
for junior secondary schools; and 
(ii)
the scholarship for junior secondary school students shall not be 
more than Rp. 240,000 per student per year. 
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and works 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
Category
Amount of the Grant
% of
(Allocated in United
Expenditures to 
States Dollars Equivalent
   be Financed
Of Euro)
(1) Scholarships
29,000,000
100%
(2) Sub-Grants
21,000,000
100%
TOTAL
50,000,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or works and services supplied from 
such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods or works, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after May 31, 2002, 
or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date); and 
(c)
if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
Page  4
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Director General of Budget or such other person as he 
or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient 
in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw 
such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying 
out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
 The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) scholarships; and (ii) grants; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in 
Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial 
bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare quarterly financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
Page  5
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of 
Indonesia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Bank shall have been 
suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Guidelines) 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
Community Participation
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  6
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$26,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  7
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
