Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3188 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Sulawesi and Eastern Islands Basic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 16, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3188 IND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  April 16, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty seven million nine hundred thousand 
dollars ($47,900,000) (the Loan); and 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:  
(a)
“BAPPEDA” means the Development Planning Agency established and operating 
within the Province and within each District; 
(b)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and includes any successor thereto; 
(c)
“Bupati” means the head of a Kabupaten; 
(d)
“CPCU” means the Central Project Coordination Unit in MOEC; 
(e)
“CSC” means the Central Steering Committee chaired by BAPPENAS; 
(f)
“DCC” means the District Coordination Committee; 
(g)
“DINAS P dan K” means DINAS Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan, the provincial and 
District office for education and culture; 
(h)
“District” means a Kabupaten or a Kotamadya; 
(i)
“DPIU” means the District Project Implementation Unit;
(j)
“First Group of Districts” means the following Districts: Kotamadya Ujung 
Pandang, Kotamadya Pare-Pare, Kabupaten Enrekang, Kabupaten Soppeng, Kabupaten 
Pangkajene Kepulauan, Kabupaten Maros, Kabupaten Gowa, Kabupaten Takalar, Kabupaten 
Jeneponto, Kabupaten Bantaeng and Kabupaten Bulukumba in the Province of Sulawesi 
Selatan; 
(k)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(l)
“Grants” means grants made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds 
Page  3
of the Credit and the Loan to primary and junior secondary schools under Part A of the 
Project;  
(m)
“Guru Pemandu” means subject matter teaching facilitators; 
(n)
“Implementation Guidelines” means the Borrower’s Guidelines of Basic 
Education Project Implementation set out in the Joint Decree of the Director General 
of Primary and Secondary Education, MOEC, the Director General of Islamic Institutions 
Development, MORA, and the Director General of Regional Development, MOHA, No. 
426/C/Kep/PR/98, No. E/349/98, and No. 050-258/SK-Bangda/98, respectively, dated 
October 27, 1998, as amended from time to time in agreement with the Association;
(o)
“Junior secondary schools” means the Borrower’s public and private 
Sekolah Lanjutan Tingkat Pertama and Madrasah Tsanawiyah; 
(p)
“KC” means a Kecamatan Committee; 
(q)
“Kecamatan” means a sub-District; 
(r)
“KKG” means teacher training groups; 
(s)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(t)
“MOEC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Culture and any 
successor thereto; 
(u)
“MOHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs and any successor 
thereto; 
(v)
“MORA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Religious Affairs and any 
successor thereto; 
(w)
“PCC” means the Provincial Coordination Committee;
(x)
“Pimbagpro” means a Project sub-manager at the District level; 
(y) 
“Pimpro” means a Project manager at the central and provincial level; 
(z)
“PPIU” means the Provincial Project Implementation Unit; 
(aa)
“Primary schools” means the Borrower’s public and private Sekolah Dasar 
and Madrasah Ibtidaiyah; 
(bb)
“Private School Grants” means grants made available by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to primary and junior secondary private 
schools under Part C. 6 of the Project;
(cc)
“Project Provinces” means: 
(i)
for Part A of the Project, the Borrower’s provinces of Irian Jaya, 
Maluku, 
Sulawesi Tengah, Sulawesi Utara, Sulawesi Selatan, 
Sulawesi Tenggara and Timor 
Timur; and 
(ii)
for Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower’s provinces of 
Maluku and 
Sulawesi Selatan; 
(dd)
“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower;
(ee)
“Second Group of Districts” means the following Districts: Kotamadya 
Ambon, Kabupaten Maluku Utara, Kabupaten Halmahera Tengah, Kabupaten Maluku Tengah, 
and Kabupaten Maluku Tenggara in the Province of Maluku;  
Page  4
(ff)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(gg)
“Third Group of Districts” means the following Districts: Kabupaten 
Selayar, Kabupaten Sinjai, Kabupaten Barru, Kabupaten Bone, Kabupaten Wajo, Kabupaten 
Sidenreng Rappang, Kabupaten Pinrang, Kabupaten Luwu, Kabupaten Tana Toraja,  
Kabupaten Polewali Mamasa, Kabupaten Majene, Kabupaten Mamuju in the Province of 
Sulawesi Selatan; and
(hh)
“Walikota” means the head of a Kotamadya. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant made under Parts A.2 and C.6 of the Project to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required by schools and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project (other than Parts A.2 and C.6 of the Project) and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  5
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and  December 15 commencing  June 15, 2009, and  ending December 15, 
2033. Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,  provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, engineering, environmental, and financial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
Page  6
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. ARTICLE IV Financial Covenants Section 4.01. (a) The 
Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a  format acceptable to the Association, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts, and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
Page  7
(b)
that a PPIU has been established in each of the Project Provinces in 
accordance with paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and  
(c)
that a DPIU has been established in each of the First Group of Districts 
in accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Mr. Darsjah, 
Director General of Budget
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird, 
Country Director for Indonesia 
Authorized Representative
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  1,100,000
 4,900,000
80%
under Part C.2
of the Project
(2)
Goods
    300,000
 4,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of
local expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) and 
80%
of local 
expenditures
for other items 
procured
locally
(3)
Training and
 1,600,000
 
10,000,000
80%
fellowships
(4)
Scholarships
 3,700,000
 7,600,000
100%
under Part A.1
of the Project
(5)
Grants:
100%
(a) Primary
 1,800,000
 6,500,000
schools
(b) Junior
 1,000,000
 3,400,000
secondary
schools
(6)
Private
   100,000
 1,300,000
100%
School
Grants
(7)
Services of
   100,000
 1,000,000
100%
contract
Teachers under
Part C.5 of
the Project
(8)
Project
 1,200,000
 3,800,000
80%
management
(9)
Consultants'
   800,000
 3,100,000
100%
services
(10)
Fee
--
   479,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement
Page  9
(11)
Unallocated
--
 1,621,000
TOTAL
11,700,000
47,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project management” means expenditures for travel, per diem, 
honoraria, office equipment and materials, and office support required for the CPCU, 
DCC, DPIU, PCC and PPIU in the management of the Project.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and Loan Account 
to be made on the basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures  for: (i) 
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, 
except for the first procurement of goods in each Fiscal Year in each District under 
contracts costing the  equivalent  of  $50,000  or more;  (ii) training and 
fellowships;  (iii) scholarships; (iv) Grants; (v) Private School Grants; (vi) 
services of contract teachers; (vii) Project management; and (viii) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and 
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association and the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) mitigating the 
effects of the economic crisis in the Project Provinces by maintaining primary and 
junior secondary school enrollments and transition rates from primary to junior 
secondary schools for the poor, preventing quality from deteriorating by ensuring that 
schools can meet essential operational and maintenance costs, and realizing efficiency 
gains wherever possible; and (ii) the continued implementation of the Borrower’s 
medium-term education strategy of improving the quality of basic education and 
decentralizing educational planning, management and implementation to the District 
level and below in the Project Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Crisis Relief
Maintaining primary and junior secondary school enrollments, quality and 
efficiency in the Project Provinces through: 
1.
the carrying out of a program to provide scholarships, based on poverty criteria 
and student school attendance, to junior secondary students; 
2.
the carrying out of a program to provide Grants to selected primary and junior 
secondary schools for acquisition of instructional materials and consumable materials, 
carrying out of minor repairs and maintenance, provision of public transportation to 
teachers attending KKG training, and school fees; and 
3.
the carrying out of a training program for provincial, District, Kecamatan and 
school committee members relating to selection criteria for scholarships and Grants. 
Part B:
Institutional Reform
Page  10
1.
Strengthening education management at the Kecamatan, District and provincial 
levels in the Project Provinces through: 
(a)
the preparation of location maps of primary and junior secondary schools 
in each Kecamatan, including staffing of schools and consolidation plans for public 
primary schools, for purposes of consolidating public primary schools and improving 
staffing ratios of schools;
(b)
the preparation of a five-year plan and annual technical and budgetary 
plans integrating and coordinating the activities of MOEC, MORA, BAPPEDA and DINAS P 
dan K in the field of basic education, covering: (i) school location, consolidation, 
rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) teacher training, support and supervision; (iii) 
provision of books for supplementary reading, teacher reference books, teaching aids 
and kits, equipment and materials; and (iv) promotion of community participation in 
school affairs; including provision of technical assistance; 
(c)
the carrying out of organizational, staffing, and other assessments of 
the capability and capacity of MOEC, MORA, BAPPEDA, DINAS P dan K and other relevant 
provincial, District and Kecamatan level agencies to plan, budget and implement basic 
education programs; and
(d)
the strengthening of the institutional capacity to carry out basic 
education programs of the provincial, District and Kecamatan agencies of MOEC, MORA, 
BAPPEDA, DINAS P dan K, and other relevant provincial, District and Kecamatan level 
agencies through: (i) the development and carrying out of training programs  for  
staff; (ii) carrying out of student assessments and Project impact evaluation; and 
(iii) provision of office equipment.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the CPCU, PCC, PPIU, DCC, DPIU, KC and school 
committees for Project management through:
(a)
the preparation and carrying out of a program for the periodic reporting, 
monitoring and evaluation of the five-year and annual technical and budgetary plans; 
(b)
the carrying out of technical audits; 
(c)
the carrying out of Project management training; and 
(d)
the provision of office equipment, furniture and materials to the CPCU, 
PPIU and DPIU. 
3.
Carrying out of preparation activities for teacher policy reforms.
Part C:
Quality Improvement
Improving the quality of primary and junior secondary schools in the Project 
Provinces through: 
1.
the carrying out of primary school consolidation in accordance with the school 
mapping under Part B.1 (a) of the Project, including redeployment of teachers and 
school principals; 
2.
the rehabilitation of, and the strengthening of maintenance at, primary schools; 
3.
the provision to schools of books for supplementary reading, teacher reference 
books, teaching aids and kits and equipment for demonstration activities;
4.
the carrying out of a program of training, including: (i) training for trainers 
(including tutors and Guru Pemandu) in the support, coaching, supervision and 
evaluation  of  teachers and library managers; (ii) practical training in improved 
teaching approaches and methodologies for teachers and library managers; (iii) 
administrative training for school principals and supervisors; and (iv) training of 
community leaders, including heads of private school foundations; 
5.
the carrying out of a program of employment of about 800 contract teachers for 
Page  11
junior secondary schools in remote rural areas of the Project Provinces; and 
6.
the carrying out of a program to provide Private School Grants to selected 
schools for rehabilitation of school buildings, equipment and furniture.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997, and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.9 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Part, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Educational materials which are of a proprietary nature may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Except as provided in paragraph 5 below, works shall be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully. 
5.
Community Participation 
Works required for Part C of the Project may be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Page  12
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract for goods in each Fiscal Year in each 
District, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for educational materials to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 above, the following 
procedures shall apply: (i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and (ii)
the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants' services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for field engineer estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by contract teachers shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain at the central level until completion of the 
Project, a CSC and a CPCU, with qualified and experienced members, and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, responsible for policy making and overall 
monitoring and coordination of Project implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain at the provincial level until completion of the Project a PCC, 
with qualified and experienced members, and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, responsible for the coordination and monitoring of Project implementation 
at the provincial level; and 
(b)
establish and, thereafter, maintain, in the Project Provinces of Maluku 
and Sulawesi Selatan, at the provincial level until completion of the Project, a PPIU, 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, including a Pimpro, responsible for Project implementation at the provincial 
level.
3.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain at the District level 
until completion of the Project: 
(a)
DPIUs in the First Groups of Districts; 
(b)
by May 1, 2000, DPIUs in the Second Group of Districts; and 
(c)
by May 1, 2001, DPIUs in the Third Group of Districts; with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association and with competent staff in adequate numbers, 
including Pimbagpros, responsible for Project implementation at the District level, 
such staff to be appointed by the relevant Bupati or Walikota. 
4.
The Borrower shall maintain at the District level until completion of the 
Project,  DCCs with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
5.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Guidelines, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with the 
Page  14
Association.
6.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than December 31, 2000, for the First Group of Districts, June 
1, 2001, for the Second Group of Districts, and June 1, 2002, for the Third Group of 
Districts, carry out a review of the terms of reference of  DINAS P dan K Tk. II 
staff, taking into account the skills and number of staff required for Project 
implementation, and, thereafter, revise such terms of reference as necessary, in 
consultation with the Association, to ensure satisfactory implementation of the 
Project; and  
(b)
thereafter, maintain DINAS P dan K Tk. II with competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
7.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower undertakes that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, Grants and scholarships will be provided in 
accordance with the procedures and on the conditions set forth or referred to in Part 
I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
8.
In carrying out Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare the consolidation plan for primary schools: (i) not later than 
June 1, 2000, in the First Group of Districts; (ii) not later than June 1, 2001, in 
the Second Group of Districts; and (iii) not later than June 1, 2002, in the Third 
Group of Districts;  
(b)
furnish such plans to the Association for comment; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out such plans taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon.
9.
In carrying out Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
by not later than August 1, 2000, for the First Group of Districts, 
August 1, 2001, for the Second Group of Districts and August 1, 2002, for the Third 
Group of Districts, prepare plans, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, for the training and deployment, as teachers or administrators, of school 
principals declared redundant due to school consolidation under paragraph 8 of this 
Schedule, and provide such plans to the Association for comments; and 
(b)
thereafter, carry out such plans taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon;
10.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 1999, and until 
completion of the Project, furnish to the Association for approval the annual 
budgetary and technical plans for the carrying out of Part B.1 (b) of the Project; and 
(b)
thereafter, carry out such plans in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
11.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 1, 2002, prepare guidelines for the deployment of primary school teachers, 
acceptable to the Association, and, thereafter, deploy teachers in accordance with 
such guidelines. 
12.
In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by February 1, 2001, prepare a proposal for the funding of operation and 
maintenance at primary schools and furnish such proposal to the Association for 
comment; and, thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan for operation and 
maintenance funding, acceptable to the Association; and  
(b)
until the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) above is finalized, 
Page  15
ensure that each consolidated school is provided with an annual operation and 
maintenance budget at least equal to the aggregate amount of the prior year’s annual 
operation and maintenance budget of the individual schools consolidated into such 
school. 
13.
In carrying out Part C.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contract 
teachers in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association. 
14.
In carrying out Part C. 6 of the Project, the Borrower undertakes that, unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, Private School Grants will be provided in 
accordance with the procedures and on the conditions set forth or referred to in Part 
II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
15.
The Borrower shall, prior to carrying out the activities under Parts B and C of 
the Project in the Third Group of Districts, finalize the consolidation plan referred 
to in paragraph 9 (a) (i) of this Schedule and complete the training of trainers under 
Part C.4 (i) of the Project for the First Group of Districts in the Province of 
Sulawesi Selatan. 
16.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
annually prepare two reports, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish such reports to the Association, on or about April 30 and 
October 31, respectively, each report to integrate the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and to set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c)
annually review with the Association, by June 30 and December 31 or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
17.
The Borrower shall carry out the training under the Project in accordance with 
training programs acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5 
Procedures and Conditions for Grants,
Scholarships and Private School Grants
Part I.
 Procedures and Conditions for Grants and Scholarships under Part A of 
the Project
1.
Grants, as described in Part A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, shall be made 
on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written agreement with each of the 
schools or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association, including the right to: 
(a)
require that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and construction 
financed by the Grant, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
and 
Page  16
(c)
suspend or terminate the right of the school to the use of the proceeds 
of the Grant, upon failure by such school to perform its obligations under its 
agreement with the Borrower. 
2.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, select schools on 
the basis of criteria acceptable to the Association, including poverty rating of the 
community where the school is located.
3.
Grants shall be used exclusively for expenditures by primary and junior 
secondary schools for: (i) instructional materials (including library books, reference 
books, atlases, charts and posters); (ii) consumable materials (including student’s 
notebooks, chalk, pencils, and supplies for practical subjects); (iii) minor repairs 
and maintenance at schools (including painting and repair of windows, doors, classroom 
desks and chairs, roofs, toilets, water drainage and footpaths); (iv) examination 
fees; and (v) public transportation for teachers attending KKG training.
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:  
(a)
the Grant per school shall not be more than Rp. 2,000,000 per year for 
primary schools and not more than Rp. 4,000,000 per year for junior secondary schools; 
and 
(b)
the scholarship for junior secondary school students shall not be more 
than Rp. 240,000 per student per year. 
Part II.
Procedures and Conditions for Private School Grants under Part C. 6 of 
the Project
1.
Private School Grants, as described in Part C.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written agreement with 
each of the schools or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, including the right to: 
(a)
require that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and construction 
financed by the Private School Grant, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents; and 
(c)
suspend or terminate the right of the school to the use of the proceeds 
of the Private School Grant, upon failure by such school to perform its obligations 
under its agreement with the Borrower. 
2.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C.6 of the Project, select private 
schools on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Association, such criteria to 
include the exclusion of rehabilitation of school buildings for schools being 
rehabilitated under Part C.2 of the Project.
3.
Private School Grants shall be used exclusively for expenditures by primary and 
junior secondary private schools for: (i) rehabilitation of school buildings; (ii) 
acquisition of school equipment; and (iii) acquisition of school furniture. 
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Private School Grant per 
school shall not be more than Rp. 30,000,000 equivalent. 
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Private Schools shall 
finance at least 25% of the expenditures referred to in paragraph 3 of Part II of this 
Schedule.
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PPI, TABLE IS TOO BIG)
Page  17
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (9) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,250,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$11,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1f
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
Page  18
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account and the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the 
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished  to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account and the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
