 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14858

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 10/14/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P096707                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Guangdong Technical         Project Costs (US$M):                      45.62                45.62
                         And Vocational
                         Education And
                         Training Pr
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      20.00                19.62
      Sector Board:      Education                   Cofinancing (US$M):                       0.60                 0.37

          Cofinanciers: Republic of Korea           Board Approval Date :                                   06/02/2009
                        Economic                            Closing Date:             12/31/2014            12/31/2014
                        Development
                        Cooperation Fund
         Sector(s):     Vocational training (95%); Public administration- Education (5%)
         Theme(s):      Education for the knowledge economy (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Susan Ann Caceres         Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Agreement (p. 7), the project development objective was "to improve the quality and
    relevance of technical education in three schools and produce lessons from this experience as a guide to future
    school reforms and policy development." The same objective was also noted in the Project Appraisal Document
    (PAD, p. 5).

    A project restructuring in July 2012 involved the refinement of one outcome indicator for consistency with
    government reporting (percent of graduates finding initial employment within three months in the specialties in
    which they were trained, changed to percent of graduates finding initial employment within six months). While
    this restructuring involved a change in the definition, there continued to be another indicator measuring relevance
    of employment (whether employment was in the field of training). The target for the revised indicator was
    adjusted, as the baseline value was higher when the time period to find employment was changed from three to
    six months. Thus, the revised indicator did not lower the bar, but merely aligned with the time period typically
    measured by governments. All targets were exceeded, and therefore weighting would have no impact on the
    rating for the objective or outcome. A split rating is therefore not warranted.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    There were two components (the ICR does not include the Borrower contribution by component):

        School-Based Reforms and Innovation (appraisal, US$19.73 million; actual, US$19.35 million). Establishes
         advisory bodies and agreements to engage technical specialists in the development of new curricula and
         certification system to strengthen school and industry linkages to improve the relevance of training. Training,
         study tours, technical assistance are provided to build capacity for school management and effective use of
         school resources. Provincial project management offices coordinate training plans of each of the three
         project schools: Guangdong Light Industry Secondary and Tertiary School (GLIS), Guangdong Urban
         Construction Secondary and Tertiary School (GUCS), and Yangjiang Secondary and Tertiary Technical
         School (YTS). New curricula and instructional materials based on competency standards are created.
         Testing and certification instruments are developed along with competency-based benchmarks for
         measuring student and school performance. Instructional capacity is strengthened so that teachers know
         how to use student learning assessment and competency-based curriculum, and shift their lecture styles to
         become more learner-centered. Facilities and instructional equipment are upgraded within the three schools
         to align with the new competency-based training (CBT) curricula.
        Policy Development and Capacity Building (appraisal, US$0.62 million; actual, US$0.59 million). Supports
         policy studies on key issues in technical and vocational education; designs and implements beneficiary
         assessments, tracer studies, and impact evaluations; and establishes school management information
         systems to monitor school performance. Also supports project management, coordination, and
         dissemination by the Provincial Project Management Office (PMO).


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs: The Borrower’s completion report indicates that total project costs were US$45.62 million when
   Borrower contributions are included, which is consistent with the appraisal document (PAD p. 49). Actual
   disbursements for each component were consistent with planned amounts, and 98% of the loan disbursed.

   Financing: The IBRD provided a loan in the amount of US$20 million, and the Republic of Korea contributed
   US$0.4 million through a Trust Fund. The amount noted in the appraisal document (PAD p. 49) was slightly
   higher, US$0.6 million, as it included funding for two impact evaluations for two additional provinces.
   Borrower Contributions : The Borrower's completion report indicated that it provided US$25.52 million in
   counterpart financing, which is slightly higher than the amount anticipated at appraisal (US$25.02 million) (PAD
   p. 49).
   Dates: The project closed on December 31, 2014, as planned. There were no extensions. A restructuring
   occurred in 2012 to change the indicator for the percentage of graduates that find initial employment within three
   months to six months, to align with government reporting.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Relevance of Objective : High
   China has experienced rapid growth with employment shifting into manufacturing and service industries, which
   has increased the demand for more skilled labor. Guangdong province is one of the leading areas in China for
   labor-intensive manufacturing, with exports from this province accounting for nearly one-third of the nation’s total
   exports. The education and training of workers is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Ministry of
   Human Resources and Social Security. There is limited private provision of skills training, and the quality of this
   training is variable and generally lower than that provided by public institutions (ICR, p. 2). The government has
   focused on upgrading school infrastructure and improving access to rural and poor areas, as well as establishing
   a student aid system. More students are pursuing vocational and technical education, as reflected by the growth
   in enrollment (55 percent and 158 percent respectively) (ICR, p. 1).
                                                                                                                th
   The development objectives are aligned with Government priorities, as referenced in the Government’s 11
   Five-Year Plan (2006-2010), which notes the importance of technical and vocational education and training
   (TVET) institutions and the need for more relevant technical and vocational education. The Government has also
   developed a Vocational Education Plan (2014-2020) to promote increased access to quality and relevant TVET
   schools with stronger school-industry linkages. The development objectives were also aligned with two of the
   pillars in the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (2006-2010) at appraisal: improving public and market
   institutions, and reducing poverty, inequality and social exclusion. This project specifically worked to improve the
   performance and accountability of TVET institutions, which predominantly serve students from rural areas and
   low-income households. The project remained relevant to the Bank Country Partnership Strategy at closing
   (2013-2016), which emphasizes skill development programs.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance of Design: Substantial
   Guangdong province was selected because of its advanced economic status and strong capacity. It was hoped
   that the experiences of this project could serve as a model for other provinces. Project design recognized that
   teachers would need to shift their teaching styles and instructional content, and so put in place supports to
   facilitate the needed changes: advisory committees, sector advisory committees, training at TVET schools, and
   study tours abroad. Civil works and equipment were aligned with topics advanced in CBT modules. An
   important design feature was having teachers and other key staff in project schools learn from countries with
   effective TVET systems, such as Singapore and Germany. Project design ensured that schools did not focus on
   upgrading technology and infrastructure, but instead emphasize more important activities such as CBT reform. It
   tied the provision of buildings and equipment to the CBT reform. The knowledge activities funded by Trust Funds
   were well integrated into project activities. For example, the strengthening of school information systems
   improved the ability to collect student and teacher data. In sum, there was a plausible and logical alignment
   between each of the project development objectives and planned activities.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improve the quality of technical education in three schools : Substantial

   Outputs:
        YTS was upgraded during the project from an ordinary technical school to a technical college, allowing it to
         offer a higher level technician certification. The other two project schools were upgraded from advanced
         technical schools to technical colleges, which implies that the schools are able to offer certification and
         diplomas equivalent to an associate’s degree. Upgrading is based on national and provincial criteria such as
         teacher qualifications, curriculum development, number of square meters per student, and availability of
         courses/equipment.
        Within the three schools, 9,146 students enrolled in CBT classes developed under the project.
         Approximately 26 percent were female.
        Within the three schools, 23, 826 teachers and school administrators were trained.
        Upgraded instructional equipment, facilities and technology was provided in the three schools, reaching
         approximately 70% of students.
        Student learning outcomes were disclosed to the public. Information such as the number and percentage of
         students passing certification exams and gaining employment were shared publicly by all three schools. 11
         majors across the 3 schools used CBT assessment to evaluate students (ICR, p. 30).
        The percentage of school performance goals that were met increased from 70% in 2009 to 96% in 2014,
         exceeding the target (85%).
        The percentage of students enrolled in CBT curricula increased from none at the start of the project to 82%
         at the end of the project, exceeding the target (77%).
        The percentage of instructors using the new CBT curricula increased from none at the start of the project to
         75% at the end of the project, exceeding the target (63%). The ICR (p. 30) reports that instruction was
         transformed from teacher-centered to student-centered at all three schools, and instructors continued to
         expand this approach through thematic workshops and training sessions. This observation was similarly
         reported by teachers in the beneficiary assessment, who stated that the various trainings contributed to
         improvement in their capacity (ICR, p. 49).
        The percentage of students utilizing upgraded instructional technology aligned with the new CBT increased
         from none at the start of the project to 72% at the end of the project, exceeding the target (60%).
   Outcomes:
        The percentage of students assessed with outcome-based student assessments increased from none at the
         start of the project to 83% at the end of the project, exceeding the target (63%).
        The percentage of graduates who passed skill certification exams increased from 70% in 2009 to 90% in
         2014, exceeding the target (85%). The project evaluation found that students from two project schools (YTS
     and GLIS) who received competency-based coursework had a higher rate of passing the examination on the
     first try in comparison to those who did not receive competency-based coursework (YTS: 97% pass rate for
     CBT students compared to 93% for non-CBT students; GLIS: 97% for CBT and 87% for non-CBT students).

Improve the relevance of technical education in three schools : Substantial

Outputs:

    CBT syllabi, curriculum standards, and textbooks were developed for 21 occupational programs and rolled
     out in all three schools. 38 industry technical committees were established to assist in the development of
     standards, curricula, and testing. 38 marketing packages were developed to promote school training.
    During the project, 14 advisory bodies were established, with half of their members from industry to ensure
     market relevance of curricula and facilitate school-industry collaboration. These bodies also developed
     proposals for courses and guidelines for school-industry partnerships.
    280 school-industry cooperative agreements were signed to formalize the requirements and responsibilities
     of school and industry.
    The percentage of industrial experts and enterprises participating in teaching within project schools
     increased from 2% in 2009 to 26% in 2014, exceeding the target (12%).
    The percentage of instructors trained in industry attachments increased from 10% in 2009 to 72% in 2014,
     exceeding the target (50%).
    The percentage of students participating in internship programs in their specialty increased from 42% in
     2009 to 89% in 2014, exceeding the target (83%).
Outcomes:

    The percentage of graduates finding initial employment within 6 months of graduation increased from 86% in
     2009 to 99% in 2014, exceeding the target (92%).

    The project evaluation found that graduates who were employed full time in occupations relevant to their
     major increased from 48% to 59%.
    The starting salary of graduates who participated in competency-based curricula increased from 950 yuan in
     2009 to 2,625 yuan in 2014, exceeding the target (1,187 yuan).
The completion report (p. 34) discusses other factors that could have also contributed to the observed results.
Prior to the project, enrollments in higher education and technical vocational education had surged, and wages
had also risen around 8-9 percent, particularly in manufacturing and services. Stronger candidates may have
enrolled in CBT modules, suggesting that more selective graduates could have entered, as shown by the higher
rejection rate in some schools/programs. This dynamic would have created more successful job market
candidates.


Produce lessons to guide future school reforms and policy development : Substantial

Outputs:
    All three schools participated in the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security's research program
     allowing teachers to share lessons learned in developing and implementing CBT, and to conduct research
     on CBT implementation.
    All three schools participated in knowledge sharing activities with non-project schools in the province. The
     schools produced reports and Distinguished Papers on World Bank Loan Guangdong Technical and
     Vocational Education and Training Project.
    Three policy studies were completed, which met the target. The studies addressed topics such as financing
     of TVET, school-industry linkages, and governance structure. All of these studies were disseminated by the
     National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) via workshops and policy briefs.
    Information management systems were developed for each school: teaching resource platform, employment
     tracking system, school-industry collaboration, multi-evaluation system, examination database, teaching
     quality assessment system, and distance teaching platform.
Outcomes:
    The policy studies have informed the revision of China's Vocational Education Law and development of the
         13th Five Year Plan for the provincial government.
        Provincial capacity for planning and management was enhanced. One indication of this was the fact that
         two new technical education regulations (i.e. Guideline for the Development of National Training Standard
         for High-skilled Talents and Technical Specifications for the Development of Integrated Curriculum) were
         issued by the provincial Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security during the project.


5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Substantial.

    The PAD noted that, while most benefits from technical and vocational education investments accrue to
    individuals, this project would produce social benefits from its investment in competency-based training curricula,
    policy studies, and capacity building. The cost-benefit analysis assumed that wages of graduates from project
    schools would be higher than those in non- project schools. Estimates were based on conservative assumptions
    of the number of students enrolled in CBT courses and the time period that these benefits accrue up to retirement
    at 60 years. The internal rate of return was found to be 19% (lower bound estimate was 11%) with an expected
    net gain of US$62.3 million. The PAD also estimated the fiscal impact of the project on incremental recurrent
    costs and concluded that it was minor (approximately 5%) and manageable.

    The ICR did not recalculate these estimates, as the expected data from the impact evaluation did not materialize,
    since the assumption of comparable non-project schools was not realized. Instead, it uses administrative data
    and project evaluations to examine wages, employment, and unit costs. While the number of graduates in
    project schools fluctuated over time, the number of CBT graduates grew over the project period in two of the
    schools. Wages across sectors have risen in the province between 2008 and 2013, with the rate of growth higher
    for graduates of CBT courses, but differences were noted across schools. For example, graduates from CBT
    courses at YTS experienced a higher increase in salaries during the project period than those from non-CBT
    courses, while wages for all GUCS graduates (whether CBT or non-CBT) grew. Graduates from GLIS had
    slightly lower wage growth in comparison to graduates at the other two project schools. The project evaluation
    indicated that students who took CBT courses had higher rates of employment than those who participated in
    non-CBT courses. In addition, project beneficiaries received more offers of employment and experienced lower
    job-seeking costs.

    Other qualitative aspects of the project's cost-effectiveness suggest efficiencies such as: use of industry
    engagement to connect skills with market demand, emphasis on outcomes, project closing as planned without
    extension, and 98% of the credit disbursed. There were improvements in campus management from the
    development of information systems. There was savings of US$ 415,000 from fewer overseas training activities
    than planned. Uniform contract templates were developed. Fairly consistent unit costs across schools were
    found in relation to publication and equipment, while there was a range in square meter costs for construction,
    which may be related to how costs were reported. The ICR indicates that construction costs were well in line with
    provincial standards. Over the course of the project, there was a substantial increase in the percentage (38 to 52
    percent) of students enrolled from lower-income families (i.e. rural migrant and farmer families), showing the
    investment benefitted the poor. The project closed on schedule and on budget.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                          Yes                                     19%                                     100%
    ICR estimate                       No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of objectives was rated high, and design was substantially relevant. Achievement of all of the
    objectives was rated substantial. Efficiency was substantial. Overall outcome is rated Satisfactory, which is
    indicative of only minor shortcomings in preparation and implementation.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   There are several factors that help to mitigate the risk to the development outcome. The Government continues
   support for CBT and the reforms initiated by the project. It has expanded CBT within the province and to other
   provinces and has maintained financial support. Project data show that teachers have adopted the practices
   introduced through the reform. Training has helped to improve provincial and school-level capacity. The Bank
   has a follow-up operation in the Guangdon province that incorporates a number of the activities that were begun
   under the project, such as CBT and school-industry linkages. Given all of these factors, the risk to the
   development outcome is low.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   To broaden perspectives of areas to emphasize in the project (not just infrastructure), workshops were
   organized in Singapore to bring together stakeholders from central, provincial and school levels. A study tour
   of Singaporean institutes and professional organizations served to promote best practices in technical and
   vocational education. These activities enhanced preparation and helped guide the development of project
   design. The Bank ensured government buy-in by involving all levels of staff -- central, provincial, and school
   -- and ensuring that multiple ministries were present in discussions. The Bank also engaged with other donor
   partners to finalize design. Once the decision was made to focus the project on one province, preparation
   advanced quickly (within five months), as the Bank was able to provided targeted support to the Guangdong
   province.

   Preparation learned from the experiences implementing competency-based training and establishing
   school-industry linkages under the Australia-supported Chongqing Vocational Education and Training Project.
   It also benefited from focused analytical work on the topic. The Bank was proactive in securing trust funds
   from the Korean Government to support policy development, evaluation, and dissemination of lessons.
   Retroactive financing was allowed (up to US$4 million) for teacher training expenditures incurred after 2009 to
   front-load capacity building. The activities funded by the trust fund grant were fully integrated into project
   design and were an integral part of the project. Preparation also benefited from peer reviewers and other
   partners who participated in the concept and appraisal review meeting. A Quality Enhancement Review was
   conducted. Risks were appropriately identified and mitigated. Indicators were finalized based on consultation
   between schools, the Project Management Office, and the Bank. Minor shortcomings at entry included: a
   procurement manual and guidelines for schools were not developed during preparation, and one of the
   indicators was not aligned with government reporting.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team conducted seven missions between 2010 and 2014. A mid-term review was used to address
   weaknesses and highlight implementation successes. While there were changes in TTLs, the transitions
   were smooth. There was a consistent Beijing-based TTL from the beginning of implementation until closing,
   which permitted informal visits between official supervisory missions. At mid-term review, it was decided to
   adjust the definition of one indicator (time period to find initial employment from 3 months to 6 months) to
   align with the province’s monitoring. The Bank provided continuous support to both provincial and school
   levels, as this was the first project not centrally coordinated. The Bank identified potential bottlenecks and
   worked to resolve them. There was continuous interaction between the Project Management Office, project
   schools, and the Bank through information meetings and missions. The Bank provided appropriate training in
   financial management and procurement workshops. It monitored safeguard compliance and satisfied internal
   recording to keep Bank management informed of progress. The team supported additional knowledge
   sharing beyond what was anticipated.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory
  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government exhibited a high level of commitment to this project. Central government officials remained
   actively involved throughout the life of the project. Preparation was filled with technically sound staff from
   national and provincial levels and comprised finance, education, development and reform, and labor and
   social security. The project became effective within four months of Board approval. Lessons learned from
   this project and policy studies have been shared outside the province, laying the foundation for influencing
   policy discussion at other levels. The Government has supported the CBT approach and is using materials
   produced by the project to guide other provinces.

   A new model for implementation was developed, where implementation was led at the provincial level, based
   on an agreement with the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Finance. This
   meant that project components focused on the school and provincial levels and did not have a central
   government component and coordinating function. This was the first instance within the education sector of
   decentralized management and fund transfer directly to participating schools.
   Minor shortcomings were overcome during implementation. Policy research and sharing initially advanced at
   a slow pace, partly due to the lengthy time to complete the signing of the Trust Fund agreement and agree on
   most appropriate implementation arrangement. This resulted in delaying signing contracts with the research
   companies that would complete the impact evaluation and policy research. One school experienced
   construction delays (as well as a permit problem), which had some negative impact on implementation
   (crowded teaching space and slowed acquisition and use of equipment).


  Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Implementation was overseen by the provincial Project Management Office (PMO), which had responsibility
   for the three project schools. A Project Steering Committee was also formed, led by the Director General of
   Human Resources and Social Security with representatives from provincial departments of finance,
   development and reform. This committee provided coordination and guidance on project implementation and
   enabled inter-agency coordination. Advisory committees were established for each school to facilitate
   partnerships, communication, and linkages between school and industry. The advisory committees also
   assisted in the development of competency-based standards and modules. These arrangements provided a
   bottom-up implementation approach.

   The PMO exhibited excellent management of fiduciary and project implementation. Within a short period of
   time, a number of activities were implemented: construction, industrial experts teaching at schools, students
   participating in internship programs, development of assessment tools, evaluation of student
   learning/performance, teacher and school administrator participation in training, and policy studies. Civil
   works and procurement of equipment initially advanced more slowly than anticipated, primarily due to PMO
   and project school unfamiliarity with Bank procurement processes and issues with delays in mobilizing
   counterpart funds for one project school. By the time of the midterm review, disbursements were half of the
   loan amount. The PMO provided regular data to the Bank to assess implementation progress and
   achievement of the objectives. Under the supervision of the PMO, schools implemented all planned activities.
   Financial reports were submitted on time; however, the procurement plan and guidelines were not finalized
   during preparation.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework contained a complement of key performance indicators and intermediate outcome
   indicators that were appropriate for measuring achievement of the objectives as well as project implementation.
   An impact evaluation was planned to compare project school graduates and non-project school graduates over
   time along key dimensions such as employment rates and starting salaries. It was not possible to find
   comparable schools for a counterfactual, and therefore the evaluation approach was modified to a project
   evaluation that compared students within project schools participating in CBT modules (developed under the
   project) and those enrolled in non-CBT modules. This evaluation was to be used to generate data on
   project-level indicators, but did not result in outcome data solely attributable to project interventions. Data
   collected at the school level also included a beneficiary assessment, tracer system, and course assessment.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The project evaluation yielded data to document achievement of the objectives. Data were regularly collected
   and provided to the Bank. The schools' ability to collect and analyze student tracking data improved over the
   project period. The data collected by schools included information on school-industry collaboration, teacher
   effectiveness and promotion, student performance, and number of industry experts teaching in schools. Results
   were shared online through China's version of Twitter (Weixin). The PMO hired an independent firm to conduct
   its own impact evaluation of the project.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The findings of the beneficiary assessment and course development assessment were shared during
   implementation and used to help schools improve the courses and material developed. These findings outlined
   weaknesses in implementation and helped improve school plans and school marketing campaigns. Participating
   in the impact evaluation also served to produce learning on the design and conducting of impact evaluations, as
   well as data analysis. Use of these data resulted in changes at the school, provincial and national level, including
   the institutionalization of school-industry cooperation and use of CBT in schools outside of the project. Moreover,
   the province issued national guidelines in 2013 related to TVET that were informed by the research activities
   under the project.

M&E Quality Rating: High




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was rated Category C for Environment and Social Safeguards (OP 4.01) due to the remodeling and
   construction of additional training space, workshops, and laboratories for skills training on already acquired land.
   An Environmental Management Framework was developed, and satisfactory ratings for compliance in this area
   occurred during the course of the project. Each project school ensured compliance with the Framework, which
   was monitored by the PMO. Improvements in safeguard compliance were implemented such as the timely
   removal of solid waste, acceleration of greening, and reduction of noise and dust. Public consultation was held
   prior to and during construction.
   While the project did not trigger any social safeguards, the project did conduct assessments of the satisfaction of
   beneficiaries.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management was rated satisfactory throughout the life of the project. All financial reports were
   provided on time and without issue. While there were initial delays in civil works, this was partly attributed to
   attention directed towards infrastructure for the Asian Games (2010). This initially slowed down the pace of
   disbursements, but by mid-term disbursements accelerated and remained on track. There was confusion among
   project schools regarding eligible expenditures for innovative activities. Financial management was enhanced by
    collaboration between the PMO and the provincial department of finance, the Development Reform Commission,
    and Ministry of Finance. The strengthening of school-level fiduciary management was provided by the Bank and
    PMO. Guidelines were developed to clarify issues with innovative activities during implementation, rather than at
    entry. School-level capacity for internal management and control improved.
    Procurement: Audits were unqualified and procurement was rated satisfactory, except for one report in January
    2012, given the delays in procurement for civil works and innovation activities. Delays were partially related to
    delays in obtaining permits given the time that was being devoted to ensuring infrastructure was ready for the
    Asian Games. By the end of the project, all procurement was completed. Procurement manuals were
    established during the project, rather than at preparation. The PMO reviewed procurement plans prepared by the
    schools and put in place assurance mechanisms.
    While the PMO had fiduciary and auditing responsibility, the Department of Finance (which had prior World Bank
    experience) also provided support.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Exemplary

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG has synthesized the lessons presented in the ICR (p. 23-24) to the following:

    Policy development is most effectively linked to school -level reform. The project front-loaded technical
    assistance and training to accelerate capacity development of teachers to develop new curricula, and then tied
    the buildings and equipment to the new courses that were developed. Linking these aspects, incentivized
    curriculum reform and ensured infrastructure improvement was not the aim.
    Exposure to international best practice can facilitate school reform . School administrators and teachers found
    the study tours pivotal to helping them understand CBT and student-centered techniques. These tours and
    other training were positive factors in enhancing implementation of CBT curricula. The sharing of experiences
    among project schools also helped increase teachers’ commitment to the reform.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    Considering the content in the main report, annexes, and Borrower's report, the ICR's quality is rated as
    exemplary. The ICR is clear, concise, well written, and thorough, and it follows OPCS guidelines. The analysis in
    the ICR is very strong. Instead of a simple implementation narrative, the ICR analyzes the factors that facilitated
    or hindered success. It is fair and accurate in its assessments of Bank and Borrower performance. It goes
    beyond discussion of the indicators to address overall achievement of the objectives, with many insightful
    observations and analyses. The completion report fully uses the data from the impact evaluation and beneficiary
    assessment to conduct analysis, particularly for efficacy and efficiency. It provides a balanced analysis of
    attribution of results of the project's interventions, as it describes other factors that also contributed. The lessons
    are well derived from project experience and useful for the region and beyond.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Exemplary
