                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003094



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IBRD-77200 TF-94998)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

          AND A TRUST FUND IN THE AMOUNT OF US$0.4 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

GUANGDONG TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                         PROJECT



                                 June 23, 2015




Education Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective June 7, 2015)

             Currency Unit = Chinese RMB
                 RMB 1.00 = US$0.16
                 US$1.00 = RMB 6.20

                   FISCAL YEAR
                January 1-December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB            Asian Development Bank
ARCD           Assessment Report for Course Development
BA             Beneficiary Assessment
CPS            Country Partnership Strategy
CBT            Competency Based Training
CANO           China National Audit Office
DA             Designated Account
DO             Development Objectives
DOF            Department of Finance
DOLSSP         Department of Labor and Social Security
DRC            Development Reform Commission
EMF            Environmental Management Framework
FB             Financial Bureau
FMM            Financial Management Manual
GDFB           Guangdong Finance Bureau
GDHRSS         Guangdong Human Resources and Social Security
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GLIS           Guangdong Light Industry Secondary and Tertiary School
GNI            Gross National Income
GUCS           Guangdong Urban Construction Secondary and Tertiary
               School
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT            Information Communication Technology
IE             Impact Evaluation
IFR            Interim Financial Report
ISR            Implementation Status and Results Reports
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOHRSS         Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security
MOLSS          Ministry of Labor and Social Security
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NDRC           National Development and Reform Commission




                           ii
PAD                      Project Appraisal Document
PMO                      Project Management Office
RMB                      Renminbi
TVET                     Technical and Vocational Education and Training
YTS                      Yangjiang Secondary and Tertiary Technical School




  Vice President:                     Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
  Country Director:                   Bert Hofman, EACCF
  Practice Manager:                   Harry Anthony Patrinos, GEDDR
  Project Team Leader:                Liping Xiao, GEDDR
  ICR Team Leader:                    Liping Xiao, GEDDR



                                     iii
                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
          Guangdong Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project


                                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 14
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 19
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 19
   6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................. 22
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 23
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 24
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ............................................................................................. 25
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 33
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation/Supervision Support ......................................... 45
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 47
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 50
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 51
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 63
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 64
   MAP.......................................................................................................................................... 65




                                                                       iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Guangdong Technical
                                                                          and Vocational
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Education and Training
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P096707                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-77200,TF-94998
ICR Date:               06/23/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 20.40M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 19.99M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 20.40M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Guangdong Provincial Department of Human Resources and Social
Security
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/23/2007     Effectiveness:                               10/08/2009
Appraisal:            10/06/2008     Restructuring(s):                            07/31/2012
Approval:             06/02/2009     Mid-term Review:           05/21/2012        05/21/2012
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2014        12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Education                                      5                     5
Vocational training                                                   95                   95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                   100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                          David R. Dollar
Practice
                           Harry Anthony Patrinos               Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Liping Xiao                          Dingyong Hou
ICR Team Leader:           Liping Xiao
ICR Primary Author:        Franco Russo, Sandra F. Beemer


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to improve the quality and relevance of technical
education in three schools and produce lessons from this experience as a guide for future
school reforms and policy development. The project objective will be achieved with the
support of: (i) school-based reforms and innovations to improve quality and relevance of
technical and vocational education, and (ii) policy development and capacity building that
help capture lessons drawn from the three school sites.




                                               vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                          Actual Value
                                        Values (from Formally Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                          approval         Target Values        Completion or
                                        documents)                              Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percent of graduates who pass skill certification exams
Value                                                                        90.37%
quantitative or   70%                  85%                                   Source: School
qualitative)                                                                 records
Date achieved     04/30/2009           12/31/2014                            12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percent of graduates finding initial employment within 6 months
Value
                                       56% (target for 3 92% (target for 6 98.51%
quantitative or   86%
                                       months)           months)           Source: PMO
qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2009           12/31/2014         12/31/2014         12/31/2014
Comments
                  Target exceeded. This indicator was modified during the 2012 restructuring to
(incl. %
                  change the period of time from 3 months to 6 months.
achievement)
                  The starting salary of graduates (graduates with competency based
Indicator 3 :
                  curricula versus trainees without this curricula)
Value
                                                                             ￥2,625
quantitative or ￥950                   ￥1,187
                                                                             Source: PMO
qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2009               12/31/2014                            12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
                Percentage of instructors trained in industry attachments (in the same
Indicator 1 :
                specialties)
Value                                                                     71.79%
(quantitative   10%                      43%                              Source: School
or qualitative)                                                           records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
                Target exceeded
(incl. %

                                                vii
achievement)
                Percentage of industrial experts and enterprises participated in teaching in
Indicator 2 :
                schools
Value                                                                     26.28%
(quantitative   2%                       12%                              Source: School
or qualitative)                                                           records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)
                Percent of students participating in internship programs (in the same
Indicator 3 :
                specialties
Value                                                                     88.2%
(quantitative   42%                      83%                              Source: School
or qualitative)                                                           records
 Date achieved 04/30/2009                12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Percent of school annual performance goals met
Value                                                                     96%
(quantitative   70%                      85%                              Source: School
or qualitative)                                                           records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Percent of students enrolled in modular CBT curricula
Value                                                                     81.66%
quantitative or 0                        77%                              Source: School
qualitative)                                                              records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Percent of students assessed with outcomes-based student assessment
Value                                                                     83.1%
quantitative or 0                        63%                              Source: School
qualitative)                                                              records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Percent of instructors using new CBT curricula
Value                                                                     75.29%
quantitative or 0                        63%                              Source: School
qualitative)                                                              records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014


                                             viii
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
                Percent of students utilizing upgraded instructional technology aligned with
Indicator 8 :
                new CBT
Value                                                                         71.97%
quantitative or 0                          60%                                Source: School
qualitative)                                                                  records
Date achieved 04/30/2009                   12/31/2014                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Number of key policy studies disseminated
Value
                                                                              3
quantitative or 0                          3
                                                                              Source: NDRC
qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2009                   12/31/2014                         12/31/2014
Comments
                Target met. The three policy studies were completed and disseminated by NDRC
(incl. %
                through workshops and policy briefs in 2014.
achievement)
                Disclosure to the public of student learning outcomes (e.g. number and
Indicator 10 :
                percentage of students passing certificate exams, employment etc.)
Value
                                                                              3
quantitative or 0                          3
                                                                              Source: Schools
qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2009                   12/31/2014                         12/31/2014
Comments
                Target met. All three schools disclose student learning outcomes on their school
(incl. %
                websites.
achievement)
                 Enhancing provincial capacity for planning and management as measured
Indicator 11 :
                by the number of tasks
Value
quantitative or 0                          2                                  2
qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2009                   12/31/2014                         12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator tracks the number of new policies or regulations issued by the
(incl. %
                Guangdong HRSS during project implementation. This indicator has been met.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                DO                      IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     08/05/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/13/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.70
  3     04/26/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.50
  4     02/22/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     9.83
  5     09/17/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   12.07

                                               ix
  6    04/14/2013           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 16.34
  7    10/23/2013           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 16.34
  8    05/31/2014           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 16.34
  9    12/16/2014           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 19.95

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The proposed change in the
                                                     indicator is from "the percent of
                                                     graduates finding initial
                                                     employment within 3 months in
 07/31/2012       N       S       S          12.07
                                                     the specialties in which they are
                                                     trained" to "the percent of
                                                     graduates finding initial
                                                     employment within 6 months".

I. Disbursement Profile




                                           x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Country context. Since 1978, China experienced rapid economy expansion that
led to an annual growth rate of 9 percent, lifting some 400 million people out of poverty.
The expansion shifted employment into manufacturing and service industries with growth
rates twice those of agriculture; 10 percent and 4 percent respectively. This growth rate
accelerated industrialization and technological change, increasing the demand for new
skills. China responded with increased investment in compulsory education up to 9 years,
expansion of enrollments in vocational secondary education with improvements in quality
and teaching reforms, and expansion and improvements in the quality of higher education.

2.     In 2006, Guangdong Province, one of China’s centers of growth, accounted for
approximately 12.4 percent of national GDP. The province’s economic boom began in the
early 1990s and by 2009 the economy was based on manufacturing and exports. Its GDP
in 2009 was almost 5 trillion RMB equivalent to US$0.63 trillion. Guangdong was part of
the labor intensive manufacturing powerhouse that China had become with its exports
accounting for 31 percent of the nation’s total exports. Gains in agricultural productivity
had created a large pool of surplus labor that led to rural to urban migration. As a result,
Guangdong needed to introduce changes in the structure of employment and reduce the
importance of older labor-intensive industries using large quantities of low wage, unskilled
labor.

3.       Sectoral context. In the late 1990s, state-owned enterprises began to shift
responsibility for skilled worker education and training to the Ministry of Education
(MOE) and Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (MOHRSS) (formerly the
Ministry of Labor - MOL). In addition, the market opened to private providers of skills,
but their capacity was only beginning to emerge and did not ensure uniform access.
Government's strategy had been focused on upgrading school infrastructure and
addressing issues of access to education by allocating more resources to rural and poor
areas and setting up student aid systems. Spending on education in 2005 increased from
2.8 percent of GDP to 3.0 percent in 2006.

4.      Secondary education nationally was separated into general, vocational, and
technical schools with the first two under the direction of the MOE and the third under
the MOHRSS. Overall, enrollments in vocational and technical schools in Guangdong
had increased from 15 percent of all secondary enrollments in 2000 to 15.7 percent in
2006. Between 2000 and 2006, new enrollments in vocational and technical secondary
schools grew by 55 and 158 percent, respectively, while the increase in general secondary
schools grew by approximately 35 percent. This was evidence that more students were
pursuing a secondary education and a larger share were pursuing skills through vocational
and technical education.




                                             1
5.       Higher education included a mix of institutions covering universities, colleges
(including technical colleges and senior vocational training colleges), and adult colleges.
Several of the senior secondary technical and vocational schools also delivered two years
of post-secondary education, and thus had a 3 + 2 year structure. Enrollments in higher
education had surged since 2000, from 299,500 to 1,008,000 in 2006. Similar to higher
education in other industrializing countries, vocational content was expanding in the first
two years as the demand for more advanced skills continued to grow along with the
economy. The expansion of secondary and higher education enrollments was consistent
with an economy that was becoming more knowledge-based.

6.       In Guangdong, placement rates on graduation were generally higher than the
national average of 70 percent, further increasing demand. The investment in public
vocational education had come at a time when the training capacity of state-owned
enterprises had been diminished. Like many other areas with rapid growth in China,
Guangdong had begun to face new challenges as economic forces had begun to introduce
changes in the structure of its employment and reduce the importance of older labor-
intensive industries using large quantities of low wage, unskilled labor. These industries
had begun to feel competitive pressures on exports from rising labor costs and
appreciation of the RMB. Wages, long kept low by the flow of surplus labor from rural
areas, including from within Guangdong itself, had begun to rise, with wages in
manufacturing and services outpacing those in agriculture. As a result, the mix of
industries had started to shift with the expansion of new knowledge-based industries
leading to a growing demand for skills. Demand for vocational and technical education
was strong, measured by the increase in enrollments.

7.        Public provision of vocational and technical education filled an important gap,
to respond to the demand for advanced skills in Guangdong against a background of
limited private provision. In 2005, there were 123 private vocational senior secondary
schools in Guangdong. These schools enrolled 80,171 students with the average school
size about half that of public vocational secondary schools. An Asian Development Bank
(ADB) study in 2006 reported that the quality of private vocational schools in China was
variable and, on average, lower than that of public schools. Private secondary vocational
schools account for just over 7 percent of vocational and technical enrollments in the
province. Public vocational and technical secondary schools face capacity constraints
resulting in as many as 40 percent of applicants being turned away. While demand was
strong, there were issues of quality and relevance in these schools. Equipment for practice
was limited, curricula were often outdated and disconnected from industry requirements,
instructors lacked adequate industry experience and teaching skills, and managers lacked
the skills needed for functioning in a rapidly changing economy. The strength of the labor
market nevertheless assured jobs for graduates. School-based reforms for quality and
relevance were needed to support the transition to a more knowledge-based economy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.     The project development objective was to improve the quality and relevance of
technical education in three schools and produce lessons from this experience as a guide

                                             2
for future school reforms and policy development 1 . The project objective was to be
achieved with the support of: (i) school-based reforms and innovations to improve quality
and relevance of technical and vocational education, and (ii) policy development and
capacity building that help capture lessons drawn from the three school sites. The key
indicators as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were: (i) percent of graduates
who pass skill certification; (ii) percent of graduates finding initial employment within
three months in the specialties in which they were trained; and (iii) the starting salary of
graduates (graduates with competency based curricula versus trainees without this
curricula).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.      The PDO was not modified over the life of the project however, one of the key
indicators was revised in the 2012 restructuring. The indicator was modified from percent
of graduates finding initial employment within three months in the specialties in which
they were trained to percent of graduates finding initial employment within six months to
align with the government’s standard indicator of employment.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The PAD identified the three senior secondary and tertiary institutions in
Guangdong province that primarily served rural populations as the main beneficiaries of
the project. The three schools were Guangdong Light Industry Secondary and Tertiary
School (GLIS); Guangdong Urban Construction Secondary and Tertiary School (GUCS),
and Yangjiang Secondary and Tertiary Technical School (YTS). Students, faculty and
school administers were to be the primary beneficiaries within the three schools. In addition,
provincial HRSS bureau staff was to benefit from capacity development activities and
national level administrator’s capacity was to be strengthened through involvement in the
development of the policy studies supported by a grant from the “Trust Fund for Bank-
Korea Partnership on Poverty Reduction and Socio-Economic Development” (KTF).
Direct project beneficiaries having benefitted from project interventions reached
approximately 9,146 students who enrolled in CBT classes, of which 26.06 percent were
female. The project also benefitted teachers and school administrators, by supporting
training for 23,826 person times. This does not include the indirect beneficiaries such as
parents and decentralized ministry staff who benefitted from knowledge transfer and other
forms of capacity building.




1
  There is a slight difference in the loan agreement PDO which was “the objective of the project is to assist
Guangdong Province in improving the quality and relevance of technical education in selected schools and
using the experience as a guide to further school reforms and policy development”. The PDO in the PAD is
used for the purpose of this evaluation to assess project achievement because it was used in all the supervision
reports and is the official PDO as recorded in the Data Sheet.


                                                       3
1.5 Original Components

11.     Component 1. School-Based Reforms and Innovation (IBRD-US$19.73
million; Counterpart-US$24.65 million equivalent) 2 . This component was to: (i)
strengthen the linkage between schools and industry; (ii) improve school management; (iii)
introduce an updated modular, Competency-Based Training (CBT) curriculum; (iv) train
instructors to use the new curriculum; (v) improve student assessment and quality
assurance at the school level; and (vi) expand and upgrade facilities and equipment.

12.     Component 1 had the following sub-components: (i) sub-component 1.1:
strengthen the linkage between schools and industry aimed to strengthen and
institutionalize linkages between the schools and local industry to promote a more
efficient flow of information between the parties affecting the quality and relevance of
training offered; (ii) sub-component 1.2: improvement of school management was
designed to build capacity needed to ensure the effective use of school resources and
produce the learning outcomes needed by a market-led economy; (iii) sub-component
1.3: curriculum reform aimed to introduce a new CBT curriculum with competency
standards established by industry to promote improvements in quality and relevance; (iv)
sub-component 1.4: improvement of student assessment and quality assurance aimed to
improve quality by helping establish a competency-based benchmark for measuring
student and school performance; (v) sub-component 1.5: improvement of instructor quality
aimed to strengthen instructional capacity and improve the quality of student learning
assessments to highlight areas where instructor performance in the classroom and
workshop with the new CBT curricula could be improved and train instructors through
pre-service and in-service measures to use the competency- based curriculum; and (vi)
sub-component 1.6: upgrading of instructional equipment and facilities to improve
teaching facilities and equipment for CBT specialties in the three schools.

13.      Component 2. Policy Development and Capacity Building (IBRD-US$0.22
million; Counterpart-US$0.37 million equivalent and KTF grant-US$0.40 million3).
This component was to: (i) support policy research and knowledge sharing at the national
level, (ii) improve monitoring and evaluation, and (iii) enhance project management and
coordination.

14.     Component 2 had the following sub-components: (i) sub-component 2.1: policy
research and knowledge sharing that supported policy research for carrying out policy
studies on key issues in technical and vocational education and training, and learning from


2
  The overall project cost included a Bank Front-end fee of US$0.05 million and counterpart fund
contingencies in the amount of US$2.55 million.
3
  The KTF was secured to finance policy studies at the national level, as well as impact evaluations for three
provinces per the initial project design. The total amount was US$600,000. Once the decision was made to
prepare a separate project for Liaoning and Shandong, funds were allocated as follows: (i) US$300,000 for
NDRC to conduct three national policy studies, and (ii) US$100,000 for each province to conduct an impact
evaluation. Therefore, US$400,000 were managed through the Guangdong TVET project but for ease of
administrative purposes, the full amount of the KTF remained linked to this project.


                                                      4
the experience of implementing the project and disseminating such lessons learned; (ii)
sub-component 2.2: improvement of monitoring and evaluation by laying the
foundation for moving to evidence-based management and policy development; and
(iii) sub-component 2.3: enhancing project management and coordination aimed to
enhance capacity for project management and coordination by the provincial project
management office.

1.6 Revised Components

15.        The components were not revised over the life of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.      On July 31, 2012, the project restructuring was countersigned by the government
to: (i) modify the definition of a PDO level indicator; and (ii) to modify the baseline and
target for the redefined indicator. The indicator wording was changed from “percent of
graduates finding initial employment within three months in the specialties in which they
were trained” to “percent of graduates finding initial employment within six months”. The
modification was made to align the indicator with the national and provincial level
indicators that measure graduate initial employment within six months of finding a job
rather than the three month period. The 2009 baseline employment rate for the newly
defined indicator was revised to 86 percent and the target to 92 percent.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     Project preparation. In July 2006, the Chinese State Council approved the
proposals from Guangdong, Shandong and Liaoning provinces to borrow from the Bank
for a potential TVET operation. It was agreed that each province would borrow US$20
million for a combined loan of US$60 million. The government’s intention was to borrow
for all three provinces under one project. The provinces were chosen based on their
economically more advanced status, having stronger capacity and being able to serve as a
model to other provinces. Lastly, the project was intended to serve as a pilot and to explore
innovative approaches for reforming the current TVET system in China.

18.     With this in mind, preparation began in October 2006 with the National
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) inviting the three provinces to present
their preliminary project proposals. It became apparent that despite the provinces advanced
capacity, their proposals focused mainly on infrastructure activities and equipping model
schools rather than reviewing curricula and improving school management. In an effort to
broaden the provinces’ intervention focus and to bring together stakeholders from central,
provincial and school levels4, a workshop was organized in Singapore to share experience
and jointly discuss the potential project design. The workshop included presentations from


4
    Ministry of Finance, NDCR, Ministry of Education and Ministry of Labor and Social Security.

                                                     5
international TVET experts and visits to a number of Singaporean technical education
institutes and professional organizations. As a result, a consensus was reached on a
preliminary project design and objectives.

19.     The central authorities including NDRC and MOF decided to pilot a new
cooperation model of decentralizing the Bank loan from ministries to provincial
departments in the area of education. As a result, the project was to be prepared without a
central government component, and without a central government coordinating agency.
This was the first time such an approach was taken in the education sector in China and
was in response to the client’s decision to allow these more mature provinces to take the
lead in the development of the project. This project was also the first education project to
sign a project agreement directly with beneficiary provinces in China and to provide for
fund transfers directly to participating schools. However, the absence of a coordinating
agency among the three provinces slowed initial preparation activities as provinces
clarified how their project proposals could fit within the overall project design. The Bank
(with the support from other development partners, such as Korea and Singapore)
organized additional workshops and study tours, which helped guide the three provinces in
improving their respective proposals. Despite intensified support, progress remained
uneven, with Guangdong improving their proposal following the workshop while Liaoning
and Shandong were facing challenges due to weak provincial management offices (PMO)
and beneficiary school selection. In May 2008, the government agreed to allow Guangdong
to move ahead separately as a pilot operation and identified GLIS, GUCS and YTS. This
allowed the Bank team to provide much more focused support to Guangdong and the three
schools it had selected to be included in the project, so that appraisal could take place five
months later.

20.     Project preparation also benefitted from experiences made under the Australian-
supported “Chongqing Vocational Education and Training Project”, especially in terms of
introducing Competency-Based Training (CBT) to support the intended curriculum reform.
Specifically, the Australian-supported project provided lessons on the need to establish
school-industry linkages and set-up advisory/coordination committees with industry
participation to establish competency standards, support school management
improvements and teacher training. To support policy development aspects of the proposed
project at the national level and ensure knowledge gathering and dissemination could take
place, the Bank team secured US$600,000 from the KTF, of which US$400,000 were
allocated for this project. Lastly, project design was also informed by studies on TVET in
China, which highlight quality and relevance as the biggest challenges5.

21.     As mentioned earlier, the preparation team also ensured that project interventions
would represent (as requested by the client) a “public good” and would pilot innovative
approaches and gather evidence to help inform TVET school operation in other provinces.
To this end, the KTF grant was instrumental to earmark funding specifically for analytical
work and evidence gathering. At the request of the delegation during negotiations, the


5
 “Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in China”, Copenhagen Development
Consultants A/S, 2005.

                                              6
project also included a retroactive financing clause up to US$4 million to cover
expenditures incurred after April 1, 2009 mainly to cover teacher training expenditures and
which has allowed for activities to start as quickly as possible.

22.     Again, these experiences and lessons learned helped the teams prepare and appraise
the proposed project in five months once agreement was reached to allow Guangdong
proceed without the other two provinces. The Bank approved the loan on June 2, 2009 in
the amount of US$20 million and it became effective on October 8, 2009. Although the
KTF grant agreement was signed on June 2, 2010, the grant had already been incorporated
into the original design and was clearly identified in the component costing, making these
funds an integral part of the project from the beginning. Program preparation was
thoughtful, collaborative and technically sound and benefitted from a deliberative process
between the national and provincial offices in charge of finance, education, development
and reform, and labor and social security, and with the support of the Guangdong PMO.
This was a sizable undertaking and might have contributed to a longer-than-average
preparation period but proved crucial to ensure buy-in at all levels and a clear
understanding of the project. The Bank team was actively involved in facilitating
communication and helping the province in finalizing the design with the support of other
donor partners. The Bank preparation and appraisal teams consisted of technical experts
that were appropriate for the development of the project and included peer reviewers that
provided sound guidance on the project design.

23.      Project Design and Quality at Entry. The project design was fully aligned with
the government’s 11th Five-Year-Plan for 2006-2010, which included strengthening market
institutions through reforms that would enhance performance and accountability of TVET
institutions but also increase relevance of technical and vocational education. The project
was also viewed as aiding Guangdong in achieving its goal of becoming southern China’s
financial center and logistics hub by producing the skilled workers necessary to support
the growth of the new knowledge-based industries. The design recognized the pilot nature
of this project and purposefully included training opportunities for teachers and other key
staff at project schools to learn from other countries such as Singapore’s “teaching factory”
or Germany’s “dual-system” teaching process. This was highly relevant as it marked a shift
from the traditional TVET instruction methodology applied in China in the past and
strengthened the piloting of a new approach through this project. The project was also fully
aligned with the Bank’s 2006-2010 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). Specifically, the
project supported the CPS’ Pillar 5 improving public and market institutions, by improving
the performance and accountability of TVET institutions. The project also contributed to
Pillar 2 of the CPS reducing poverty, inequality, and social exclusion as the almost three
quarters of all enrollees in the three project schools were from rural areas and low-income
households. As mentioned previously, the program design took into consideration
comments from peer reviewers and donor partners provided during the concept and
appraisal review meetings.

24.    Overall responsibility of project implementation was delegated to the province
through the establishment of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to be led by the Director
General of the Guangdong Department of Human Resources and Social Security (DHRSS)

                                             7
(formerly Labor Bureau). The PSC included representatives of the provincial department
of finance (DOF) and development and reform commission (DRC) and was to serve as a
coordination body, provide substantive guidance on overall project implementation and
facilitate inter-agency coordination. The provincial PMO was in charge of the day-to-day
implementation and was to coordinate with the three project schools’ project
implementation units (PIU). DOF, which had experience with World Bank-financed
projects, was supporting the PMO in terms of fiduciary, auditing and monitoring of project
activities. This institutional set-up was appropriate given the pilot nature of project
interventions and the need for more flexibility with a bottom-up approach. To support the
shift of TVET instruction from a teacher-focused to a student-centered approach and the
strengthening of school-industry partnerships, the design included the establishment of
advisory committees. These committees were to be established at the school level to
facilitate communication with enterprises and seek their input for the development of
competency-based standards and teaching modules. The committees were also charged
with guiding teachers (who were identified as the main drivers of the school-based reform)
in the development of competency-based standards and teaching modules, which was a
new role for teachers. This proved highly relevant and was instrumental for the successful
implementation of the school-based reforms and CBT curriculum.

25.     The PDO was in line with the government’s priorities as expressed in the 11th Five-
Year Plan of improving quality and relevance of technical and vocational education
provision and was also reflective of the project’s activities. The results framework was
appropriate for measuring project progress: the PDO was measured by three key outcome
indicators, and eleven intermediate outcome indicators were selected to measure outcomes
of the project components. In addition to the outcome indicators, the design team selected
output indicators to be monitored and reported regularly. As previously mentioned, the
KTF was specifically secured to support knowledge generation and lessons learned, and to
help inform future policy decisions.

26.     Indicator formulation was guided by extensive consultations between the project
schools, the PMO and the Bank. Given that this was the first education project to be
prepared without a central coordination component, intensive technical assistance was
provided by the Bank team. This allowed the project team to agree on and finalize the
results framework in time for the Bank’s pre-appraisal mission in May 2008. The results
framework development was guided by the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) held on
September 15, 2008, which provided sound guidance to the team and allowed the project
to be appraised by October 2008. As mentioned above, the results framework was revised
in July 2012 following the mid-term review (MTR) to adjust the timeframe within which
graduates would find employment and be in line with the province’s own monitoring target.

27.    The project design was comprised of two main components that focused on school-
based reforms and innovation and policy development and capacity building. The project
included a baseline and follow on survey to measure the impact of the project’s
interventions through an Impact Evaluation (IE). The project also included a Beneficiary
Assessment (BA) to be conducted at mid-term and project closing and an Assessment
Report for Course Development (ARCD) in 2012. As mentioned previously, the design

                                            8
recognized the importance of teachers in carrying out the school-based reforms and
therefore put in place the necessary support structure (advisory committees, trainings at
TVET schools abroad and other provinces). Lastly, the preparation team identified project
risks and proposed adequate mitigation measures.

2.2 Implementation

28.     The project had a good start in regards to Component 1. Within the first year of
implementation, all three schools: (i) established School Industry Advisory Committees
and Specific Sector Advisory Committees; (ii) undertook extensive management and
teacher trainings through international, national and school-level exchanges; (iii)
developed new competency-based standards and curriculum packages; and (iv) introduced
new teaching methods focusing on student-centered pedagogy. Civil works and
procurement of equipment was also underway albeit slower than anticipated due to the
PMO and PIUs being unfamiliar with Bank procurement processes and issues related to
delays in mobilizing counterpart funds for one project school. Component 2 activities were
also progressing but slower than originally planned: Policy research and knowledge sharing
at the national level and improving monitoring and evaluation moved at a slower pace. This
was mainly due to the time it took to complete the signing of the KTF, which, in turn,
delayed the signing of contracts with the relevant research companies. Given that the KTF
was to finance national-level policy studies as well as impact evaluations in two additional
provinces (Liaoning and Shandong provinces), it took time to agree on the most appropriate
implementation arrangement. Once an agreement was reached between the different parties,
the grant agreement was signed. Despite the initial slow start, actual disbursements were
at US$2.7 million (approximately 14 percent) by September 2010 (15 months after
approval), or US$9.7 million (48.5 percent) when including commitments.

29.     By the 2012 MTR, however, most activities were either on track to achieve their
targets or had already exceeded them: (i) construction at GUCS and YTS was underway;
(ii) industrial experts were teaching at schools; (iii) more students benefitted from
internships in enterprises with which schools had established a cooperation; (iv) practice
spaces had been established, either on campus or at enterprises to further enhance students’
practical knowledge; (v) new assessment tools had been developed to evaluate student
learning and performance; (vi) intensive capacity building of teachers and school
administrators was being carried out; and (vii) activities related to the policy studies and
evaluation had been launched. In addition, the three schools had applied (and been
accepted) to participate in the MOHRSS’s research program to allow teachers to
summarize lessons learned in developing and implementing CBT and conduct research to
further inform CBT content and implementation. The MTR confirmed that the program
remained relevant, the PDO was still valid and achievable, and disbursements were at
approximately 50 percent of loan proceeds. As mentioned earlier, the MTR identified the
need to modify the wording of one PDO indicator and to adjust the baseline and end target
to accommodate the new definition, which were approved in the July 2012 restructuring.

30.    At mid-term, some challenges were also highlighted, namely: (i) GLIS construction
delays due to permit problems and lengthy approval processes, which slowed the

                                             9
acquisition of new equipment and led to crowded teaching spaces; (ii) slower-than-
anticipated roll out of reforms in all project schools due to capacity constraints of teachers
and administrators to develop new textbooks and learning material, and deliver the new
CBT courses; and (iii) the need to strengthen the role and involvement of school-industry
and industry-specific sector advisory committees to help increase enterprises’ awareness
of the benefits of CBT and increase their involvement in developing competency-based
courses. These findings were also reported in the BA and ARCD, which proved to be timely
and highly relevant to helping schools improve the quality and relevance of courses and
inform material development. Delays also continued to affect the production of the three
policy studies funded by the KTF, which were managed by the Social Development
Department of NDRC.

31.     However, the project was able to overcome these challenges and complete all
envisaged activities as designed and disburse 98 percent of combined loan and grant
proceeds. This was a substantial achievement given some of the initial delays, the newness
of the implementation arrangements and innovative nature of CBT implementation. When
the project closed, all intermediate indicators had been exceeded. In addition: (i) each
school had operational school-industry advisory bodies in place, established guidelines and
standard contract forms for school-industry partnerships, further strengthening school-
industry linkages; (ii) teachers and administrators benefitted from capacity strengthening
through a variety of trainings (school-based, domestic and international); (iii) CBT syllabi,
curriculum standards and textbooks had been developed, trialed and rolled out in all three
schools; (iv) all schools had significantly expanded training spaces for students to practice
their newly acquired skills; (v) MOHRSS used the results and lessons from the project to
inform the development of two national level guidelines related to TVET; and (vi) the
management information system (MIS) in each school was strengthened and is being used
to collect student tracking information. Project savings of approximately US$415,000
stemmed from fewer overseas training activities due to government travel regulations.
However, this did not undermine CBT capacity building of school staff as evidenced by
achievements made under the project, which are substantial.

32.     There were seven Bank review and implementation support missions from
December 2010 through December 2014, including one MTR and one final
implementation mission. The makeup of the Bank teams was consistently appropriate and
well balanced. Each team composition reflected the needs of the respective mission and
included specialists from the areas of education, financial management, procurement,
construction, environment, social, and monitoring and evaluation as necessary. There were
different team leaders (TTLs) involved during preparation and project launch, however,
the Beijing-based TTL was involved from the first full implementation mission until
project closing. This allowed for continuity during implementation and informal visits in-
between official missions. As a result, the Bank was able to provide the intensive technical
assistance required at the beginning of the project and quickly respond to issues and
challenges as they arose, further contributing to the project’s success.




                                             10
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.     Design. The M&E design was three-fold. First, the monitoring of the results
framework and project outputs, as well as process evaluations were to be done by the PMO.
As stated previously, the original results framework was appropriate for the project design
to measure achievement of the PDO. The intermediate indicators were linked to the
components and were appropriate to measure intermediate level achievements. The results
framework included 11 intermediate outcome indicators as well as output indicators.
Secondly, the project included the strengthening of school-level M&E mechanisms, such
as their MIS, student tracer systems, two beneficiary assessments and an ARCD. Finally,
the design included an IE aimed at assessing the impact of the curricula reforms on
improving the quality and relevance of technical and vocational education. This was the
first time such an independent evaluation was being proposed for a Bank-supported
education project in China and served as a learning experience for the PMO. As indicated
above, the results framework was reviewed during the MTR and adjusted through the 2012
restructuring. The M&E design was relevant for the overall design of the project and
appropriate for monitoring project impact.

34.     Implementation and Utilization. The PMO regularly provided Bank missions
with data and information that allowed teams to make judgments on progress toward
achieving the PDO and the project’s overall implementation. This information was
consistently reported on by the Bank in aide-memoires and Implementation Status and
Results (ISRs) reports. The PMO also monitored the project outputs, and schools used the
information to make the appropriate adjustments in their annual plans. As mentioned above,
the project conducted two BAs and an ARCD, which were available for the MTR, while
the PMO prepared an MTR progress report. These documents, especially the BA and
ARCD, provided useful suggestions on how to improve CBT which included: (i) deepening
school-industry cooperation to further align CBT with market demands; (ii) strengthening
the advisory committees so that they would become more active and better able to support
teachers during curriculum development; and (iii) improving schools’ marketing campaign
regarding the types of graduates and skills they produce to attract more enterprises. The
recommendations were acknowledged and incorporated in the school plans, which was
evidenced in the end-line BA and government completion report. (See Annex 2 for details
on outputs related to these recommendations.)

35.    All three schools’ monitoring systems were strengthened through the project and
all are able to collect and analyze student tracking data. Additional aspects of the
management systems were developed in each school, including education management
information, teacher quality assessment, course scheduling, student performance and
graduate employment tracking.6 Schools collect and analyze information related to school-
industry collaboration, teacher effectiveness and promotions, student performance and


6
 Because of the improved MIS systems, one school applied for funding from the “China Association of
Workers and Staff Education” to further analyze and assess its tracking system. The research is still ongoing
but it is expected that the results will be disseminated at the ministerial level and inform guidelines for system
development and standards.

                                                       11
number of industry experts teaching at schools. Results are being published online and
shared through “Weixin”, China’s version of “Twitter”.

36.     The IE was to be conducted by an independent firm, hired by the PMO. The
baseline study was carried out in 2010 but the approach had to be modified due to
constraints in finding comparable non-project schools. In the end, a simple “before and
after” analysis was proposed, and a second round of data collection was completed in 2014.
The province and schools learned valuable lessons with regard to how IEs are designed,
conducted, and data is analyzed7.

37.     These diverse ways of collecting, analyzing and documenting information has led
to changes at school, provincial and national levels as evidenced (amongst other things)
by: (i) institutionalization of school-industry cooperation, including standardized
agreements; (ii) use of project school CBT textbooks by the provincial education research
division to promote CBT development in other TVET schools as well as provincial school-
industry collaboration guidelines for Guangdong; and (iii) the issuance of two national
guidelines on April 6, 2013.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     Environment and social safeguards. The project was rated a Category “C”
operation, and an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was developed. The
project’s compliance was rated “satisfactory” throughout its life. In terms of
environmental safeguards, each project school worked with the PMO and representatives
from local environmental protection agencies to ensure compliance with the EMF and the
relevant environmental laws and regulations. At the time of the MTR, a number of
improvements were suggested such as timely removal of solid wastes, acceleration of
greening works and strengthening of noise and dust mitigation measures. As a result,
environmental requirements were added to bidding documents and contracts, payment
retention clauses were included, public consultation prior, during and after construction
were intensified and the local environmental monitoring agencies were entrusted to closely
monitor overall environmental safeguards compliance. This was routinely verified during
subsequent implementation support missions so that by project closing, the Bank’s
environmental safeguards specialist confirmed that civil works were completed in
compliance with the EMF and relevant environmental laws, and that all MTR suggestions
had been taken on board. No social safeguards policies were triggered but the project did
assess stakeholder satisfaction, which included students from poorer backgrounds (i.e.,
farmers and migrant workers), through the two BAs and the IE. Based on the end-line BA,
the majority of students felt that their basic learning needs had been met, the curriculum
was considered relevant and teachers’ capacity had increased.



7
 The IE clarified that: (i) the response rate was 46.5 percent for 2010 baseline survey and 45.5 percent in
2014; (ii) GUCS reported that all graduates participated in CBT and that data for comparison purposes was
not available; and (iii) continued changes and improvements to subject structure and content did not allow
for a simple “before-and-after” comparison as the variables had changed over the life of the project.

                                                    12
39.     Financial management. Financial management (FM) remained satisfactory
throughout the life of the project. During the initial stages of project implementation, the
project encountered the following challenges: (i) delays in civil works, which led to
disbursements lagging original projections; and (ii) confusion by project schools regarding
eligible expenditures for innovation activities. It should be noted that although a designated
account (DA) was established at the PMO level, each school had an operating account
(OA) from which innovation-related expenditures were paid. This was a new way of
operating and required each school to strengthen their fiduciary systems. With intensified
support from the Bank and PMO, the following was achieved: (i) aspects related to
innovation activity financing were clarified and relevant guidelines issued by early 2011;
(ii) school-level financial management capacity had increased and internal controls were
strengthened; and (iii) collaboration between different stakeholders, including provincial
departments of finance, DRC and MOF, and the PMO had been established, contributing
to smooth implementation and accurate record keeping. By mid-term, overall
disbursements had accelerated and remained largely on track until project closing,
especially once delayed construction of GLIS had gotten underway. Bank implementation
support missions consistently confirmed that the project had a satisfactory financial
management system in place, which produced timely and accurate information, and all
audits were unqualified.

40.     Procurement. Procurement was consistently rated satisfactory, except in January
2012 as the project experienced delays in civil works and innovation activity procurement.
As mentioned before, the new building at GLIS continued to face challenges, which were
due to government-related permit issues and the fact that certain “Asia Games” venues
were being held in Guangzhou in 2010. This meant that city officials were focused on
ensuring the necessary infrastructure was in place and ready in time for the games, delaying
all non-game related processes. Nevertheless, all procurement packages were completed
prior to project closing, including goods for the new GLIS building, and are in use. This
was partly due to the continued capacity building efforts shown by the Bank and PMO to
school procurement office staff and the establishment of a procurement management
manual. Also, quality assurance mechanisms were put in place by the PMO to review
procurement packages and annual implementation/procurement plans prepared by schools.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     Expanding CBT and school-industry cooperation continues to be promoted through
exchanges and workshops, the two national policy documents, the three national policy
studies and different provincial directives provide a strong foundation for expansion.
Furthermore, the Bank-supported Guangdong Social Security Integration and Rural
Worker Training project (SSIRWT), which was approved in May 2013, continues a
number of activities that were piloted under this project, including: (i) the development and
roll-out of CBT; and (ii) strengthening school-industry linkages. In fact, the GLIS was
selected to be part of the SSIRWT project as a lead school so that the other two participating
schools could benefit from GLIS’ experience acquired under this project. The SSIRWT
project is also being managed by the same PMO due to its proven management track record.
There also exist a number of TVET projects in China, which are financed by the Bank and

                                             13
which include the same components/activities, the latest operation having been approved
by the Bank’s Board of Directors in May 2015 for Xinjiang province.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.     Relevance of Objectives. The project development objectives were highly
relevant to the country’s sectoral needs when the project was developed. The objectives
fit squarely into the government’s 11th “Five-Year-Plan” for 2006-2010 and the aligned
2006-2010 CPS. They all shared a common vision of strengthening market institutions
through reforms that will enhance performance and accountability of TVET institutions
but also increase relevance of technical and vocational education. The project continued to
be aligned with the 2013-2016 CPS, which again is aligned with the country’s 12th Five-
Year-Plan, both focusing on promoting more inclusive development by strengthening skills
development programs. The objectives’ high relevance continues to be acknowledged by:
(i) the “China 2030: Building a Modern, Harmonious and Creative Society” study
conducted jointly by the Bank and the government, which proposes expanding
opportunities for all to access decent jobs, accelerate pace of innovation and increase
technical and cognitive skills of graduates; and (ii) the government’s “Development of
Modern Vocational Education Plan 2014-2020” and the “Medium to Long-term Education
and Talent Development Plans for 2010-2020”, proposing increased access, quality and
relevance improvement through stronger school-industry linkages, improved TVET
curricula and flexible transitions between secondary and vocational education. It should
also be noted that policy studies, financed by the KTF, have provided a good foundation in
the area of vocational education and training as the government prepares its 13th Five-Year-
Plan.

43.     Relevance of Design. As mentioned above, the project design was highly relevant.
The PDO was appropriate in its focus on quality and relevance of TVET education, and
the results framework, project components and activities were appropriate for measuring
achievement of the PDO. The 2012 restructuring ensured that the identified PDO level
indicator was more consistent with the national and provincial level indicator of tracking
employment of graduates after six months rather than three months, which was an
appropriate alignment. Moreover, the 20 percent allocation of the project funds for
technical assistance ensured adequate resources for teachers and administrators to develop
new curricula and focus on the paradigm shift from teacher-center to student-centered
teaching. The focus on strengthening the school information systems has improved their
ability to collect and analyze data, especially in terms of tracking student and teacher
performance, school-industry collaboration and curriculum reforms. The inclusion of the
KTF-financed policy studies, IE, BAs and ARCD was highly relevant and instrumental in
informing reforms at school, provincial and national levels. The project risks and
mitigation measures were also appropriate.

44.    Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of project implementation is also
judged to be high. As indicated above, the project schools and PMO were able to

                                            14
implement all project activities as planned. Where they encountered implementation
challenges, such as with financing eligibility criteria for innovation activities, they were
able to work with Bank staff to find solutions and resolve the issues. The lessons learned
are now being incorporated into the ongoing work of the DHRSS to further harmonize
TVET instruction in Guangdong and have also influenced policy discussions at the national
level. The high implementation relevance is also reflected in the fact that the SSIRWT
operation in Guangdong has adopted the same approach to implementing migrant worker
skills training, with the GLIS as the model for the other two project schools. In fact, the
government has drawn upon the implementation relevance of this project when it requested
Bank support for TVET projects in Liaoning and Shandong, Yunnan and Xinjiang. These
are positive developments and an indication of overall project relevance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

45.     The project development objective was to improve quality and relevance of
technical education in three schools and produce lessons from this experience as a guide to
future school reforms and policy development. This section evaluates the outcomes against
the PAD results framework that was adjusted in July 2012. More details on project outputs
can be found in Annex 2.

46.     It should also be noted that during the project period all three project schools were
upgrading within the context of China’s TVET system. There are a number of national and
provincial criteria that are used for determining the levels of TVET schools which included,
but are not limited to, teacher qualifications, curriculum development, number of m2 per
student, course specific equipment available for student use etc. During the project, YTS
was upgraded twice from an ordinary technical school to an advanced technical school and
ultimately to a technical college in December 2014. GLIS and GUCS were also upgraded,
from advanced technical schools to technician colleges. In the case of YTS, the school was
able to offer a higher level technician certification. In the case of GLIS and GUCS, the
schools were able to offer certification from MOHRSS and a diploma equivalent to an
associate’s degree. While there are many factors that may have contributed to the
upgrading of the schools, the project inputs of facilities, equipment, curriculum
development and teacher training made a significant contribution to the upgrading of the
schools. This is an important factor to consider when evaluating the achievement of the
PDO as well as the overall impact of the project.

47.     Quality improvement was to be measured by percent of graduates who pass skills
certification exams. There was considerable progress in this PDO level indicator. The
overall percentage of students that passed the skill certification exams increased from 70
percent in 2009 to 90.37 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of 88 percent. The impact
evaluation conducted showed that the proportions of secondary technical graduates of the
class of 2013 from YTS and GLIS, who received competency-based coursework and
passed skills examination for the first time at the time of graduation, were 96.8 percent and
96.6 percent respectively, both of which were higher than that of secondary technical




                                             15
graduates8 from such schools who did not receive competency-based coursework (92.9
percent and 87.2 percent respectively).9

48.      Relevance was to be measured by: (i) gains in the percentage of graduates finding
initial employment within 6 months; and (ii) starting salary of graduates (graduates with
competency-based curricula versus trainees without this curricula). The overall percentage
of graduates from the project schools finding employment within six months increased
from 86 percent in 2009 to 98.51 percent in 2014, exceeding the target of 95 percent. In
addition to the PDO indicators, the impact evaluation showed that the relevance between
jobs and majors10 with respect to college technical graduates in 2013 from project schools
was 59 percent compared to 48 percent in of 2010, while the relevance between jobs and
majors with respect to secondary technical graduates in 2013 was 46 percent compared to
45 percent in 2010.

49.    The data reported for starting salaries was the average starting salaries for all
graduates in the three schools. This data shows an increase from RMB 1,744 in 2009 to
RMB 2,625 in 2014.11 However, the impact evaluation provided an analysis of salaries for
GLIS and YTS12 based on graduates that participated in the competency-based courses
compared to the non-competency based courses. The impact evaluation results showed that
2013 college technical graduates participating in CBT courses from GLIS received RMB
3,149 while non-CBT received RMB 3,302; and from YTS the CTB graduates received
RMB 2,744 and non-CBT received RMB 2,383. With respect to secondary technical
graduates, GLIS CBT graduates received RMB 3,681 and non-CBT RMB 3,099 and YTS
CBT graduates received RMB 2,751 and non-CBT received RMB 2,565. All data provided
exceeds the 2014 results framework target of RMB 1,18713.

50.     Produce lessons from this experience as a guide to future school reforms and
policy development was to be measured by the intermediate outcome indicator “number
of key policy studies disseminated”. There were substantial achievements related to this
indicator. At the national level, and with support from the KTF, the Social Development
Department of NDRC produced three policy studies in the areas of: (i) financing of TVET


8
  The three project schools can provide two kind of programs: secondary level program and college level
program. The secondary technical graduates are the graduates of the secondary program.
9
   The secondary technical graduates is the appropriate comparison because YTS did not have college
technical program before implementation.
10
   Relevance between jobs and majors is defined as: graduates who are "employed full-time" and includes
two categories: firstly, those engaged in full-time employment relevant to their majors; secondly, those
engaged in full-time employment not relevant to their majors. Major relevancy = number of graduates
engaged in full-time employment relevant to majors/number of graduates engaged in full-time employment
(including those relevant not relevant and not relevant to majors.
11
   The salary calculations are adjusted for inflation and do not include pension, medical insurance and public
housing fund.
12
   GUCS claimed all graduates participated in CBT courses so there are is no non-pilot program data for this
school available to make the comparison.
13
   Note that these figures differ from Figure 3 in Annex 3 due to the fact that Figure 3 reports on starting
salaries of secondary technical and college technical graduates combined for comparison purposes with other
sectors and provincial average.

                                                     16
education; (ii) quality improvement of the TVET system particularly as it relates to
curriculum development and school-industry collaboration, and (iii) long-term governance
structure. These policy studies provided a good foundation for the preparation work for the
13th Five-Year-Plan in the area of vocational education and training. The results of the
policy studies have been disseminated to other provinces, which is expected to also
facilitate the preparation of the provincial level 13th Five-Year-Plans. Moreover, MOHRSS
used the results and lessons from the project to inform the development of two national
level guidelines related to TVET. These guidelines are: (i) “Guideline for the Development
of National Training Standard for High-skilled Talents”; and (ii) “Technical Specifications
for the Development of Integrated Curriculum”. Finally, TVET experts in China indicated
that the three policy studies are expected to also inform revisions to China’s Vocational
Education Law.

51.     At the provincial level, the Provincial Department of Human Resource and Social
Security issued guidelines that were informed by the project entitled “Suggestions on
Strongly Promote the Connotation Development of Technical Education in Guangdong”
in November 2014, which include project schools’ experiences and recommendations
related to competency-based curriculum development and implementation. The
Guangdong PMO worked with project schools and the Provincial Department of Human
Resource and Social Security to produce a collection of the competency-based curriculum
reform outcomes and published the “Distinguished Papers on World Bank Loan:
Guangdong Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project (2009-2014) (ISBN
978-5100-5567-6) which included 35 papers. At the school level there were many activities
related to policy research and knowledge sharing that included essays, survey reports,
textbook development and training plans.

3.3 Efficiency

52.     Overall, the evidence suggests that wages improved for graduates at both the
secondary and college levels. In particular, wages after six months of graduation for
secondary level graduates who took CBT courses were between 7 and 18 percent higher
than those for graduates who took non-CBT courses (depending on the school). Although
wages for college graduates at GLIS were four percent lower, their employment rates were
higher than for GLIS students who did not take part in CBT courses.

53.      The evidence also points to different impacts for college graduates than for
secondary graduates. In GLIS and YTS, college graduates of CBT courses had higher
employment rates than others. While for secondary graduates, there was either no impact
or a slight decline (depending on the school).

54.     Variation across project schools in terms of outcomes could be explained by the
fact that in some schools, roll out of reforms may have been slower than anticipated. This
may have been due to capacity constraints of teachers and administrators to develop new
textbooks and learning materials, and a lag time inherent in learning how to deliver the new
CBT courses as explained above. Based on this, efficiency is rated substantial.



                                            17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

55.     The overall outcome rating of the project is satisfactory. The relevance of design
was high. The design focused on the government’s priorities in the 11th Five-Year Plan
that focused on improving quality and relevance of technical and vocational education
provision and was also reflective of the shift in TVET instruction from a teacher-focused
to a student-centered approach. The relevance of implementation was high. While there
were challenges during implementation, the PMO and project schools, working with the
Bank team, made necessary adjustments to successfully complete the activities and draw
lessons for future interventions. Efficacy is rated satisfactory because the PDO was
achieved as measured by the achievement of the PDO indicators. Finally, the program was
implemented efficiently.

Table 1. Project Rating
 Original Project – 10/8/2009 – 7/31/ 2012 – 59.4 percent disbursement-net project funds1
 Project Relevance Achievement of PDO                  Efficiency      Overall Rating
                       (Efficacy)
 High                  Satisfactory                    Substantial     Satisfactory
 Original Project – 8/1/2012 – 12/31/2014 – 38.6 percent disbursement-net project funds1
 Project Relevance Achievement of PDO                  Efficiency      Overall Rating
                       (Efficacy)
 High                  Satisfactory                    Substantial     Satisfactory
 Overall Project Ratings – 98 percent disbursement of total loan as of 12/31/20142
 Project Relevance Achievement of PDO                  Efficiency      Overall Rating
                       (Efficacy)
 High                  Satisfactory                    Substantial     Satisfactory2
1
    The net amount for the total project is US$19.99 million.
2
    Overall rating = (5)(.594) +(5)(.386) = 4.9

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

56.     The project was to contribute to reducing poverty and inequality. During the project
period, the occupational categories of families of graduates changed substantially. From
2010 to 2013, the advanced technical graduates from farmer and migrant worker families
increased from 38 to 52 percent while the intermediate technical graduates increased from
42 to 50 percent. The increase in graduates from farmer and migrant worker families along
with an increase in wages for graduates of the three schools implies the project made a
contribution in these areas within the project schools, for the graduates and Guangdong
province. (See Annex 3 for the wage analysis.)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional change and strengthening is covered throughout the document.


                                                       18
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not Applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

See Annex 5 for details.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

57.     There were three issues identified as risks during the original project preparation
with an overall rating of moderate. The ratings were primarily related to: (i) over-emphasis
on upgrading technology and infrastructure at the school level without due attention to
CBT curriculum reforms; (ii) technical capacity to implement and manage the CBT
curriculum; and (iii) willingness of teachers and students to adopt the new CBT approach.
The mitigation measures incorporated in the project: (i) tied the provision of buildings and
equipment to the CBT curriculum reforms; (ii) frontloaded targeted TA and training for the
reform; and (iii) linked school-based innovation with the policy studies, which was
appropriate and ultimately responsible for ensuring smooth project implementation. The
risks associated with financial management were identified as a moderate risk. Going
forward, the financial management risk is likely to be low given the capacity development
training provided by the project at the provincial and school level. The overall risks for
maintaining the TVET and CBT reforms should be low given the government’s continued
focus on competency-based skills for workers and the expansion of similar projects in other
provinces in China (i.e., Shandong, Liaoning, Yunnan and Xinjiang). In Guangdong
specifically, the risk should be low as well due to the continuation of many of the project
activities in the new Bank-supported SSIRWT project and the willingness exhibited by
project schools to expand the CBT courses beyond the original majors. All of these factors,
along with the increased capacity within the provincial education bureau to implement
TVET projects, future risks should be low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

58.    The project preparation team ensured that the project design was closely aligned
with the 11th Five-Year-Plan and the 2006-2010 CPS. The design: (i) was appropriate to
address the challenges identified by the province and project schools; (ii) included a PDO
that was pertinent; and (iii) identified key indicators that were relevant to measure progress
towards achieving project objectives. The design took into consideration the
recommendations of the QER, comments from peer reviewers and lessons learned from
other Bank and donor-supported projects. The inclusion of the retroactive financing clause
was appropriate to ensure a quick project implementation start-up and continued ownership

                                             19
of the project. The preparation team identified the appropriate risks and incorporated design
features to mitigate them and included the relevant technical specialists to support project
development. In the absence of a central coordinating agency, the Bank team provided
intensive and continuous support, which was critical especially for project schools: as they
faced challenges in preparing their respective project proposals, the Bank team’s support
helped ensure that proposals were relevant and fit within government priorities. Emphasis
was also placed on the project being innovative and producing lessons learned through the
inclusion of different assessments and evaluations. The Bank team also helped organize
various workshops, trainings and study tours, which were instrumental for the finalization
of the design, content, and implementation arrangements of the project. Based on this, the
quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

59.     As stated previously, there were seven Bank review and implementation support
missions including a MTR and final implementation mission. The Bank was actively
engaged in supporting the PMO and project schools in their efforts to implement the project.
The in-country presence of the task team leader allowed for continued interactions between
the PMO, project schools, and the Bank through informal meetings and exchanges in
addition to official implementation support missions. The provincial departments as well
as school directors repeatedly mentioned the country-based TTL as having been
instrumental in facilitating early identification of potential bottlenecks and mobilizing the
necessary technical expertise to resolve them. The mobilization of additional technical
expertise was particularly pertinent for the development of the three national policy studies
and review of CBT curricula. In addition to the task team leader, the in-country presence
of the fiduciary and safeguards team members further enhanced the Bank’s ability to
promptly respond to client requests and resolve challenges (i.e., helped clarify eligibility
criteria for innovation activities, organized financial management and procurement
workshops as well as provided on-the-job training, ensured safeguards were being
complied with etc.).The Bank worked actively with the government to ensure that the
results framework was revised to ensure its alignment with provincial targets. Whenever
implementation challenges arose, the Bank team worked with the clients to find solutions
that would not compromise the integrity of the design. The Bank team supported schools
in expanding research, knowledge gathering and sharing beyond what was originally
envisaged, which was instrumental in informing provincial and national policy dialogue.
The implementation support teams also consistently reported on financial management and
procurement progress during missions and worked with the PMO and project schools to
build their capacity in these areas. As already indicated, they also systematically
documented project progress in aide-memoires, back-to-office reports and ISRs, all of
which kept Bank management informed of progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

60.    Based on the analysis above, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

                                             20
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     At the time of preparation, the government was fully committed to the project.
Although initially proposing to combine Guangdong, Shandong and Liaoning provinces
under this project, the decision was made to allow Guangdong province to move ahead
separately because their proposal was more advanced. This helped to accelerate final
project preparation, appraisal and approval. Government representatives actively
participated during the initial stages of project identification and design and supported the
knowledge exchanges and study tours. The three national policy studies were carried out
in a timely manner and findings have been disseminated to inform future policy discussions.
As mentioned previously, the government has embraced the essentials of competency-
based skills development as the mode of instruction in TVET schools across China, using
the experiences and materials produced by this project as a model to guide other provinces.
All relevant central and provincial actors remained actively engaged throughout the life of
the project and continuously strengthened their collaboration to facilitate project
implementation. Lastly, lessons learned from monitoring and evaluation activities have
been used to inform the development of competency-based skills programs in other
provinces.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The PMO was responsible for coordinating all aspects of implementation in close
collaboration with project schools. When faced with implementation challenges, the PMO
and schools were able to work effectively with the other provincial departments and the
Bank to resolve them. The PMO was also instrumental in ensuring training was being
provided, supporting materials produced to facilitate implementation at the school level
(i.e., manual clarifying innovation expense eligibility) and information collected for
monitoring and reporting purposes. The PMO supported project schools to explore
innovative ways to develop and roll-out CBT, and schools showed strong commitment to
implement the proposed reforms by: (i) going beyond the initial target of majors being
taught through CBT; (ii) collecting their experiences and best-practices on the development
of CBT, which has been compiled into a book and made publicly available as a resource
guide; and (iii) remaining flexible in the way they developed and implemented CBT as
well as developing school-industry partnerships according to each school’s characteristics.
These are substantial achievements and show the increased capacity of the province and
schools. This is further supported by the fact that the PMO has been chosen to support the
implementation of the SSIRWT project, and the inclusion of the GLIS as a model school.
The project’s financial management was consistently rated satisfactory. As mentioned
above, procurement was also rated satisfactory throughout the life of the project except in
December 2011 when the project experienced delays in civil works and procurement of
innovation activities. However, these challenges were quickly addressed and the
procurement rating was upgraded again to satisfactory by May 2012. Based on these
aspects, the implementation agency performance is rated satisfactory.

                                            21
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

63.    Based on the above assessment, overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

64.    Successful policy development and reforms should be linked to school-based
innovation and reforms. The documentation and dissemination of project school
experiences in developing new curricula and student-centered teaching methods were
studied and reviewed at the provincial and national levels. Lessons learned from these
experiences have been used to inform the development of TVET guidelines at both the
provincial and national levels. In addition, some of the project experience is being used to
inform the skills training approaches in the government’s next Five-Year-Plan.

65.     Awareness raising of all stakeholders is critical when introducing new reforms.
The project supported the development of school marketing plans to promote the new
method of skills training being piloted under the project. The marketing plans had a
substantial impact in developing school-industry connection related to curriculum
development, industry lecturers and increased provision of in-service training requested by
industries.

66.     Connecting provision of training, buildings, and equipment to progress in
developing new curriculum ensures focus on reforms. The project frontloaded technical
assistance and training to quickly build capacity of teachers to develop the new curricula
and then tied the provision of buildings and equipment to the new courses that were
developed. This design moved the focus of the schools away from an initial emphasis on
upgrading facilities and equipment toward the reforms efforts envisioned and agreed to in
the project design.

67.    Exposure of relevant stakeholders to international best-practice can facilitate
the development and implementation of a reform. School administrators and teachers
repeatedly cited that study tours to countries with experience in CBT and student-centered
learning was instrumental in increasing their ability to implement the curriculum reform
outlined in the project design. Teachers and school administrators were the main actors in
developing and implementing new curricula. Therefore, exposure to the new concepts and
learning from other countries was important for carrying the reforms forward within their
schools.

68.     Strong coordination between project schools and sharing of experiences can
lead to strong ownership. Schools routinely shared experiences amongst each other,
encouraging more teachers to participate in CBT and increasing their commitment to and
interest in the reform process. Sharing of experiences with non-project schools also raised
their interest in developing and applying CBT beyond Guangdong province. This has
proven to be an effective mechanism to raise awareness and interest in introducing school
reforms and using a CBT-type approach.

                                            22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower and implementing agencies confirmed that they do not have any comments.
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                           23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
         Components                                        Estimate
                                    (US$ millions)                              Appraisal
                                                         (US$ millions)
Component 1: School-based
                                          19.73                19.35              98.00
reforms and innovation
Component 2: Policy
development and capacity                   0.62                 0.59              95.20
building
          Total Baseline Cost             20.35                19.94              97.99
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.00                 0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                           0.00                 0.00              0.00
            Total Project Costs           20.35                19.94              97.99
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.05                 0.05               100
    Total Financing Required              20.40                19.99              98.00

(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                    Type of                                     Percentage of
       Source of Funds                              Estimate       Estimate
                                  Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                  (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
KOREA, Rep of: Economic
                                                       0.40            0.37          92.50
Development Cooperation Fund
International Bank for
                                                      20.00            19.62         98.10
Reconstruction and Development




                                             24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

69.    Initial progress towards achieving project outcome and meeting output targets was
measured by three PDO indicators and 11 intermediate indicators. This annex uses the
combined indicators as listed in the revised results framework to assess output
achievements.

70.      Component 1: School –Based Reforms and Innovation (IBRD-US$19.73
million; Counterpart-US$22.10 million equivalent). The aim of this component was to
introduce reforms addressing issues of inadequate instructional space, a disconnect of
current training programs with competencies sought by local industries, a need for more
efficient use of public resources at the school level, weak instructional capacity, and a need
for improved student assessment and quality assurance in three selected institutions: (i)
Guangdong Light Industry Technician School (GLIS); (ii) Guangdong Urban Construction
Advanced Technician School (GUCS) and (iii) Yangjiang Advanced Technician School
(YTS). The six operational areas were: (i) strengthen the linkage between schools and
industry; (ii) improve school management; (iii) introduce an updated modular,
competency-based curriculum; (iv) train instructors to use the new curriculum; (v) improve
student assessment and quality assurance at the school level; and (vi) expand and upgrade
facilities and equipment.

71.    The intermediate outcome indicators selected to measure strengthen linkage with
industry were: (i) percent of instructors trained in industry attachments, which increased
from 10 percent in 2009 to 71.79 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of 50 percent; (ii)
percent of industrial experts from enterprises that participated in teaching in schools, which
increased from 2 percent in 2009 to 26.28 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of 12
percent; and (iii) percent of students that participated in internship programs, which
increased from 42 percent in 2009 to 88.2 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of 85
percent. These are all substantial achievements for the project.

72.     The three project schools initially identified 17 total occupational programs for
which to develop the modular, competency-based curricula—GLIS-7; GUCS-5 and YTS-
5. By the end of the project, the schools had successfully developed curriculum standards,
professional standards, and course materials (including textbooks) for all 17 occupation
programs. In addition, GLIS had added four more occupational programs to their list of
competency-based programs for a total of 21 by project closing.

73.     Sub-component 1.1: Strengthen the linkage between schools and industry
(IBRD-US$0.79 million; Counterpart-US$0.13 million equivalent). This sub-
component was designed to strengthen and institutionalize linkages between schools and
local industry to promote a more efficient flow of information through: (i) establishing and
strengthening school-industry advisory bodies; (ii) developing standard industry
cooperation agreements; (iii) engaging industry representatives in technical advisory
committees to set competency standards, develop and adapt new curricula, validate testing
and certification systems, and promote sharing of industry equipment and skilled personnel


                                             25
with schools; and (iv) preparing publicity and marketing materials for schools. Outputs
from this sub-component are as follows:

74.     Number of school-industry advisory bodies established. During project
implementation GLIS established three advisory bodies; GUCS established six, and YTS
established five. The requirement for the advisory bodies was that 50 percent of the
members be from industry in order to ensure adequate industry representation and program
relevance to the market needs. These advisory bodies provide schools with guidance on:
(i) establishing and/or improving industry collaboration; (ii) developing guidelines for
school-industry partnerships; (iii) developing contracts and agreements for school-industry
collaboration; and (iv) setting competency standards and developing and adopting new
curricula for occupational the selected occupational areas.

75.    Number of reports of proposals submitted by the school-industry advisory
boards. The number of reports or proposals submitted by the advisory bodies is as follows:
GLIS-8; GUCS-16 and YTS-4. These reports and proposals represent the teaching plan
proposals for courses that were developed, reviewed and approved by the advisory boards
with representatives from industry. The proposals were not approved unless they were
judged by the boards to have relevance to the various industries, which ensured continued
relevance of the courses and programs being offered by the three schools.

76.     Number of completed guidelines for school-industry partnerships. During the
project period, there were a total of five guidelines developed for school-industry
partnerships. They included obligations for schools and participating enterprises to provide
adequate training spaces, promote enrollment into CBT courses to ensure sufficient student
participation, ensure student safety and well-being and provision of equipment by
enterprises, wherever possible. The project design also included the requirement for
schools to develop standard industry cooperation agreements (including for requested
training) so as to ensure a formal understanding of requirements and responsibilities of the
school and industry relationships. Over the life of the project, the three schools signed a
total of 280 school-industry cooperation agreements based on the needs for specialty
development--GLIS signed 82, GUCS signed 102 and YTS signed 96 agreements.

77.    Number of marketing packages prepared. The project schools prepared
marketing packages to promote their schools for both pre-service and in-service training
for enterprises. Over the life of the project a total of 38 marketing packages were
development—GLIS-15 packages, GUCS-16 and YTS-8.

78.     Number of expert and industry technical committees established. The project
was to develop industry committees so as to: (i) engage industry representatives and other
technical specialists in the establishment of competency standards; (ii) adapt new curricula;
(iii) validate testing and certification systems; and (iv) promote sharing of industry
equipment and personnel with schools. During the project period, a total of 39 committees
were established—GLIS-15; GUCS-15 and YTS-8. See Table 2 for additional cooperation.




                                             26
79.    Development and completion of uniform contract templates. During the project
period at total of 16 uniform contract templates were developed, covering (among other
things) aspects of contract duration, types of possible collaborations, negative list of
collaboration projects based on their risks, potential negative environmental impacts and
arrangements for collaboration evaluations.

Table 2. Additional School-industry Cooperation
    Cooperation Activity                                            GLIS             GUCS          YTS
    Number of industry representatives                               135              78           103
    participating in technical committees
    Number of industry instructor employed by                        135               78          103
    project schools
    Percentage of school faculty sent to industries                  49.6             45.2         25.2
    for training
    Joint practical training facilities created                       82               55           35
1
  Dual class is one of the school-industry partnership models. Students enrolled in dual classes have double
identities; that is, students of TVET institutes and employees for the enterprises.

80.     Sub-component 1.2: Improvement in School Management (IBRD-US$0.99
million; Counterpart-US$0.26 million equivalent). This sub-component was to build
capacity to ensure the effective use of school resources and production of the learning
outcomes needed by a market-led economy through: (i) foreign and domestic study tours;
and (ii) provision of long-term and short-term training for school administrators and lead
instructors.

81.     The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure improved management
capacity was percent of school annual performance goals met which was defined as
“percent of school annual plans finished”. During the project period, the percent of annual
plans finished increased from 70 percent in 2009 to 96 percent in 2014, exceeding the target
of 90 percent. The outputs for this sub-component were:

82.    Number of people (managers and staff) trained. During the project period, a
large number of school administrators and project school teachers were trained overseas
and domestically. See Table 3 for the numbers trained.

Table 3. Summary of Trainee Numbers at Project Schools
    School                   Overseas              Domestic                Campus                 Total
                             Training1             Training2              Training2              Person
                           (person times)        (person times)         (person times)           Times
    GLIS                        121                   893                   1,866                 2,880
    GUCS                        101                  2,099                  7,871                10,071
    YTS                          98                  1,475                  9,302                10,875
1
    Person times for overseas training general refers to one person trained one time overseas.
2
    Person times for domestic training can be one person trained several times.




                                                        27
83.     These training activities contributed to increased understanding of how to develop
and teach the competency based curricula as well as improved management of the schools.
The improved understanding and acceptance of the competency-based curricula led to the
successful development of competency-based curricula for the 21 majors identified for
project support. Moreover, the improved management capacity led to improved campus
management. This was especially true in the case of information technology. School
information systems included one card pass for campus management, multi-media resource
databases for teaching resources, computer software for development, teaching and
evaluation of CBT curricula as well as information platforms for training and employment,
school-industry collaboration, online examinations, and graduate tracking systems.

84.      Sub-component 1.3: Curriculum Reform (IBRD-US$0.64 million;
Counterpart US$0.28 million equivalent). This sub-component was to introduce a
competency-based training curriculum with competency standards established by industry
to promote improvements in quality and relevance through: (i) acquisition and/or
development of modular CBT curriculum; (ii) acquisition of instructional materials; and
(iii) revision of testing and certification instruments with priority given to skills in high
demand as determined from consultations with industry.

85.     The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure developed and introduced
modular, competency-based curricula and instructional material was “percent of students
enrolled in modular CBT curricula (number of students enrolled in modular CBT
curricula/total students enrolled in the same specialties)”. During the project period, the
percent of students increased from 0 percent in 2009 to 81.66 percent in 2014 exceeding
the target of 60 percent. The outputs for this sub-component were:

Table 4. Output of Competency-Based Curriculum Reform
  Schools     Curriculum Plan       Curriculum         School-based          Published
                                     Standards          Textbooks            Textbooks
  GLIS                23                162                100                   6
  GUCS                 4                 64                 36                  10
  YTS                  5                 57                 35                   1
  Total               32                283                171                  17

86.      Sub-Component 1.4: Improvement in Student Assessment and Quality
Assurance (IBRD-US$0.16 million; Counterpart-US$0.05 million equivalent). This
sub-component was to improve quality by helping establish a competency-based
benchmark for measuring student and school performance by providing goods and services
to: (i) realign the student assessment system to the new CBT curriculum; and (ii) develop
instruments for reporting to the public about aggregate student performance on competency
exams as an indicator of school quality.

87.    The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure improved assessment and
quality assurance was “percent of students assessed with outcome-based student
assessment system (number of students assessed with outcomes-based student assessment
systems/total students studying in the same specialties)”. During the project period, the

                                             28
percent of students increased from 0 percent in 2009 to 83.1 percent in 2014 exceeding the
target of 70 percent. The specific output indicator selected to measure improved student
assessment and quality assurance was “number of specialties utilizing CBT curricula”. By
the end of the project there were a total of 28 specialties that were using CBT curricula—
GLIS-14; GUCS-11, and YTS-3.

88.      The 2014 impact evaluation, conducted by the MyCos Company, also found that
11 majors in the three schools were using a CBT assessment to evaluate their students
(GLIS-6; GUCS-2 and YTS-3). This assessment includes: (i) self-assessments; (ii) peer-
to-peer evaluation for both students and teachers; (iii) evaluation for each course unit; (iv)
industry representative assessment of students; and (v) publication of student assessment
results. The publication of student assessments are done on a daily and/or weekly basis so
that they can know how and where to improve their performance. This is a substantial
change from the original practice of assessing students once at the end of the semester.

89.     Sub-Component 1.5: Improvement in Instructor Quality (IBRD-US$1.54
million; Counterpart-US$0.57 million equivalent). This sub-component was designed
to strengthen instruction capacity and the quality of training by: (i) carrying out pre-and
post-assessment of instructor performance with the CBT curricula; and (ii) train instructors
through pre-service and in-service measures to use the competency-based curriculum.

90.     The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure improved quality of
instruction was “percent of instructors using new CBT curricula (number of instructors
using new CBT curricula (for a minimum of 20 hours)/total instructors in the same
specialty)”. The percent of instructors using the CBT curricula increased from 0 percent in
2009 to 75.29 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of 70 percent. The total number of
instructors trained with CBT curricula was: GLIS-549, GUCS-686 and YTS-384. The
overall percentage of teachers able to teach the CBT curriculum at GLIS, GUCS and YTS
is 50, 68 and 62 percent respectively. The training of instructors in the CBT curriculum has
transformed instruction from teacher-centered to student-centered at all three schools and
each of the schools continues to expand this approach through thematic workshops, training
sessions and lectures,

91.    Sub-Component 1.6: Upgrading of Instructional Equipment and Facilities
(IBRD-US$15.61 million; Counterpart-US$20.81 million equivalent). This sub-
component was designed to expand instructional facilities where there was evidence of
market demand determined in consultation with industry. The expansion included civil
works, equipment and technical assistance to: (i) upgrade and expand teaching facilities
and related infrastructure; and (ii) equip facilities to conform to the needs of the new
modular CBT curricula.

92.     The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure upgraded instructional
equipment, facilities and technology was “percent of students utilizing upgraded
instructional technology aligned with new CBT curricula (students utilizing upgraded
instructional technology/total students studying in the same specialties)”. The percent of
students increased from 0 percent in 2009 to 71.97 percent in 2014 exceeding the target of

                                             29
70 percent. The specific output indicators selected are: (i) number of specialties equipped
with CBT related equipment; and (ii) number of student places for skill training or
learning/number of new enrollments. The number of specialties equipment with CBT
equipment were: GLIS-5; GUCS-18, and YTS-8.

93.      In addition to the indicators, the project supported the procurement of IT equipment
and specialty-specific equipment at all schools as well as the construction of school
facilities (see Table 5 for details). An important aspect of the project support for upgrading
of facilities at all three schools was the contribution to increasing the schools overall
standards. This ultimately led to the reclassification/upgrading of the three schools.

Table 5. List of Project Construction
  School    Construction Project                         Financing      Net additional m2

  GLIS      Practical Training Building (Bank            Bank                      13,850.0
            financing)
  GUCS      Practical Training Building (Bank            Bank                      21,501.3
  YTS       13-Story Instructional Complex               Bank                      12,500.0
  YTS       4 practical training buildings               Counterpart               10,000.0
            (counterpart)
  YTS       1 dining hall                                counterpart                3,000.0
  YTS       6 student dormitories                        counterpart               20,000.0
  Total                                                                             60,851.3

94.    Component 2: Policy Development and Capacity Building (IBRD-US$0.22
million; Counterpart-US$0.37 million equivalent; KTF Grant-US$0.40 million
equivalent). The objectives of this component were to contribute to the national and
provincial policy development and building of a learning culture to guide future school
management and policy decision making by focusing on policy studies and on monitoring
and evaluation that supported a greater reliance on evidence based decision making in
school management and policy development. The component: (i) supported policy research
and knowledge sharing at the national level; (ii) improvement in monitoring and
evaluation; and (iii) supported capacity building for planning and management.

95.     Sub-component 2.1: Policy Research and Knowledge Sharing (IBRD-US$0.0
million; Counterpart-US$0.06 million equivalent; KTF US$0.30 million equivalent).
This sub-component provided financing to support: (i) policy studies on key issues in
technical and vocation education and training; and (ii) learning from the experience of
implementing the project and disseminating lessons learned and the results of the policy
studies. Central government agencies played a lead role in policy development with support
from the KTF through research and development of a series of policy studies. These studies
were to assist in formulating better policies for equipping workers with skills for a growing
knowledge based economy. Dissemination of the results of these studies together with
dissemination by Guangdong province of the project lessons formed the basis of policy
research involving TVET.


                                             30
96.    The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure progress of this sub-
component was “number of key policy studies disseminated”. This indicator was achieved
as evidenced by the discussion below.

97.      At the national level and with support from the Korean grant, the Social
Development Department of NDRC produced three policy studies in the areas of: (i)
financing of TVET education; (ii) quality improvement of the TVET system particularly
as it relates to curriculum development and school-industry collaboration, and (iii) long-
term governance structure. During the preparation of the policy studies, NDRC conducted
a study tour to Europe to learn from other experiences, facilitated revision of research
reports from three consulting firms, and held a completion workshop in December 2014 in
Shanghai. During the workshop, the three revised policy reports were reviewed by the
TVET experts in China and concluded that the research would be used in the revision of
China’s Vocational Education Law. In addition, the NDRC indicated that the policy studies
provided a good foundation for their preparation work for the 13th Five Year Plan in the
area of vocational education and training. The Social Development Department of NDRC
also invited DRC officials from 15 provinces to join this workshop. The results of the
policy studies have been disseminated to other provinces, which are expected to also
facilitate the preparation of their provincial level 13th Five Year Plan.

98.     In addition to the policy research by NDRC, the MOHRSS used the results and
lessons from the project to inform the development of two national level guidelines related
to TVET. These guidelines are: (i) “Guideline for the Development of National Training
Standard for High-skilled Talents”; and (ii) “Technical Specifications for the Development
of Integrated Curriculum”.

99.     At the provincial level, the Provincial Department of Human Resource and Social
Security issued guidelines that were informed by the project entitled “Suggestions on
Strongly Promote the Connotation Development of Technical Education in Guangdong”
in November 2014, which is comprised of experiences and suggestions for the development
of CBT curricula. The Guangdong PMO organized capacity building activities and
coordinated knowledge sharing activities among the three project schools and with non-
project schools in the province. They also worked with the project schools to produce a
collection of the competency-based curriculum reform outcomes and published the
“Distinguished Papers on World Bank Loan, Guangdong Technical and Vocational
Education and Training Project (2009-2014) (ISBN 978-5100-5567-6), which included 35
papers.

100. At the school level, there were many activities related to policy research and
knowledge sharing that included essays, survey reports, textbook development and training
plans. Specific outputs were: (i) project experience and research results published - GLIS-
130 volumes, GUCS-21 volumes and YTS-26 volumes; (ii) six policy research seminars
with industry and other provincial schools in areas related to the multi-evaluation system,
curriculum and textbook development; and (iii) seven seminars related to key policies
shared with provincial and national decision makers.



                                            31
101. Sub-component 2.2: Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation (IBRD-
US$0.22 million; Counterpart-US$0.15 million equivalent; KTF US$0.10 million
equivalent). This sub-component provided financing to lay the foundation for moving to
evidence-based management and policy development by providing services to: (i) design
and implement project beneficiary assessments and tracer studies; and (ii) develop and
implement a school-based management information system for monitoring school
performance.

102. The intermediate outcome indicator selected to measure progress of this sub-
component was disclosure to the public of student learning outcomes, e.g. number and
percentage of students passing certificate exams, employment. This was accomplished
through schools’ respective websites.

103. In 2014, the PMO hired an independent firm to conduct an impact evaluation of the
project. The province and schools learned valuable lessons with regard to designing and
conducting IEs, and how to analyze the data. The PMO used some of the results to inform
the borrower portion of the ICR and will continue to review the results to inform provincial
TVET reform policies. The project also included two beneficiary studies: one was
conducted in 2012 at project mid-term and one in 2014 prior to project completion. In
addition to the overall project beneficiary studies, the school departments responsible for
student management and graduate employment have adopted and institutionalized the
beneficiary study research methodology in their graduate tracer system. These are all
substantial achievements of the project.

104. The three project schools also developed management information systems. The
designs within institutions vary and include but are not limited to: (i) education information
management platform; (ii) network teaching resources platform; (iii) graduate employment
tracking service system; (iv) school-industry collaboration information platform; (v) multi-
evaluating system; (vi) examination database; (vii) teaching quality assessment system;
(viii) distant teaching platform; and (viii) graduate employment tracking system.

105. Sub-component 2.3: Enhancing Project Management and Coordination
(IBRD-US$0.0 million; Counterpart-US$0.16 million equivalent; and KTF US$0.0
million equivalent). This component used counterpart funds to support the provincial
PMO in the coordination school activities that would benefit from uniformity of approach
and cost savings in design, procurement and implementation. The intermediate outcome
indicator selected to measure progress of this sub-component was “number of activities
completed”. The total number of activities completed by the PMO and school
implementation offices was approximately 87. These activities included TVET reform
workshops and seminars as well as procurement and financial management training.
Overall capacity at the provincial level and school level is judged to have increased
substantially.




                                             32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Project context

106.     At the time the project was designed, Guangdong needed to introduce changes in
the structure of employment and reduce the importance of older labor-intensive industries
using large quantities of low wage, unskilled labor. Enrollments in higher education had
surged since 2000, increasing from 299,500 to 1,008,000 in 2006. As mentioned
previously, wages had begun to rise, with wages in manufacturing and services outpacing
those in agriculture. Demand for technical and vocational education was strong as
measured by the expansion of enrollments in TVET schools.

Economic and Financial Analysis at the PAD stage

107.   The economic analysis in the PAD sought to:
       (i)   Demonstrate the demand for TVET in the province
       (ii) Examine the costs and benefits of the proposed project interventions.

108. According to the PAD employment trends were shifting away from agriculture to
manufacturing, information and communication technology (ICT) and services. At that
time, annual growth rates in wages were as follows: manufacturing wages grew by eight
percent, ICT wages grew eight percent, and wages in the services sector grew by 9 percent.
In addition, at the time of the PAD, the project schools were growing as were the
employment rate and entry level wages of their graduates. (See Table 6 extracted from
PAD below).

Table 6. Average annual increase in project school graduates, placement rates and starting
wages, 2003-2007
                                                 2003     2004    2005    2006 2007
 Total graduates                                  516      631     880    1026 1311
 % graduates employed within 6 months             78       77      79      85    87
 Entry level monthly wages                        700      708     747     869   919

109. The cost-benefit analysis conducted in the PAD relied on standard modelling
assumptions and compared the wages of graduates from project schools to assumed (yet
conservative) counterfactual wages of graduates of non-project schools. According to the
model, the first cohort would not start until 2011 and it would take until 2013 for all 3
cohorts to be enrolled in project schools. In addition, the model assumed that only 10
cohorts would benefit from the project (another conservative assumption). The stream of
benefits was assumed to accrue from graduation at age 22 to retirement at age 60. With
these assumptions in place, according to the cost-benefit analysis in the PAD the internal
rate of return ranged from 11 to 19 percent (depending on additional robustness checks).

110. Similarly, an evaluation was designed which would compare graduates of project
schools to graduates of non-project schools over time along key dimensions such as
employment rates after six months and starting salary. However the original approach had

                                            33
to be modified due to constraints in finding comparable non-project schools. In the end,
the evaluation was conducted using outcomes for students from the project schools enrolled
in the CBT modules (those developed under the project) relative to the outcomes of
students enrolled in non-CBT modules (those that already existed before the project).14

Economic and Financial Analysis at the ICR stage

111. Against this background, the economic and financial analysis in this ICR examines
trends in key outcome indicators as reported by administrative sources and as documented
by the impact evaluation.15 Similarly, given the fact that non-project schools are no longer
a relevant comparison group for project beneficiaries, this section does not attempt to
recreate the cost-benefit analysis in the PAD. Instead, it assesses whether the assumptions
in the PAD materialized and, if so, to what extent. Specifically, these assumptions centered
on the growing demand for TVET graduates as measured by the number of graduates being
produced by these schools and on the assertion that starting wages for graduates would
continue to rise. As noted in the main text, this economic and financial analysis cannot and
does not attempt to attribute causality to the project.

Findings from administrative data

112. The ICR team collated administrative data on the number of graduates as well as
their employment rate after six months and the starting salary they received. The number
of graduates in the project schools fluctuates over time. In the case of the GLIS, data are
not disaggregated by the type of courses students took. The number of graduates in 2014
is 3,327, substantially smaller than the number of graduates in 2009 (4,881). It is therefore
no possible to assert whether or not graduation rates of students enrollment in in CBT
courses was higher than for non-CBT students. In contrast, the number of CBT graduates
at YTS grew over the period 2009-2014, while the number of non-CBT graduates remained
fairly unchanged: there was a sharper increase in rates of graduates for CBT graduates
relative to non-CBT graduates (albeit the absolute numbers were much smaller). When the
number of overall graduates shrunk, more students enrolled in CBT graduated compared
to those enrolled in non-CBT courses (See figure 1).

113. However, the trends in CBT and non-CBT graduates followed different paths. In
the case of GUCS, there was a growth in the number of graduates between 2009 and 2012
followed by a sharp decline in 2013, followed again by an equally sharp increase in 2014.
In both episodes, the growth rate of CBT graduates was faster than that of non-CBT
graduates. Again – the absolute number of graduates from CBT courses is smaller than that


14
   As mentioned before, the PMO hired an independent firm to conduct this evaluation. The baseline study
was conducted in 2010 and follow-up data were collected in 2014.
15
   For a full discussion of the impact evaluation, please see World Bank Guangdong Vocational and Technical
Education and Training Project Impact Evaluation Report. The report notes that: (i) the response rate was
46.5 percent for 2010 baseline survey and 45.5 percent in 2014; (ii) GUCS reported that all graduates
participated in CBT and that data for comparison purposes was not available; and (iii) continued changes and
improvements to subject structure and content did not allow for a simple “before-and-after” comparison as
the variables had changed over the life of the project.

                                                    34
from non-CBT courses. It should be noted that GUCS is much smaller than in the case of
the YTS school mentioned earlier. (See Table 1).

Figure 1. Total Graduates by School


                                                   GLIS
           6000

           5000           4881                      4969
                                    4523
           4000
                                                                3227                   3327
           3000                                                              3113

           2000

           1000

              0
                   2009          2010        2011           2012          2013      2014


                                               GUCS
           2000

           1500                                                 1445                       1517

                                                    1109        1145
           1000                     974             998                                    1023
                          697       756                                      717
            500           502
                                                                             405

              0
                   2009          2010         2011          2012          2013      2014

                                        GUCS Non‐CBt           GUCS CBT


                                                   YTS
           1400
                                                                1274
           1200
                       1077                         1117
           1000                                                              1046      1053
           800                      770
           600
           400                                                  376          385       364
                       278          235             278
           200
             0
                   2009          2010        2011           2012          2013      2014

                                         YTS CBT           YTS Non‐CBT




                                                    35
Table 7. Percentage of graduates from CBT and non-CBT courses
                                     Panel A

                                                          Growth in graduation           Decline in graduation
                                                          between 2009-2012              between 2012-2014
YTS
                        Non-CBT graduates                               18                          -17

                        CBT graduates                                   35                           -3

                                                    Panel B
                                                Growth in                   Decline in             Growth in
                                                graduation                  graduation             graduation
                                              between 2009-               between 2012-          between 2013-
                                                   2012                        2013                   2014
GUCS
           Non-CBT graduates                                     107                     -50                     115

           CBT graduates                                         128                     -65                     152

114. The second assumption centered on the growth rate of wages in Guangdong. Figure
2 shows the growth in average monthly wages for Guangdong as a whole between 2008
and 2013. It also shows the starting wages of project school graduates from CBT and non-
CBT courses between 2009 and 2014. In terms of evaluating the project, it is important to
remember that CBT courses began operation around 2011.

Figure 2. Monthly Wages


                        Guangdong's average monthly wages (RMB)
                                                                                                    3803
    4000                                                                            3451
    3500                                                               2958                               3564
    3000                                           2566                                  3168
                                   2249                                      2799
    2500         2063                                     2436                                      3009
    2000                              2154                                          2614
                      1910                                             2348
    1500                                           2055                                             2089
                 1733              1863                                             1694
    1000                                                               1401
                                   1211            1275
     500         1087
       0                                                                 Project start
                 2008              2009            2010                2011         2012            2013


           Agriculture (farming)          Manufacturing          Construction       Services (Hotel & Restaurant)
           农业                             制造业                    建筑业                服务业（酒店&餐馆）




                                                           36
 Monthly Wages (continued)


                              YTS: Entry level monthly wages
    3000                                                                                 2,700
                                                                           2,370
    2500
                                                             2,000
                                              1,813
    2000                                                                                 2,311
                              1,500
                                                             1,914         2,021
    1500        1,159                         1,804
                              1,568
    1000        1,285
     500
        0
                2009          2010            2011           2012          2013          2014

                                     CBT Graduates         Non‐CBT Graduates


                                      GUCS: Monthly wages
                                                                                         2820
    3000
                              2336            2364           2364          2413
    2500        2082
                                                                                         2710
    2000                                                                   2350
                              2200            2100           2210
    1500        2010
    1000
     500
       0
                2009          2010            2011           2012          2013          2014

                                               CBT         Non‐CBT

 Note: GLIS data not reported as it is not available by CBT and non-CBT graduates. All wage data are in
 nominal terms. 2011 is start of project.

115. Comparing growth rates of wages of project school graduates against the growth
rates of wages in the province by sector of employment would suggest that some graduates
– particularly those who graduated from CBT courses taken at YTS experienced sharp
increases in starting salaries over the period 2009-2014. Across the board, GUCS graduates
also experienced growth in wages. While this was slightly lower than the average of
Guangdong, CBT graduates reported greater growth than non-CBT graduates. For GLIS
graduates, wage growth was not as strong a growth as that posted by the graduates of the
other two schools. CBT graduates from this school did 0.7 percentage points better than
non-CBT graduates. This comparison is necessarily limited and not claiming a causal
connection. It is important to note that the data from the schools pertains to 2009-2014
while the data from the administrative sources is 2008-2013 (Figure 3). As such this is not
a like-for-like comparison at the same point in time but the resulting numbers are
suggestive.




                                                      37
Figure 3. Wage growth rates (secondary and technical graduates combined)


                             Growth in monthly wages, annualized
                           YTS CBT                                                                  26.6%
                        Agriculture                                                 18.4%
                      Construction                                                17.3%
                    Manufacturing                                                16.9%
                      YTS Non‐CBT                                              16.0%
                          Services                                          14.7%
                                ICT                                     12.6%
      All industries in Guangdong                                      12.4%
                         GUCS CBT                                    11.2%
                    GUCS Non‐CBT                              9.1%
                          GLIS CBT                     6.3%
                     GLIS Non‐CBT                    5.6%
                                      0%        5%        10%            15%       20%        25%      30%

    Note: Data from schools is annualized over the period 2009-2014 while the industry level data are
    annualized over 2008-2013. Monthly wage data was reported for 2009 and 2014. Annual rates of
    growth reported.

116. The relative success of the subset of YTS graduates might be explained by that fact
that some data suggests that the school had a higher rejection rate than other project schools.
In fact, data suggests that over time, YTS became more selective. Perhaps this reflects an
early and accurate assessment of candidates’ potential, which in turn manifested itself in
more successful job-market candidates.

Figure 4. YTS rejection rate


                                      YTS: Applicant rejection rate
                12.00%
                                                                                            11%
                10.00%                                                           9%
                                                                       8%
                 8.00%                     7%

                 6.00%         5%                       5%

                 4.00%

                 2.00%

                 0.00%
                              2009         2010        2011           2012      2013        2014


117. One last aspect that can be assessed from administrative data is the percent of
graduates employed after six months. Data on this indicator are somewhat difficult to
interpret because: (i) employment levels for all schools are already high to begin with; and
(ii) there seems to have been no change in employment rates over time for graduates from

                                                         38
GUCS - virtually all of them get a job (99 percent of CBT graduates) versus 97 percent of
non-CBT graduates). This does not vary before or after the start of CBT courses. In the
case of GLIS, the employment rates grew at a steady rate of 2 to 3 percent from 2009-2014,
suggesting that there was little deviation from the pre-existing trend over the life of the
project.

Figure 5. Employment trends


                    YTS: Empoyment rate within 6 months
 100%                                                                    96%    96%
                                                        93%
  95%                   92%
                                         88%                                    95%
  90%                                    93%            93%              93%
            85%
  85%       88%         88%
  80%
  75%
           2009         2010            2011            2012             2013   2014

                               CBT Graduates         Non‐CBT Graduates


                   GUCS Employment rate within 6 months
  100%
   99%
   99%
   98%
   98%
   97%
   97%
   96%
            2009         2010            2011           2012             2013   2014

                                         CBT         Non CBT




                                                39
Employment trends (continued)
                      GLIS: Employment rate within 6 months
                                                                            98.91%
  100.00%
                                                               95.07%
   95.00%                             91.59%       92.56%
                          90.80%
   90.00%
             86.05%
   85.00%

   80.00%

   75.00%
              2009         2010        2011         2012        2013         2014




A summary of findings from the impact evaluation report

118. An assessment of project impact was undertaken by surveying graduates from
project schools in 2010 and 2014. The survey covered those who had benefited from CBT
courses and those who had not. The data below reflect information provided by survey
respondents and may not be identical to the information reported above which is from
administrative sources. The evaluation found the following:

       (i) Project schools enrolled more students from socially disadvantaged
           families. Comparisons of the family background of graduates in 2010 and 2014
           show that a substantial percentage of students enrolled in the three project
           schools mainly came from farmer and rural migrant worker families and that
           this percentage increased over time from 38 percent to 52 percent.

       (ii) Six month employment rates of graduates of college technical majors who
            received CBT were higher than those who did not receive such coursework.
            With respect to college technical majors in project schools, the employment rate
            of graduates who received competency-based coursework in YTS after six
            months was 90 percent, higher than that of college technical graduates who did
            not receive competency-based coursework (87.9 percent). Similarly, the
            employment rate of graduates who received competency-based coursework at
            GLIS after six months was 88.9 percent, higher than that of college technical
            graduates who did not receive competency-based coursework (86.3 percent).

     (iii) Evidence on the six-month employment rates of graduates of secondary
           technical majors who received competency-based coursework is more
           mixed. With respect to secondary technical majors in project schools, the
           employment rate of secondary technical graduates who received competency-
           based coursework in YTS was 77.8 percent, the same as that of secondary
           technical graduates who did not receive competency-based coursework (78.4
           percent). Meanwhile, the employment rate of secondary technical graduates

                                              40
      who received competency-based coursework in GLIS was 69 percent, lower
      than that of secondary technical graduates who did not receive competency-
      based coursework (82.7 percent).

(iv) Overall monthly income after six months was higher for both college and
     secondary technical graduates. Monthly income for college technical
     graduates of the class of 2013 from the Guangdong project schools six months
     after graduation was RMB 3,230, higher than that of baseline college technical
     graduates of the class of 2010 (RMB 2,475). The monthly income for secondary
     technical graduates of the class of 2013 after six months was RMB 2,945, also
     higher than that of baseline secondary technical graduates of the class of 2010
     (RMB 2,187). With monthly income of the class of 2010 as a benchmark and
     adjusted for inflation, monthly incomes for advanced and secondary technical
     graduates of the class of 2013 after six months were RMB 2,911 and RMB
     2,654 respectively, up RMB 436 and RMB 467 respectively compared with the
     class of 2010.

(v)   As with employment rates for secondary majors, the data suggest a mixed
      story for wages of college graduates who took CBT courses compared to
      those who did not. With the exception of GLIS, CBT graduates reported higher
      monthly wages than non-CBT graduates: monthly income for college technical
      graduates who received competency-based coursework from YTS after six
      months (RMB 2,744) was higher than that for college technical graduates who
      did not receive competency-based coursework (RMB 2,383). In terms of GLIS,
      monthly income after six months for college technical graduates who received
      competency-based coursework was RMB 3,149, lower than that for college
      technical graduates who did not receive competency-based coursework (RMB
      3,302).

(vi) Secondary graduates who took CBT courses reported higher monthly
     wages than non-CBT graduates in all schools. Secondary technical graduates
     who received competency-based coursework from GLIS reported that their
     wages after six months was RMB 3,681, higher than that for secondary
     technical graduates who did not receive competency-based coursework (RMB
     3,099). Similar patterns of monthly income for secondary technical graduates
     were reported by those who attended YTS: graduates who received
     competency-based coursework reported that their wage after six months was
     RMB 2,751, higher than that for secondary technical graduates who did not
     receive competency-based coursework (RMB 2,565).

(vii) The evaluation also found that project beneficiaries had fewer difficulties
      during their job search, got more offers and experienced lower costs in
      finding a job. Specifically, college graduates obtained four job offers in 2014
      compared to two in 2010, while secondary graduates received 3 job offers on
      average in 2014 compared to two.



                                      41
Overall assessment

119. Taken together, the evidence would suggest that wages improved for graduates at
both the secondary and college levels. In particular, wages after six months for secondary
level graduates who took CBT courses were between 7 and 18 percent higher than those of
graduates who took non-CBT courses (depending on the school). The one exception is
wages for college graduates at GLIS whose wages were actually 4 percent lower. However,
even for this group, employment rates were higher than those of their peers who did not
take part in CBT courses.

120. The evidence also points to different impacts for college graduates than for
secondary graduates. In GLIS and YTS, college graduates of CBT courses had higher
employment rates than others. While for secondary graduates, there was either no impact
or a slight decline (depending on the school).

121. Possible explanations for the variation across project schools in terms of outcomes
include the fact that in some schools, roll out of reforms may have been slower than
anticipated. This may have been due to capacity constraints of teachers and administrators
to develop new textbooks and learning materials, and a lag time inherent in learning how
to deliver the new CBT courses.

Financial Analysis: Efficiency

122. Efficiency can also be assessed by examining how well funds were spent. The table
below captures what percent of the funds allocated to each component were actually spent:

Table 8. Percent of funds committed/spent (excludes US$0.05 million Front-end fee)

                        Allocated            Actual                    Percent
 Component 1             19.73               19.35                      98.00
 Component 2               0.62               0.59                      95.20
 Total                   20.35               19.94                      97.99

123. Efficiency of the project is also assessed using unit rate costs. Each of the figures
capture unit costs at each of the schools participating in the project. There are several
patterns in the data:

       (i)   Publication costs are fairly uniform across the project schools ranging from
             26,000 – 30,000 per textbook. Equipment costs are fairly uniform as well –
             ranging from 4,800- 5,175;
       (ii) Construction costs are very different across schools ranging from 1,900 to
             3,150 per square meter. But this may be a function of how the costs are
             reported – some capture more components than others; and
       (iii) Teacher training costs also have quite a wide range – 1,000 – 3,000 per person
             per time.



                                           42
Unit Cost comparison for GLIS

Activity                                                                                                                 Comparable Program Unit
                                             Unit Cost                    Explanation of what costs included
                                                                                                                         Costs 1
                                                                          Construction, décor/painting,
Construction (cost per m2)
                                             3,150                        wiring/plumbing (floor height 1st and
                                                                          2nd floor is 5.4 meters
Teacher training                             3,025.63 per                 Training, transportation,
                                             person/time                  accommodation                                  In accordance with provincial
                                             5,175 per computer                                                          standards.
Equipment                                                                 Computer equipment/furniture
                                             (Dell laptops for
                                                                          expense
                                             teachers)
Textbook publishing
                                             29,800 per textbook          Layout, cover design and printing

1
  If the PMO or schools have any other unit costs that can be compared based on government loans or programs that they have with the project schools and/or
other schools in Guangzhou or Guangdong province.
2
  Based on the list of equipment provided in the borrower portion of the ICR and any comparisons that can be made with other PMO purchases. Perhaps the
easiest would be computer equipment.

Unit Cost comparison YTS

    Activity                 Unit Cost            Explanation of what costs included                                                   Comparable
                                                                                                                                       Program Unit
                                                                                                                                       Costs 1
    Construction (cost       1873 per m2          Including:                                                                           In accordance
    per m2)                                       1、Construction RMB/m2: 1776                                                          with provincial
                                                  2、Field visit and design RMB/m2: 44                                                  standards.
                                                  3、Supervision and management fee RMB/m2: 16
                                                  4、Measurement fee RMB/m2: 10
                                                  5、Bidding process RMB/m2: 4


                                                                              43
                                                  6、Other RMB/m2: 23
    Teacher training         1,014                Training expense, accommodation and travel, meals (domestic and
                                                  international teacher training)

    Equipment2               4,877                Auto repair training equipment: 116, Model production equipment:
                             RMB/unit             38, digital equipment: 17, pedagogical equipment: 147, projector:
                                                  150, laptops/desktops: 260, School monitoring network equipment:
                                                  1,630（not including textbooks)
    Textbook publishing      Not available        None
1
  If the PMO or schools have any other unit costs that can be compared based on government loans or programs that they have with the project schools and/or
other schools in Guangzhou or Guangdong province.
2
  Based on the list of equipment provided in the borrower portion of the ICR and any comparisons that can be made with other PMO purchases. Perhaps the
easiest would be computer equipment.

Unit Cost comparison for GUCS

     Activity                                                   Unit Cost                   Explanation of what               Comparable Program
                                                                                            costs included                    Unit Costs 1

     Construction (cost per m2)                                 2,432.38                    Construction expense     In accordance with
     Teacher training                                           1,670                       Training, travel, meals, provincial standards
                                                                                            transportation
     Equipment2                                                 5,384                       G25 设备费用（351 units
                                                                                            台）
     Textbook publishing                                        25,600                      Publishing fee
1
  If the PMO or schools have any other unit costs that can be compared based on government loans or programs that they have with the project schools and/or
other schools in Guangzhou or Guangdong province.
2
  Based on the list of equipment provided in the borrower portion of the ICR and any comparisons that can be made with other PMO purchases. Perhaps the
easiest would be computer equipment.。




                                                                              44
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation/Supervision Support

(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                   Title               Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Dingyong Hou            Sr. Education Specialist       ECSH2 Team Leader
Arvil Van Adams         Consultant                     AFTSE TVET specialist
Fook Yen Chong          Consultant                     EASHD TVET specialist
Xiaowei Guo             Sr. Procurement Specialist     EASR2 Procurement
                                                             Administrative
Jian Hou                Program Assistant              EACCF
                                                             Support
Feng Ji                 Sr. Environmental Specialist   EASCS Safeguards
                        Sr. Financial Management             Financial
Haixia Li                                              EASFM
                        Specialist                           Management
Margaret Png            Lead Counsel                   LEGLE Lawyer
                                                             Education
Cristobal Ridao-Cano    Country Sector Coordinator     EASHS
                                                             Specialist
                                                             Administrative
Sabrina Gail Terry      Program Assistant              EASHD
                                                             Support
                        Sr. Social Development
Chaogang Wang                                          MNSSU Safeguards
                        Specialist
Liping Xiao             Sr. Education Specialist       EASHE   Education
Zhihua Zeng             Sr. Economist                  AFTFE   Economic Analysis
Kin Bin Wu              Sr. Education Specialist       EASHE   Education

Supervision/ICR
Xiaowei Guo             Sr. Procurement Specialist     EASR2   Procurement
                        Sr. Financial Management               Financial
Haixia Li                                              EASFM
                        Specialist                             Management
                        Results Measurement                    Monitoring and
Chaoying Liu                                           CDIAS
                        Specialist                             Evaluation
                                                               Administrative
Tao Su                  Program Assistant              EACCF
                                                               Support
                                                               Administrative
Sabrina Gail Terry      Program Assistant              EASHD
                                                               Support
                                                               Environmental
Yiren Feng              Sr. Environmental Specialist   GENDR
                                                               safeguards
Dingyong Hou            Sr. Education Specialist       GEDDR   Education
Rahman Mokhlesur        Sr. Operations Officer         GEDDR   Education
Han Xu                  Consultant                     GEDDR   Education
Jin Zhang               Consultant                     GEDDR   Education


                                       45
                                                                    Financial
Haiyan Wang               Sr. Finance Officer            CTRLN
                                                                    Management
Liping Xiao               Sr. Education Specialist       GEDDR      Task Team Leader
Anya Wang                 TVET consultant                GEDDR      TVET
Franco Russo              Operations Officer             GEDDR      ICR Co-author
Sandra F. Beemer          Consultant                     GEDDR      ICR Co-author
Amer Hasan                Education Economist            GEDDR      ICR Economist

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                         2.45                    47.96
  FY07                                        25.71                   133.00
  FY08                                        66.03                   393.45
  FY09                                        19.08                   117.82
                          Total:          113.27                     692.23
Supervision/ICR
  FY10                                        12.96                    60.23
  FY11                                        18.85                    76.60
  FY12                                        14.25                    94.52
  FY13                                        18.62                    65.47
  FY14                                        24.93                    80.10
  FY15                                         8.09                    61.18
                          Total:              97.70                  438.10




                                         46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Summary from BA submitted by the PMO. Summary is verbatim to preserve authenticity.
The full report is available on file)

Benefits to teachers:
 Various trainings delivered by the project provided teachers with more training
   opportunities. The data collected through questionnaires showed that most of the
   teachers participated in the project trainings, which were quite effective and contributed
   to broaden their horizons.
 When teachers were asked about how helpful the trainings were: 66.97 percent of the
   teachers indicated that the trainings were helpful or very helpful, while 33.3 percent
   regarded them as helpful. Conclusions could be drawn that the trainings were quite
   effective and recognized by the teachers.
 Results of the field survey also supported the conclusions drawn from questionnaires.
   The field survey showed that teachers got more opportunities for various trainings.
   Some training focused on advanced education concepts and pedagogy while the others
   emphasized on the technical placement. The increased training opportunities and
   diversified types of trainings broadened their horizons. The feedback all showed that
   various trainings contributed a lot to the improvement of their quality and capacities.
 Teachers’ ability in curriculum development was strengthened: First of all, the degree
   of participation of teachers in school-based curriculum development was very high,
   which helped to enhance their ability of curriculum development. When they were
   asked about whether they participated in the school-based curriculum development,
   82.05 percent teachers said yes while only 17.95 percent said no. In general, most of
   the teachers took part in the school-based curriculum development.
 Teachers’ curriculum development capacity was improved significantly: When they
   were asked about how much their capacity in curriculum development was enhanced,
   68.42 percent of the teachers held positive attitudes and believed there was much more
   improvement made; 28.95 percent thought there was improvement; only 2.63 percent
   thought there was no improvement made in their capacity of curriculum development.
 It was found that teachers involved had made great improvement in their capacity of
   curriculum development through attending different kinds of trainings. In this process,
   teachers have constantly improved their ability in curriculum development; that is,
   starting from having no idea about curriculum reform to being able to develop practical
   curriculum modules.
 The data showed that the respondents held positive attitudes on their capacities in
   delivering this new pedagogy. Furthermore, most of them believed they were much
   more capable of adopting the student-centered teaching approach.
 The improvement of utilizing modern education technology and multimedia showed
   that 92.11 percent teachers believed that much or more improvement was made in this
   aspect. The survey data indicated that most of teachers held positive attitudes and
   thought they had made good progress in utilizing modern education technology and
   multimedia and benefited a lot from this project.
 Teachers’ practical ability has been improved: Only 2.63 percent of teachers said there
   was little or no improvement at all.

                                             47
   Teachers’ capacity for innovation has been enhanced. Most teachers showed positive
    attitudes towards the improvement made in their innovation ability. Students thought
    highly of teachers’ abilities, generally reflecting that teachers’ capacities had been
    significantly improved. In particular, teachers developed better practical skills to
    provide better guidance for students as they carried out continual enterprise survey and
    went to enterprises for more placements.

Benefits to students:
 With the implementation and progress of the project, great improvement was made to
   the school teaching conditions and equipment. The equipment purchased with the
   project loan was put into use gradually. Only 10.05 percent of student felt equipment
   was somewhat able to meet and 5.03 percent not at all able to meet students’ learning
   needs. Students generally recognized that the teaching conditions and equipment were
   significantly improved. The facilities purchased with project funds have been utilized
   in teaching successively.
 The curriculum used to focus on subject knowledge before the project implementation.
   Teaching was mainly lecturing while students only were passively receiving and
   participating in the teaching. After project implementation, CBT curriculum was
   delivered in selected majors in three project schools with emphasis was put on student-
   centered teaching. When students were asked about the fact that the teacher considered
   their interests during teaching, only 0.5 percent of the students disagreed.
 With the implementation and progress of this project, the content of the courses got
   more relevant to work, which laid down a good foundation for students’ future work.
   Students generally held a positive attitude towards the teaching and curriculum,
   recognizing that the teaching and curriculum reform contributed to improve the
   relevance of curriculum and teaching to actual production and students’ adaptability to
   their future jobs.
 The implementation of CBT curriculum promoted the enhancement of student
   occupational quality and competence: When students were asked about how much the
   teaching helped them to improve their competence and quality, the population mean
   was between “Helpful” and “Very helpful”.

Benefits to enterprises:
 After the project implementation, the school-industry collaboration and the quality of
   talent training has been greatly improved. As a result, enterprises’ demand for talents
   was well met. The deepened school-industry cooperation contributed to the great
   improvement of training quality so as to meet the enterprise’s demand for qualified
   employees.
 The survey on enterprises’ satisfaction about the graduates of pilot classes was between
   ‘Satisfied’ and ‘Very Satisfied’. The valuation on the graduates’ basic quality showed
   that enterprises generally thought highly of them on their professional theoretical and
   practical knowledge and skills, social morality, working attitudes, loyalty, and
   compliance with the industry and enterprise regulations.
 By expanding and deepening the school-industry cooperation scope, enterprises got
   more and more engaged in student trainings, while the schools’ capacity in serving the
   enterprises was also strengthened. As a result, the enterprises got more benefits through

                                            48
    school-industry collaboration. Enterprises’ satisfaction towards project schools was
    between Satisfactory and Highly Satisfactory.
   Enterprises were willing to establish partnership with TVET schools in other areas
    apart from talent cultivation such as providing in-service trainings, technical
    development and so on. School-industry cooperation was deepened and expanded from
    the original personnel training to a wider range of collaborations. In addition, the
    technical consultancies, employee training and other services provided by the TVET
    institutions were all regarded highly by the enterprises.




                                          49
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   50
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

124. The Technical & Vocational Education and Training Project between Guangdong
Provincial Government and World Bank was signed on July 23rd, 2009. The project is
under the cooperative implementation by the Human Resource & Social Security Bureau
of Guangdong Province (HRSS), which is at the provincial level as well as three technical
vocational schools, which are Guangdong Light Industry Advanced Technical and
Vocational School (later upgraded to be the Provincial Light Industry Technician School,
hereafter as Provincial Light Industry), Guangdong Urban Construction Advanced
Technical and Vocational School (later upgraded to be Provincial Urban Construction
Advanced Technician School, hereafter as Provincial Urban Construction) and Yangjiang
Technician School (later upgraded to be YTS, hereafter as Yangjiang Advanced
Technician). The pilot schools of the project have conducted a series of school-based
reforms and innovations on the intermediate and advanced skill development. The total
investment of the project is US$45.62 million, including the World Bank loan of US$20
million, a counterpart fund of US$25.52 million and a grant of US$400,00016 from South
Korea. It has taken 5 years to implement the project, and it has been successfully completed
on December 31, 2014.

125. With the support and assistances from the World Bank project TTL and other team
experts, the project has achieved significant outcomes after 5 years’ practice and
exploration. The project implementation schedule has met the expectations, and it has met
or exceeded all the targets according to the planned indicators. During the past 5 years, the
three schools have not only successfully accomplished the one basket of reform tasks with
the school-enterprise cooperation as the central line, but also carried out the innovations to
achieve significant progress in many aspects of the work based on the previous foundations.
The quality and the quantity have both exceeded the PAD target a lot, and there is a
significant improvement in the construction of the software and hardware facilities. The
size of the school, the impact of vocational education and the interior development, have
been improved greatly.

1.     The Provincial HRSS Bureau has paid much attention to the project implementation,
and set up a provincial PMO for project management with establishing a sound
management framework. During the project implementation, the PMO has carried out the
following: One, produce various financial management and procurement management
rules under the established system and effectively facilitate the project implementation;
Two, focus on the cost-effectiveness, all the tasks in goods, civil works, reform as well as
the newly added tasks under the project have been completed. The civil works
implementation has met the safeguard requirements. The project requires the participating
schools to complete two major components: One, school-based reform and innovation;
Two, policy development and capacity building. Specific task requirements are also raised
under these two major components.



16
 As mentioned earlier, US$300,000 were allocated for the three national studies carried out by NDRC and
US$100,000 for the IE.

                                                  51
126. Component One. School-Based Reforms and Innovation. The tasks completed
by the three schools were:

   (i)     Set up and strengthen the Consulting Committee for the school-industry
           cooperation. In the past 5 years, the three schools have established 14 school-
           industry consulting institutions. 5 of them were established by YTS, 6 of them
           were established by the GUCS, and 3 of them were established by the Provincial
           Light Industry;

   (ii)    Compose the standardized school-industry cooperation agreement. In the past
           5 year, the three schools have signed 280 school-industry cooperation
           agreements according to the needs of specialty development. 82 of them were
           signed by the GLIS, 102 of them were signed by the GUCS and 96 of them
           were signed by YTS (See Appendix 1); and

   (iii)   Employ the industry representative to join the technical consulting committee
           to set up capacity standards; develop and adopt the new standards to verify the
           assessment and certificate evaluation system; promote the sharing of the
           equipments and staff between the school and the industry.

127. During the period of project implementation, the three schools have employed the
industry representatives to join the school-industry cooperation, and developed a training
team including the instructors from both schools and industry. To be more specific, there
were 135 industry representatives joining the cooperation activities in the GLIS; 78 for the
GUCS; and 103 for YTS.

128. Also, the GLIS has made 23 training plans for the professional technicians; the
GUCS has made 4 training plans; Yangjiang Advance Technician School has made 5 plans.
The GLIS has made 162 curriculum standards, 101 of them are relating to the World Bank
project; the GUCS has made 64 curriculum standards, 46 of them are relating to the World
Bank project; YTS has made 57 curriculum standards, 24 of them are relating to the World
Bank project.

129. With the lead by the GUCS, the three schools have discussed and agreed to carry
out 17 management regulations on their campuses GUCS summarized these 17 regulations
into the “Summary of School-Industry Cooperation Management Regulations”. The
consultants on law affairs were also employed to guide the school-industry cooperation at
the same time. The schools also shared staff and equipment between schools and industry.
In addition, GUCS established an information platform of school-industry collaboration
meant to strengthening the information communication between the school and the
enterprise, assisting the two-way options of cooperative target between the school and the
industry, and promoting the practical training and employment for the graduate.




                                            52
130. The innovations conducted by the participated schools. Schools did the
following:


   (i)     set up school-industry cooperation;

   (ii)    collaborative training with the dual-system between the school and the industry
           which is a concept of “dual-system” that comes from a document of the
           Guangdong HRSS Bureau, which means a combination of the training system
           in the industry and the training system in the schools;

   (iii)   jointly developed the team of “double-instructors” which meant employing the
           technicians and advanced technician talents from the industry to be the part-
           time instructors, which is in accordance with the rules and principles of
           personnel training of the technical & vocational schools GLIS inviting 135
           industry instructors; the GUCS 78 industry instructors; and YTS 103 industry
           representatives;

   (iv)    jointly participate in the teaching with 43 enterprises having participated in the
           teaching in GUCS, and 15 in YTS;

   (v)     jointly establish practical training bases with schools providing the sites and
           equipment which could also be offered by the enterprises with GLIS building
           up 82 training bases; GUCS 55 training bases; and YTS 35 training bases;

   (vi)     jointly develop the project research and technical training service with GLIS
           cooperating with enterprises to apply for 36 national patents, 28 of them were
           applied by the teachers and 8 of them were applied by the students and GUCS
           conducted 28 service projects such as the technical consulting, technical
           training and technical assessment;

   (vii)   jointly set up the technical master studios that brought high-end talent to train
           the advanced technicians; and

   (viii) jointly implement the teaching assessment with industry.

131. Strengthening the training, enhancing the management capacity. The agreed
tasks related to this were: (i) the designs and implementations of domestic and overseas
study tours; and (ii) long-term and short-term training provided for the school’s
administrators and specialty leaders. The completions implemented by the three schools
were: (i) training abroad; administrators were sent to the countries or regions which have
advanced vocational education systems such as Germany, the United States, the UK,
Singapore and Hong Kong SAR, China to learn the vocational education mode; (ii)
participating the training and education training at home, including the training on the
practical capacities received by the school teachers in the enterprises; and (iii) training on
campus which included two ways: inviting experts to conduct trainings on campus,

                                             53
establishing a team of trainers (instructors) which is composed of the experts who have
been sent out of the province for training or been widely recognized within the school, and
they organized and provide highly relevant professional trainings according to the different
categories.

Table 9. Total number of trainees in the three schools (person times)

                                           Training        Training at       Training on
         School               Total
                                            abroad           home              campus
YTS                           10,875                  98          1,475                9,302
Guangdong Light
Industry Technician             2,880               121             893                1,866
School
Guangdong Urban
Construction Technician       10,071                101           2,099                7,871
School
Total                         23,826                320           4,467              19,039

132. The school administrators and specialty leaders are two crucial leading groups in
the school, who are playing the roles of coordinating and modeling in every important
working field. There is no doubt that giving trainings to these two groups of people is very
crucial to enhance the school’s management capacity. Over the past 5 years, all of these
three schools paid high attention to the training to the school administrators and specialty
leaders, with YTS in particular, who sent as many as 202 school administrators for training,
and as many as 68 specialty leaders for training. It can be seen that with the strong support
of the World Bank project loans, the trainings to the school administrators and specialty
leaders have been intensively implemented in all of the three schools, which laid a solid
foundation for the significant improvement in the school’s management capacity.

133. The innovation extension tasks conducted by the participated schools. The
three schools have innovated in the following two aspects: One, teachers as the trainees.
The statistics on the trainee numbers of these three schools include the teachers as the
trainees; Two, improve the IT management capacity. With the support of World Bank loan,
the information technology construction of the three schools has received breakthrough in
progress and the advancement level. 8 management information systems have been built
in GUCS, which are: Education Informational Management Platform, Network Teaching
Resources Platform, Graduate Employment Tracking Service System, School-Industry
Collaboration Information Platform, Students’ Psychological Archive System, Multi-
Evaluating System, Examination database, and Resources Database. 7 information systems
in YTS, which are Network Intelligent Office System, Information Management System,
Teaching Quality Assessment System, Distant Teaching Platform, Yangjiang Advanced
Technician Further Education Network, Course Scheduling System, and Graduate
Employment Tracking Service System. The information OA systems for their
administration, One Card Pass for campus management, the multimedia resource database

                                             54
for teaching resources construction, the computer software for the development, teaching
and evaluation of CBT curriculum, as well as the information platforms in these three
schools on training and employment, school-industry collaboration, online examination
and graduate tracking are under the proper and sound operation with certain good effects.

134. Reform and Innovations on the Competency Curriculum. The tasks by the
project agreement were: (i) modular CBT curriculum; (ii) teaching materials; and (iii)
consulting with enterprises, prioritize the amendment of methods assessment and
verification for skills which are are greatly demanded by enterprises.

135. Modular CBT curriculum. Modular CBT curriculum refers to the competency-
based curriculum which has been widely used in the international advance industrial
countries. This kind of curriculum is quite striving in the countries with the market
economic system due to its combination with knowledge and capacities, as well as its
emphasis on the training of professional qualities. The CBT curriculum which has been
jointly introduced with the World Bank is quite suitable to China’s actual situations, and it
is more appealing to the economic developed province such as Guangdong. With the
coordination of World Bank PMO at the provincial level, the three schools made the
“Suggestions on Strongly Promote the Connotation Development of Technical Education
in Guangdong” by means of the school-industry collaboration. The reform directions of
these three schools have been therefore uniformed, and the working process as well as the
operating methods of the competency-based curriculum reform has also been regulated.
During the period of the curriculum reform, the three schools not only comply with the
“Guiding Manual”, but also achieve breakthroughs and rich outcomes based on their real
situations.

Table 10. A summary of the CBT curriculum development outcomes in the three schools
over the past 5 years.

           Training Plans       Curriculum          Textbooks on         Published
 School
           (No.)                Standards (No.)     Campus (copy)        Textbooks (copy)
 YTS                        5                  57                   35                    1
 GLTS                      23                 162                 100                     6
 GUCS                       4                  64                   36                   10
 Total                     32                 283                 171                    17

136. The table below shows the number of majors, classes and students involving into
the competency-based curriculum reform in these three schools over the past 5 years. The
three columns of the data demonstrate the coverage of the competency-based curriculum
reform: 21 majors, 169 classes and 9,146 students were involved (see Table 11 on
following page).




                                             55
Table 11. A summary of the competency-based reforms conducted by the three schools over
the past 5 years

School    Number of Majors        Number of Classes              Number of students
          participating the       participating the reform       participating the
          reform                                                 reform
  YTS                  5                          21                          1,716
 GLTS                  11                         122                         6,123
 GUCS                  5                          26                          1,307
  Total                21                         169                         9,146

137. Consulting with enterprises, prioritize the amendment of methods assessment
and verification for skills which are are greatly demanded by enterprises. In addition
to the national stipulations on the skills assessment and appraisal, the school and the
industry would jointly make plans for and implement the assessments with the practical
skills teaching as the core element. Over the past 5 years, the schools were able to jointly
develop evaluation systems with enterprises and form a multi-evaluation system.

138. Reforms and Innovations on Students Evaluation. The project was to: (i)
adjusting the students evaluating mode, make it related to the competency-based
curriculum; (ii) developing the tools to release students’ assessment results which is
regarded as one of the indicators of the school’s teaching quality.

   (i)     Adjusting the students evaluating mode, make it related to the competency-
           based curriculum. The adjustment job is led by the GLIS, and the three schools
           jointly decided the assessment criteria which have been put into use. The GLIS
           gave the evaluations on the teaching effects of the curriculum reformed classes
           in every semester. The GUCS depended on the uniformed assessment criteria
           which have been decided by the three schools to improve its own student’s
           evaluation system with the consideration of the real situation in their school.
           The students’ stage learning outcomes were displayed to be voted by students
           and teachers with a multiple way of assessment. According to the survey
           conducted by Mycos Company and the statistics provided by the schools, the
           three participating schools have adopted CBT assessment to evaluate their
           students’ learning effects. Among them, GLTS has assessed the highest number
           of the majors under the CBT assessment (6 majors), and GUCS has 2 majors
           and YTS has 3 majors assessed under the CBT assessment respectively.

   (ii)    Developing the tools to release students’ assessment results which are
           regarded as one of the indicators of the school’s teaching quality. All three
           schools publish the assessment results on-line to the public. In addition, the
           GLIS released the “Students Assessment Results List” every week, so that every
           student could be clearly aware of their individual situations all the time, and
           then make constant improvements. This can enhance the students’ self-

                                            56
           discipline and self-management capabilities. The GUCS included the students’
           daily performances, class attendance and learning attitude into the
           comprehensive assessment in addition to the students’ works, which made the
           assessments on student capabilities to be linked with the social employment
           needs.

139. Reforms and Innovations on the Improvements in the teaching quality. The
project was to: (i) enhancing the teachers’ teaching capacities for the new competency-
based curriculum by means of the students’ learning evaluation; and (ii) conducting the
pre-employment training and in-service training to the teachers with the new competency-
base curriculum

   (i)     Enhancing the teachers’ teaching capacities for the new competency-based
           curriculum by means of the students’ learning evaluation. The reform on
           the students learning evaluation method, especially the involvement of the
           students, learning group and the industry representatives into the teaching
           quality assessment, have “forced” the teachers to take the reform on the
           teaching methods for the competency-based curriculum seriously. The modular,
           competency-based curriculum proposed by the World Bank project and the
           reform on the students’ learning evaluation in particular, made them to have
           “two closes, three mean-times, and one enhancing”, that is, close to the industry,
           and students; reforming, teaching and textbooks composing implemented in the
           meantime; enhancing the teaching capacities by means of reform.

   (ii)    Conducting the pre-employment training and in-service training to the
           teachers by means of the new competency-base curriculum. The data from
           the “World Bank Project Impact Research Report” provided by Mycos
           Company shows that: among the three participating schools and out of their
           sample, GLIS has the largest amount of teachers to be trained for the
           competency-based curriculum (139 teachers), followed by YTS (125 teachers)
           and GUCS (12 teachers) respectively (in the two majors under the curriculum
           reform).


140. The Improvements in the School Facilities. The project was to: (i) improve and
expand the teaching facilities and the relevant infrastructures; (ii) equip with the facilities
to meet the needs of new modular, competency-based curriculum. The implementation by
the three schools:

   (i)     Improving and expanding the teaching facilities and the relevant
           infrastructures. The improvements in the teaching sites of the three schools:
           As the proverb says, “The earth will tremble and the mountains will sway if the
           foundation is not solid”. The foundations of the technician schools include the
           software and hardware conditions. The World Bank loan has played a
           significant role in improving the teaching facilities of these three schools.



                                              57
141. Policy Research & Knowledge Sharing at National Level. The project was to: (i)
conduct policy research on the key issues of Technical & Vocational Education and
Training reform; (ii) conduct policy research on the key issues of Technical & Vocational
Education and Training reform; to learn lessons from the project implementation, and
distribute experiences as well as the previously mentioned research outcomes. The Project
Management Office (PMO) of GD HRSS Bureau organized the three participating schools
to summarize and produce a collection of the competency-based curriculum reform
outcomes, and published the “Collection of Excellent Papers of World Bank Technical &
Vocational Education and Training Project (2009-2014)” (ISBN 978-5100-5567-6), which
has included 35 excellent papers from the participating schools. The collection was
promoted within the province and issued publicly. (Table X provides additional
information.)

Table 12. The Survey List on the policy development and capacity building
conducted by the three participating schools

                    Name of School                         GUCS          YTS        GLTS
Times of the seminars on policy research                                  6
Quantity of the publications on the project experiences
                                                             21           26         130
and research outcomes (number of copies)
Quantity of policies and researches shared with
                                                                          7
stakeholders and policy makers (number)
Quantity of the Applied Management Information
                                                             22            6          2
System (number)
Number of people participating the monitoring and
                                                             42           11          3
evaluation (number)

Quantity of the capacity building activities (number)        45           11          3
Source: Mycos Company impact evaluation

142. Project Monitoring & Evaluation. The project was to provide: (i) the evaluation
of project beneficiaries and the design & implementation of the following-up survey; (ii)
The baseline survey and impact evaluation conducted by Beijing Mycos Consulting Co,
Ltd as the third party; (iii) set up annual monitoring indicator framework, and collect data
annually; and (iv) develop and implement the school-based management information
system to monitor school’s performance.

   (i)     The evaluation of project beneficiaries and the design & implementation
           of the following-up survey. The project beneficiary analysis was conducted at
           twice: the mid-term evaluation in October 2014 and final evaluation in May
           2015. The degree of the benefits received from the the project implementation
           by the three types of beneficiaries, who are teachers, students and enterprises,
           the successful experiences drawn from the project implementation and the

                                            58
           exiting problems have been objectively evaluated by analyzing the
           implementations of reform measures which have been stipulated by the World
           Bank project in the three participating schools. The report has proposed
           effective suggestions for the project, and summarized a series of key index and
           indicators during the project implementation process. It also provided
           fundamental materials for the World Bank expert team’s project evaluation, as
           well as the experiences which can be used as the reference by other World
           Bank’s project implementation and promotion;

   (ii)    The baseline survey and impact evaluation conducted by Beijing Mycos
           Consulting Co, Ltd as the third party. According to the purchasing
           requirements of the World Bank consultation activities, and with the support of
           Korean donation, the provincial PMO selected Beijing Mycos Company as the
           third party institution to conduct an impact evaluation. The baseline report
           aimed to present the initial situation of the project before the intervention, and
           to evaluation the project impact when project was completed. The project
           impact investigation at the final stage of the project was conducted from April
           2nd to June, 15th, 2014. It can be seen that the majority of the project indicators
           have met or exceeded the expectations by comparing the baseline report and
           impact report. The project is proved to be a huge success;

   (iii)   Set up annual monitoring indicator framework, and collect data annually.
           The framework is composed of the project output indicators, project final
           outcome indicators and mid-term output indicators, and it is collected
           systematically at the end of every year; and

   (iv)    Develop and implement the school-based management information system
           to monitor school’s performance. YTS took the lead to jointly implement the
           graduate employment tracking service system with the other two participating
           schools, for the purpose to assess the schools’ performances.

143. The Management by Provincial Project Management Office (PMO). Since the
start of this VET project, the provincial project management office (PMO) has experienced
institutional and personnel adjustment, yet it kept the spirit of active exploration,
significant innovation and diligent hard working. PMO strictly stayed with the World Bank
project management requirements, focus on the constant regulations on financial
management, procurement management, environmental management as well as the
monitoring & evaluation. It also strictly complied with the initially designed task outline
and logical framework, conducting a concrete promotion on various project work,
overcoming various limited conditions and difficulties, and finally reached the ideal target
with the significant achievement. Over the past 5 years, PMO organized the relevant staff
from the participating schools to take part in various trainings. In the meanwhile, PMO
actively focused on its own self-improvement as well as the quality enhancement by
organizing as many as 1,000 people to participate in various training classes on project
management, financial management and procurement management under the World Bank
project. PMO paid high attention to each time of project supervision by the World Bank

                                             59
experts team and the annual auditing by the relevant provincial departments. PMO insisted
on the principles of getting the materials prepared in advance, ensuring the logistical
support during the work and adjusting & correcting afterwards.

The Lessons of Experience in the project implementation of school-based reform and
innovation.

144. Experience one: Innovation in collaborative training system by both schools
and enterprises. The nature of the dual school-enterprise system is the school-enterprise
collaboration with significance in depth. The collaboration between the school and the
enterprise is more than the simple internships or employment recommendations. For one
thing, the collaborative classes have been recognized and paid high attention by both school
and enterprise, which led to a sound effectiveness. Also, it can be easily accepted by the
vocational schools based on their previous familiarity. The classes with the similar names
but different contents can led the schools which have already conducted the “Pre-
contracted class” and “Title sponsorship class” to have a further reform and innovation;
Fourth, two innovative measure have been conducted to work with the “School-Enterprise
Collaborative Class”, which are: the improvement of the organizational institutions and the
establishment of the information platform for the school-enterprise collaboration.

145. Experience Two: Exploring a collaborative training system by means of the
league of schools. This is the experience of the GUCS, which has been implemented since
March, 2014, including: a league with four parties of government, administrations, schools,
enterprises. The Guangdong School-Enterprise Collaborative & Development League on
Urban Construction” was established under the guidance of the Provincial Department of
HRSS, which was led by the GUCS and included four parties of government,
administration, enterprises and schools. Three industrial associations, 33 enterprises and 5
schools have joined the league. Combine the league and the industrial park to co-create a
fashionable and intellectual industrial park as the training base. The industrial park took
the co-training on the highly skilled technical personnel as the basic task, and built up a
deeply integrated model to link the industry and education.

146. Experience Three: Exploring the multiple training method for the
management capacity. The three schools have explored the experiences in the multiple
training methods on how to make use of the World Back loans to conduct effective training
and enhance the school’s management capacity. This was done through: (i) organizing
triple-level training, which is training at the school level (on campus), the training at the
national level (domestic) and the training at the international level (abroad); (ii) selecting
trainees from the leaders of schools, middle level leadership, specialty leaders and key
teachers; (iii) conducting the dual-track training in terms of the training targets for both
teaching and administration; and (iv) organizing the training for the group of instructors
within the school.

147. Experience Four: Making good use of the Specialty Leaders. The highly skilled
teachers guided the technicians of the enterprise on the project research and development



                                             60
on the site of advanced devices, expanding a new path for the specialty construction and
development with the innovation.

148. Experience Five: Exploring the multiple developing method for the
competency-based curriculum. The three schools are different from each other when they
are developing and implementing the same process of the competency-based curriculum
which is related to the development idea of the integrated curriculum promoted by the
Ministry of HRSS. The GLIS took a combined method with the collective course planning,
large-sized class practice and public model lessons on teaching methodology to intensively
promote the teaching of competency-based curriculum after they confirmed the school-
enterprise collaborative courses. The GUCS took the measures such as the small-sized class
teaching, action-guided curriculum teaching competition, separated examination from the
teaching, a multiple evaluation and so on, to intensively expand its confirmed action-
guided curriculum which was co-developed by the school and the enterprise. YTS guided
the development and the implementation of their competency-based curriculum based on
the integrated curriculum developing regulations by the Ministry of HRSS and was highly
recognized by the experts from the Ministry of Education by using the teaching
methodology to promote the reform of the curriculum.

149. Experience Six: Exploring the multiple evaluation method for the teaching
outcomes. The three schools have all conducted a multiple evaluation method, with the
following characteristics: (i) appoint a dual evaluation subject for the evaluation criteria,
which can be appointed by the school and a third party; (ii) multiple evaluation subject: the
students, the supervisor, the practical experts from the enterprises and the parents; (iii) self-
assessment, peer review within the group, teacher’s evaluation, and the evaluation on the
information platform; (iv) information-based evaluation: the school has set up an
information platform for the evaluation on the teaching effects. The students, supervisors,
practical experts from the enterprises and the parents can have their own access to give the
evaluation separately. The evaluation results will be processed automatically by the
computer; and (v) the release of the students’ learning results. The results of the students
performance are released weekly to the students within the stipulated scope. The
exploration on the multiple ways of evaluations on the teaching outcomes not only
significantly improve the teaching quality but also lay a solid foundation for the tracking
service of the graduate employments.

150. Experience Seven: Exploring the ways to improve teachers' capabilities. This
was done by: (i) transferring ideas through schools organizing and conducting a great deal
of trainings at various levels, such as the trainings on campus, and the trainings in domestic
and abroad, to transfer teachers’ educating ideas in the technical &vocational education,
development of specialty construction, curriculum development, teaching and evaluation;
(ii) enhancing the capacity of curriculum reforms. Teachers were encouraged to participate
in the curriculum reform, during which they got the ideas further transferred and abilities
enhanced; (iii) enhancing the professional practical capacity; (iv) organizing teaching
contests; and (v) stimulations by raising the class pay coefficient of the teachers who were
involved into the curriculum reform to encourage more teachers to join the team of the
integrated curriculum reform and teaching.

                                               61
151. Experience Eight: Exploring the construction of digital campus The digital
campuses of the three schools have been basically completed with the strong support from
the World Bank project loans.




                                          62
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    63
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Distinguished Papers on World Bank Loan: Guangdong Technical and Vocational
Education and Training Project (2009-2014)

Project Implementation Completion Report, World Bank Project Management Office,
December 2014

Impact Evaluation Report

Assessment report of course development, May 2012

Beneficiary Assessments, 2012 and 2014

Country partnership strategy

Aides-memoire




                                         64
MAP




      65
