Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Rqst No. 5975-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 21, 1986
Projects Deapartment
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
IIi dgcmnemt ie a rebcotud d_bnIt. sd my be ..d by redh,ds ady is tm peznmme of
thdr ldl ift.. lb e       _ntmb ina  NW ehwiw  be d dl d w_thet Wee  Bak adzaid..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1986)
Currency Unit               =       Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00                     =       Cz$ 13.80  1/
Cz$ 1                               US$0.072464
Cz$ 1 million               =       US$72.464
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =        3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)            =       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             =        10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)   =        100 ha = 0.386 sq. miles
I cubic meter (m3)          =       1.3 cubic yard = 264.2
1 liter (1)                =        0.264 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)            =        2.2 pounds
1 ton                       =       1,000 kg = 2.205 pounds
1 kw                        =       1.340 hp
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil
January 1 to December 31
1/ A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 Cruzeiros, was
introduced effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate
shown.



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB                  Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB                 Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of Northeast Brazil)
CODEVASF            Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
COELBA              Companhia de Electricidade do Estado do Bahia
(Electric Company of Bahia)
COTIA               Cooperativa Agricola de Cotia
(Agricultural Cooperative of Cotia)
DER                 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(Department of Roads)
DNOCS               Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
DNOS                Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department of San'tary Works)
EMATER-BA           Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de
Bahia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company of Bahia)
FAO/CP              FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FSESP               Fundacao de Servicos de Saude Publica
(Public Health Service Foundation)
ICB                 Concorrencia Internacional
(International Competitive Bidding)
LCB                 Concorrencia Local
(Local Competitive Bidding)
PIN                 Plano de Integracao Nacional
(National Plan of Integration)
POLONORDESTE        Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROCANOR            Programa Especial de Apoio as Populacoes Pobres das
Zonas Canavieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
This document has a stited distribuon and may be uud by recpints only n te pfonanxe
thbe ofiid duue Its contents may not otherwi be dckaed without Wodd Bo* authoriuti |



PROHIDRO            Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROVARZEA           Program. para Irigacao de Varzeas
(Program of Irrigation of Flooding Lands)
SERTANEJO           Programa Especial de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of
the Semi-arid Region of the Northeast)
SUCAM               Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE              Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .i......................    ii-v
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ..... . .. ..  .................             1
A.  Agriculture in the National Economy ..............          1
B.  The Rural Northeast  ...... 06......0................       1
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast  ...... ........................                2
D.  Experience with Past Bank Lending....o.........O....        3
E.  Irrigation in the Northeast...........  ...........         4
II.   THE...........................................
A.  The Project Area .....5
B.  Project Origin and Rationale......................          7
C.  Project Objectives..... ... ..    ......o.o...              7
D.  Project Description and Detailed Features.o.re....          8
E.  Project Cost Estimates-....................oo...           10
F.  Implementation Schedule and Status of Engineering.         12
G. Financing, Procurement, Disbursements,
and On-lending Termss.......... ........o.....          12
H.T  Environmental Impactm......a. o... ..................     16
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMTENTATION ......... .o ........          .....         16
A.  Institutioual Framework and Management                     16
B.  Operation and Maintenance       .....17
C. Farmers' Organizatons   18
D.  Recovery of Project Ct0t                       s          ....*. .... .  18
E.    M    oioig19
F.  Accounts and Aud.t i n g                                   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Brazil
during July 1985 consisting of Messrs. Emanuel, Irrigation Engineer;
Herbert Floyd, Agriculturalist; Jose Fernandez, Economist (Bank) and
Michael Raczynsky, (Consultant).



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING .....................         20
A.  Agricultural Production ..........................        20
B.oMreig............................. 23
V.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                                   23
A.  Benefits and Justificationf.....                          23
B. Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis          24
C. Project Risks ....................................         25
VI.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........         25
Tables in Text
2.1  ReLubilitated Irrigation Area ....................0        8
2.2  Total Project Cost ... ....0000 ... .............         11
2.3  Procurement Arrangements ........... ....... ..... ..     13
2.4  Disbursements by Category.-ooo ....ooo.o.......           14
6.1  Water Demand...o.o..............................          21
4.2  Farm Size Distribution.................. .......-         22
Annexes
1.  Project Works under the Rehabilitation Component..         28
2.  The New Irrigation Formoso A Project Works .......         46
3.  Operation and Maintenance .........*..............         49
4.  Agricultural Extension and Farmer Training........         57
5. External Technical Assistance and CODEVASF Staff
Training........................................         62
6.  Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities.........         64
7.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements ..........        65
8.  Agricultural Production and Farm Models ...........        66
9.  Incremental Economic Analyses .....................        71
10.  Sensitivity Test ..0..... ............................     74
11.  Related Documents Available in Project File.......         75
Charts
1.  Implementat'or. Schedule-o ..... ....... ............o9o   76
2.  Typical CODEVASF Regional Directorate Organization         77
map
1. Location of Proposed Subproiects - Map IBRD-19210



- iii -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing
Agency:            Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
(CODEVASF)
Amount:              US$57.0 million  equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Beneficiaries:       The project would benefit about 9,200 low-income
families comprising (a) 2,600 farmer families in
existing CODEVASF irrigation perimeters operating up
to 6-ha plots; (b) 2,200 landless families to be
settled on new irrigated land in 4-ha holdings; and
(c) about 4,400 additional rural families through
creation of permanent and part-time jobs.
Project
Description:       The proposed project is part of the Federal
Irrigation Program, designed to increase the income of
the small farmers living in one of the driest areas of
the Northeast Region. It would also provide support
for CODEVASF to develop the capability required for
executing, operating and managing its entire
irrigation program. The project would provide for the
rehabilitation of 17,800 ha of irrigated lands and the
irrigation of some 11,000 ha of new lands.
Incremental output from the project would contribute
to offset regional deficits of basic foods and to
produce significant amounts of horticultural and
export crops.



- iv -
Risks:               CODEVASF has 'limited experience in multi-faceted
operations and qualitative and quantitative
limitations at middle management level to supervise
engineering consultants and contractors. The project
includes considerable technical assistance and
institutional strengthening to help overcome present
shortcomings and to develop CODEVASF's capability to
operate and maintain the investment at full
development. The expected benefits of the proposed
project cannot be achieved through irrigation alone;
it requires ac interinstitutional cooperation among a
number of agencies responsible for providing
agricultural extension services and credit. During
project preparation, institutional weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve
institutional effectiveness and coordination.



v
- - - - US$ Millions 
Estimated Proiect Costs                        Local     Foreign      Total
A. New Formoso A Irrigation                  24.7      17.2         41.9
B. Rehabilitation Schemes                    17.4      13.0        30.4
C. Production Support Activities              5.8       1.0         6.8
D. Investment Credit                          3.4       0.6         4.0
E. Social Investments                         2.7       1.6         4.3
F. Institution RiBlding                       3.4       3.9         7.3
Total Baseline Cost                          57.4      37.3        94.7
Physical Contingencies                        6.5       5.1        11.6
Price Contingencies                          11.2       6.1         17.3
Total Project Cost                           75.1      48.5        123.6 1/
Financing Plan
Government                                   66.6      -           66.6
IBRD                                          8.5      48.5        57.0
TOTAL                                        75.1      48.5       123.6
Estimated Disbursement
… - - - - - - - - - - - - US$ Millions - - - - - - - - - -
Bank FY                1987    1988   1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual                  4.7 2/  8.6   15.2  12.4   8.7    4.3    1.7    1.4
Cumulative              4.7    13.3  28.5  40.9  49.6   53.9   55.6   57.0
Rate of Return: 15% 3/
- Rehabilitation Schemes
Estreito:                 14%
Sao Desiderio:           16%
- New Formoso A Irrigation:  15%
Map: IBRD 19210
1/ Including about US$11.2 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the Special Account.
3r/ This figure is based on calculations for three schemes (Estreito, Sao
Desiderio and Formnoso A) and estimates for the other five.



1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the National Economy
1.01      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing about 30% of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38% to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, the value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice,
and cassava, has also fallen. In most vears, Brazil has remained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
1.02      In recent years, the share of agricultura; lands devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Southeast, while the North and Northeast have
continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of the
sector's key role in curbing inflation and improving the balance of
payments, the Government has shown a strong commitment to agricultural
development.l1
B. The Rural Northeast
1.03      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the federal territory of Fernando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais. Its total area is over 1.5
million km2, over 18% of the country's total area. The Northeast has been
viewed as the nation's foremost problem region since the late 1800s. The
country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, it subsequently
lagged behind, as industrial, agricultural and commercial activity shifted
to the south.
1.04      Drought and uncertain rainfall, highly skewed land distribution,
and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of
poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people
migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is at
least partially the result of five successive years of severe drought
1/   For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report No.
3305-BR.



-2-
affecting large areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the
Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29Z of the national
total) growing at 2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5
inhabitants per square kilometer. About one-half of the population lives
in rural areas, and over 50Z of the regional work force is engaged in
agriculture. Rural incomes are very low. As of 1980, over 80X of the
rural population earned one minimum salary (about US0675 annually) or less,
a little over 35% of the national average, and the poorest 50% received
only about 10% of total regional income.
1.05      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, Fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and .' major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed
farming for the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy
cattle. The semi-arid sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only
sparsely populated, is the largest of the subregions and the most
vulnerable to periodic droughts. Ownership of agricultural land throughout
the Northeast is highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms)
occupy less than 6Z of total farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms)
occupy more than 40Z of the total farm area.
1.06      Rainfed agriculture in much of the Northeast, and especially in
the semi-arid sertao, is limited mainly to subsistence crops and to
extensive livestock production. Due to high climatic risks, lack of access
to land tenure and credit, and inadequate production support services, most
rainfed farmers in the drought polygon are unwilling to adopt high value
crop production methods. The large sums spent by the Government in the
Northeast for disaster in drought years relief have gone primarily to
support rural small holders in the semi-arid sertao whose rainfed crops
have failed.
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
1.07      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought-relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was
originally responsible for the coordination of all public investment
activities, drought emergency measures, and powerful fiscal and credit
incentives to attract new private investment. Initiative for regional
policy formulation was transferred to the Ministry of Interior in the 1970s
with SUDENE continuing to play an important role in the coordination of
federally-funded special rural programs.
1.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focused on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast



-3-
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones (PROCANOR).
SERTANEJO is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of the
recurring droughts. Several parallel programs, including the Water
Resources Use Program (PRORIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public
irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use of
scarce water resources or to provide temporary drought relief assistance.
1.09      The second approach to the problems of rural development which
evolved in 1982, implied more attention to the security of tenure, the
quality of the soil and the availability of water on the farm. The special
rural programs were no longer to be integrated area by area, but considered
oa a state-wide basis along functional lines. A series of region-wide
sector programs has been worked out to support this approach. One of these
programs is a fifteen-year Federal Irrigation Program based on a
comprehensive regional policy framework and dealing with irrigation works
which are part of rural development projects.
D. Experience With Past Bank Lending
1.10      The Bank has made 35 loans, totalling US$2,248.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; supplemental
financing for US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans
for US$519.2 million for agroindustries; two for US$60.5 million for
livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
and 22, totalling US$862.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation and
rural development projects in the Nort%east,2/ in Minas Gerais and in the
North and Northwest. Completion and Project Performaace Audit Reports for
the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project
raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the
areas of environmental protection, community organization, and
strengthening of cooperatives. The recent Project Completion Report for
the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and small
farmers were capable of moving succX>sfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture. The ongoing Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project (Loan
1729-BR) is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by CODEVASF
in a seven-year period, by December 1986.
1.11      Ten of the Bank-fiaianced projects are POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976
2/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided iai the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



to 1983, all of the projects are still being executed except the Rio Grande
do Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 1195-BR), Ceara I Rural
Development Project (Loan 1488-BR), the Bahia I Rural Development Project
(Loan 1589-BR), and the Sergipe Rural Development Project (Loan 1714-BR).
Implementation has generally improved over the years, especially in project
plonning and agency coordination. Although no final evaluation results are
availabi, production and productivity increases in non-drought years have
been noted among farmers with secure land tenure in a number of projects.
Nonetheless, all of the projects have experienced implementation and
disbursement delays. A number of factors are responsible: the unusually
severe and prolonged 1978-83 drought; shortages and delays in counterpart
funding and rural credit provision; limited execution capacity for land
tenure improvement and small-scale irrigation activities; initial lags in
the generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers; weak
coordination between research and extension agencies; and limited
beneficiary participation in project planning and implementation. The lack
of unified planning and coordination for all the rural special programs
exacerbated these problems in some areas, leading to duplication of efforts
and competition for relatively scarce funds and trained personnel. When
possible, these problems have been addressed during the preparation of the
Northeast Rural Development Program.
1.12      As part of the Northeast Rural Development Program, the Board
approved in April 1985 the First and Second Northeast Rural Development
Projects in Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR).
The Third and Fourth Rural Development Projects for Bahia and Piaui have
been negotiated. Appraisals for the States of Ceara and haranhao have also
taken place and the three remaining projects for the States of Alagoas,
Paraiba and Minas Gerais are being prepared for Bank appraisal. Land
tenure improvement activities in the Northeast states have been planned
under the regionwide Land Tenure Improvement Project approved in June 1985
by the Executive Directors. These project activities have been planned
jointly and are considered by the Government to be part of the Northeast
Rural Development Program.
E. Irrigation in the Northeast
1.13      The National Irrigation Law of 19793/ defines national
irrigation policies, rights, obligations and institutional
responsibilities.  The Law distinguishes between -public' and  private
irrigation. Federal public irrigation systems in the Northeast are
planned, constructed and operated by the Sao Francisco River Valley
Development Company (CODEVASF) and the National Department of
Drought-Related Works (DNOCS). CODEVASF, a Government owned company
established in 1974 and run along private enterprise lines, is responsible
for the execution of major public irrigation systems in the Sao Francisco
Valley. DNOCS, established in 1945 as a Government agency and subordinated
to the Ministry of Interior until February 1986, is responsible for the
3/ Irrigation Law No. 6662 of June 25, 1979.



- 5 -
development of public irrigation elsewhere in the semi-arid Northeast. In
the last few years, the National Department of Sanitary Works (DNOS),
another Government agency established in 1940 and subordinated to the
Ministry of Urban Development and Environment until February 1986, has also
begun to develop irrigation projects in the Northeast. Private irrigation
projects are those carried out through private initiative with - or
without - Government assistance and incentives. Most of them are financed
with the help of the nation-wide Program for Irrigation of Flood Plains and
the Financing Program for Irrigation.
1.14      At present CODEVASF operates 18 irrigation projects with some
40,000 ha fully developed and 25,000 ha in various stages of construction.
DNOCS has 27 irrigation projects in operation, covering a total area of
about 26,100 ha. However, agricultural production in the irrigated
perimeters has been disappointing. The principal constraints to achieving
results originally projected have been the poor performance of executing
agencies and the erratic annual budgetary allocations to DNOCS and
CODEVASF, which tended to be related to the incidence and severity of the
droughts.
1.15      Cost recovery covers the full operation and maintenance costs of
the system, as well as part of the capital costs. Charges are levied on a
volume basis to cover operation and maintenance costs and on an area basis
to recover part of capital (para. 3.08).
1.16      The traumatic effects of the 1978-83 drought have caused the
Government to review its development policies, priorities and plans for the
Northeast. In the outcome of the review, a five-year Irrigation Program
for the Northeast was enacted by Decree on January 29, 1986. Its target is
quite ambitious: it proposes to increase the area under public and private
irrigation in the Northeast by one million hectares during the years
1986-90. Two weeks later, in order to streamline the decision-making and
speed up the preparation and execution of irrigation projects, the
President of the Republic appointed a "Minister of State Extraordinary for
Irrigation Affairs" for a term of three years. The appointment was made in
the Decree of February 12, 1986, instituting a three-year National
Irrigation Program and subordinating to the Minister the three Federal
irrigation agencies, DNOCS, DN0S and CODEVASF, with all personnel and other
resources. The Minister is being assisted and advised by an Executive
Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program. Responsibility for
irrigation components of rural development projects remains with SUDENE;
SUDENE will alco assist the Minister in managing private irrigation
matters.
II. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
Location
2.01      All proposed subprojects (Formoso A, Estreito, Sao
Desiderio/Barreiras Sul, Formosinho, Ceraima, Curaca, Manicoba and
Gorotuba) are within the Sao Francisco River Basin in Brazil's Northeast



- 6 -
(Map IBRD 19210). All are within the drought-prone area and contain
fertile soils, which are well suited for irrigation. Water availability
and quality would not be constraints for the project's requirements, and
the latter would have no adverse effects on downstream users. The existing
communication systems and transportation services are adequate to satisfy
the service demands to arise from the project's execution.
Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
2.02      CODEVASF holds title to all the land in the project area at
Formoso A, as well as in the rehabilitation perimeters, except Sao
Desiderio/Barreiras Sul where the land has already been sold to the small
settlers. However, CODEVASF's current policy is to divest itself of this
land, awarding titles to the present and future operators. Most perimeters
also have access to sizeable areas of non-irrigable land, which is also
frequently used for rainfed crops or livestock grazing or as woodlands.
2.03      Agricultural production in the rehabilitation perimeters is
diverse, and includes both irrigated and rainfed cropping. Rainfed
cropping is essentially limited to beans, maize or cassava and is
frequently carried out on irrigable land. Generally, both the level of
technology and resultant productivity are low, resulting in low-to-modest
yields. Much of the irrigable land is unused due to poor drainage or
inadequate irrigation infrastructure. Cropping intensity of the land
actually under irrigation varies from 100% in most of the perimeters to
over 140% in Sao Desiderio.
Agricultural Extension
2.04      CODEVASF technicians provide extension services to farmers in
four of the rehabilitation perimeters (Ceraima, Estreito, Sao Desiderio and
Formosinho). However, due to numerous bureaucratic tasks involving credit
applications, water charges and irrigation planning, CODEVASF agents spend
little time helping farmers to improve productivity. Personnel provided by
the Agricultural Cooperative of Cotia (COTIA), working under contract to
CODEVASF, provide extension services in the Curaca perimeter. COTIA staff
have been more successful in promoting adoption of improved,
higher yielding technology than CODEVASF staff. This is partly because
they are better organized and trained and have more experience. It is also
partly because there is better market access near Curaca for some of the
high-value crops produced there.4/ In two of the rehabilitation
perimeters (Gorotuba and Manicoba) no extension services are provided.
Agricultural Research
2.05      There is no research being carried out at any of the CODEVASF
perimeters included in the project. However, EMBRAPA, the federal agency
responsible for agricultural research, has developed recommendations for
irrigated production of most of the main crops now being grown in CODEVASF
perimeters. Further research in irrigated production is part of EMBRAPA's
ongoing program at other research centers in Brazil.
4/ This perimeter is located near Petrolina/Juazeiro.



B. Project Origin and Rationale
2.06      The proposed project is the result of a series of FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) missions which visited Brazil in 1983 and 1984
to assist the Government in identifying and formulating further public
irrigation projects. Preparation work has been carried out under FAO/CP
guidance by a local team from CODEVASF supported by private consultants.
Lessons and experience from two previous Bank irrigation projects in Brazil
(Loans 1153-BR and 1729-BR) have been incorporated in the design of the
project. The main features introduced to help address them are related to:
(i) adequate preparation, i.cluding specific attention to technical
features of each irrigation scheme; Cii) supervision of construction
through private consultant firms; (iii) technical assistance to CODEVASF in
management, operation and maintenance, irrigated agricultural production,
and water management at on-farm level; (iv) farmers participation in
operation and maintenance activities; and (v) agricultural extension to
farmers defined at an early plan stage.
2.07      The Federal Irrigation Program, established under the framework
of the Northeast Project, aims to reduce the risks of rainfed farming in
the region. These risks are the result of poor soils, erratic climate and
periodic multi-year droughts that have decimated regional agricultural
production in recent years. However, irrigation opportunities in the form
of adequate soils in proximity to reliable water sources are limited and
costs per beneficiary are higher than the costs obtained in projects aimed
mainly to stabilize rainfed subsistence agriculture. Nevertheless, where
irrigation opportunities are successfully developed, they can make a
substantial contribution to the regional economy, employment and
agricultural production, including flood control by permitting intensive
use of the local natural resources. A balance is, therefore, required
within the regional development strategy between relatively more costly
investments in irrigation and wider, lower-cost support for rainfed
agriculture.
2.08      While there are justified opportunities for viable future public
investments in public irrigation in the Northeast, present institutional
and production efficiency must be improved. The proposed project would
assist in the strengthening of CODEVASF's managerial and technical
capabilities and support specific solid investment plans, addressed mainly
to benefit small agricultural producers.
C. Project Objectives
2.09      The two major project objectives would be to improve the incomes
of about 9,200 rural families and increase agricultural production to
alleviate regional basic food deficits and to increase volumes available
for export. To achieve these objectives the project would: (a) increase
the economic return of past investments in seven areas where the irrigation
infrastructure is already built but where cropping intensity and yields
remain below acceptable levels; (b) develop new irrigation schemes on
public lands with expected high returns in Government investments;
(c) improve farm technology and provide farmers agricultural production and



-8-
social services; (d) strengthen CODEVASF's capacity to plan, construct, and
operate and maintain irrigation and drainage works; and (e) transfer to
farmers most of the responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of
internal irrigation and drainage networks. The Project objectives are
consistent with the Bank's strategy for the economically disadvantaged
Northeast.
2.10      The project would consist of:  (a) rehabilitation of seven
existing irrigated schemes; (b) construction of new irrigation scheme
covering a net area of 9,130 ha; (c) provision of the operation and
maintenance equipment and services required to sustain high levels of
productivity; (d) provision of the extension services to farm families to
help them become self-sustaining units; (e) establishment and operation of
social infrastructure; (f) provision of staff training and technical
assistance to CODEVASF; and (g) financing investment credit.
D. Project Description and Detailed Features
Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation Schemes
2.11      The project would rehabilitate seven of CODEVASF's 18 existing
irrigation schemes. (Annex 1 describes the existing infrastructure in the
seven perimeters, prevailing operational conditions and constraints, and
proposed project works.) The total net area covered by this component
would be about 19,730 ha, including 1,900 ha of new extensions to the
irrigated areas. These schemes were put into operation some ten years
ago. Defects in original designs or construction standards, inadequate
land preparation and farming practices, and unsatisfactory maintenance have
led to precarious water supply in some areas and to rising water tables in
others. Project works would consist of rehabilitation of common irrigation
and drainage infrastructure and on-farm upgrading through land-levelling,
soil amendments and field network improvements.  Sprinkler irrigation
systems would be installed in all the new irrigated areas. Previous
CODEVASF experience has shown that new farmers with little or no knowledge
of irrigation practices are more willing to assimilate the sprinkler
irrigation technology than the surface irrigation methods. The following
table summarizes the rehabilitation component proposed for Bank financing.
Table 2.1: Rehabilitated Irrigated Area
(in ha)
Extensions
Rehabilitated      to Irrigated
Perimeter                 Areas             Areas           Total
Sao Desiderio             1,840               160           2,000
Fstreito                  1,500             1,150           2,650
Curaca                    4,060               -             4,060
Manicoba                  4,400               -             4,400
Formosinho                  170               250             420
Ceraima                     690                70             760
Gorotuba                  5,170               270           5.440
Total        17,830             1,900          19,730



- 9 -
Construction of New Formoso A Irrigation Scheme
2.12      The Formoso A irrigation subproject would cover a net area of
9,130 ha, of which some 7,070 (or about 77Z) would be distributed among
1,800 small farmers each owning a 4-ha plot.   The remaining 2,060 ha would
belong to medium and large farmers and private enterprises that would
receive water at secondary canal level and develop their on-farm irrigation
systems. The project would provide the hydraulic infrastructure composed
of a 4,000 hp pumping station, a distribution system including conduits,
conveyance structures, regulating works and booster pumping stations, the
on-farm irrigation works, a surface drainage system, a rural road system
and an electrical network (Annex 2).
Provision of Operation and Maintenance Equipment and Services
2.13      This component would include the construction and equipping of
about six workshops, seven stores, offices, and acquisition of heavy
machinery and vehicles (para. 3.03). Incremental staff salaries and other
recurrent costs needed to operate both the new and rehabilitated schemes
during the seven-year project implementation period have also been included
in the costs estimates (Annex 3).
Provision of Extension Services to Farm Families
2.14       The project would finance incremental costs for the
implementation of extension activities. Such activities would be directed
towards farmers, farm wives and rural youth. In the Formoso A perimeter,
the Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of Bahia (EMATERBA),
or any other specialized agency acceptable to the Bank, would have
responsibility for extension. In the rehabilitation perimeters CODEVASF or
COTIA personnel would provide extension services. However, all perimeters
would adopt the same general extension methodology (Annex 4). As a
condition of effectiveness CODEVASF would sign an agreement with an
extension agency, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of
agricultural extension services in the Formoso A irrigation scheme.
Establishment and Operation of Social Infrastructure
2.15      The project would increase the access of the settled families to
social development services, including education, health care and housing.
At the rehabilitation perimeters 24 schools and 12 health posts would be
built or upgraded. At Formoso A six service centers for delivery of social
services would be installed. Each center would serve some 300 settler
families and would have a health post, a community center, an
administrative office and schools with a total of 18 classrooms to
accommodate the approximately 1,000 school-age children expected to live in
the catchement area of each service center. Each center would have a
supervisor and two maintenance staff. The project would provide
construction materials for the settlers to build their houses on farm
plots.



- 10 -
2.16      The project would also finance repairs to social infrastructure
of existing housing complexes, ard especially the renovation of schools and
health posts; operation and maintenance costs, including those of schools
and health posts; and the cost of a campaign against waterborne diseases in
the project area.
Provision of Staff Training and Technical Assistance to CODEVASF
2.17      The CODEVASF staff training and technical assistance program
would provide 1,600 CODEVASF staff with specialized technical, operational
and managerial skills necessary to implement CODEVASF's entire irrigation
, rogram (1986-1990). The main areas that would be covered by the program
- clude finance, organization, management, operation and maintenance,
project implementation, and production support activities (Annex 5).
CODEVASF has already prepared a detailed design of the staff-training
subcomponent and a draft of a FAO Technical Assistance Project document.
Condition of loan effectiveness would be that CODEVASF sign an agreement
with FAO, acceptable to the Bank.
Provision of Investment Credit
2.18      Medium- and long-term investment credit for farmers would be
available in both new and rehabilitation areas to purchase tractors, draft
animals and related tillage equipment, and to build sheds and on-farm grain
storage. Financing would cover up to 100% of the above goods required for
on-farm development with a maximum repayment period of 12 years, including
up to 6 years' grace. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger
than 4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Cooperatives would be
eligible if at least 70% of their members were small farmers who would
benefit directly from the proposed investment. The investment credit would
be channeled through the existing agencies of Banco do Brasil (BB) and
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). Credit norms would be those specified
in the Rural Credit Manual issued by the Central Bank. Extension agents
would assist farmers in formulating investment plans. Short-term
production credit (custeio) would be provided on a priority basis to
project beneficiaries by participating banks. During negotiations the
Government provided assurances that these criteria would be applied.
E. Project Cost Estimates
2.19      Total project cost over the seven-year investment period
(beginning in April 1986) are estimated at US$123.6 million, including a
foreign exchange cost of about US$48.6 million or about 39%, and taxes of
about US$11.2 million. Physical contingencies are equivalent to 12% of
baseline costs, while price contingencies amount to about 17% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 10% for the civil works under the Formoso A, Sao
Desiderio and Estreito subprojects; 15% for the remaining subprojects; 10%
for other construction; and 5% for equipment, vehicles, vehicle operation
and maintenance, and training. Price contingencies were estimated in terms
of US dollars based on international inflation rates of about 7.0% for 1986



- 11 -
and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5% annually
thereafter. It is assumed that periodic local currency devaluations,
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for the
difference between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation
rates. Project costs are summarized in Table 2.2, and annual phasing of
investments is shown in Annex 6.
Table 2.2: Total Project Cost
-  - --  ---- --US$ zmlio---
local     Foreigp    Total    ZForei        T
Fige    Base Gosts
A. New Irrigatimo Sd*e
Formso                           24.7      17.2       41.9       41           44
Subtotal NLa Irr47aion Sdwm          24.7      17.2       41.9      41           44
Sao Desidrio                      3.0       2.3        5.2       43           6
Estreito                          5.8       4.5       10.3       44           11
COram                             3.8       2.5        6.3       41           7
MmiLcoba                          2.2       1.7        3.9       43            4
ForsbinD                          0.6       0.4        1.0       41            1
Gera'",                           0.7       0.5        1.2       43            1
Gorotubn                          1.3       1.1        2.4       45           3
Subtotal Rebabilitation Schemes      17.4      13.0       30.4      43           32
C. Productio Support
Extefsim                          5.0       1.0        6.0       16            6
Ld Taitlirg                       0.8        _         0.8       -             1
Subtotal Production Support           5.8       1.0        6.8      14            7
D. Credit                             3.4       0.6        4.0      15            4
E. Social InvestInts                  2.7       1.6        4.3      38            5
F. Insitutioal BuLding
Staff Trainirg                    1.2       1.3        2.5       50           3
Techica.l Assistance              2.2       2.6        4.8       55           5
Subtotal Institutional Buildirg       3.4       3.9        7.3      53            8
Total Baseline Costs                 57.4      37.3       94.7      39          100
Physical Contien                  6.5       5.1       11.6       44           12
Price G nr  1es                  11.2       6.1       17.3       36           18
-uTAL PRDIEr  OSrS                   75.1      48.5      123.6      39          131



- 12 -
F. Implementation Schedule and Status of Engineering
Implementation Schedule
2.20      Project construction would begin in 1986 and be completed within
seven years. The schedule takes into account CODEVASF's capability to
carry out the farmers' settlement-in the new Formoso A perimeter and
interference of construction activities with cropping in the rehabilitation
components. The proposed implementation schedule is presented in Chart 1.
Status of Engineering
2.21      An international consulting firm prepared feasibility studies and
detailed engineering designs for the Formoso A irrigation subproject. Main
civil engineering works, including the pumping station and the main
conveyance canal were designed to serve an area of 27,000 ha. In March
1985, after it was decided to limit the maximum development of the
Formoso A project to about 10,000 ha, CODEVASF retained a local consulting
firm to review the overall concept, adjust the engineering designs, and
estimate construction cost. The results were satisfactory and, therefore,
under a new contract, the same firm completed bidding documents for the
construction, under ICB, of the main civil engineering works at the Formoso
A irrigation subproject.
2.22      The Sao Desiderio and Estreito rehabilitation schemes were
constructed by CODEVASF mainly on the basis of detailed engineering
documents prepared by international consultants twelve years ago. However,
project works were not constructed following strictly original designs, and
some were deleted because of budgetary restrictions. CODEVASF retained a
local consultant to compare the original designs with the actual situation
in the field, prepare detailed inventory of project rehabilitation works
requirements for both projects, and elaborate detailed engineering
designs. CODEVASF has also prepared detailed field inventories for the
remaining five rehabilitation schemes. CODEVASF provided the Bank with
detailed designs and specifications for the Sao Desiderio and Estreito
rehabilitation schemes and selected consultants acceptable to the Bank to
carry out the design of the remaining five rehabilitation schemes.
G. Financing Plan, Procurement, Disbursements, and On-lending Terms
Financing Plan
2.23      The proposed Bank loan of US$57.0 million equivalent would
finance 50% of the total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 100% of the
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and approximately 11% of local
costs. The loan would be for 15 years, including a three-year grace
period. The Bank loan would be madeto the Federative Repubilic of Brazil,
which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds
as necessary to complete the project. During negotiations the Government
provided evidence that counterpart funds for the first year of project
implementation had been included in its budget for 1986.



- 13 -
Procurement
2.24      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 2.3: Procurement Arrangement
(US$millions)
Project Element                      Procurement Method            Total Cost
None
ICB       LCB      Other   Required
Civil Engineering Works       26.9      43.5                          70.4
(10.8)   (17.4)                        (28.2)
Vehicles, Machinery and
Equipment                  22.8       1.9                         24.7
(17.2)    (1.5)                        (18.7)
Consultants                    3.3                  3.8                7.1
(3.3)               (3.8)              (7.1)
Training                                                     3.6       3.6
(1.4)    (1.4)
Investment Credit                                            4.0       4.0
(1.6)    (1.6)
Recurrent Expenditures in
Salaries and O&M                                         13.8     13.8
TOTAL                       53.0      45.4        3.8     21.4    123.6
(31.3)   (18.9)      (3.8)    (3.0)   (57.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be
financed by the Bank.
2.25      Irrigation and drainage civil works for the new Formoso A
subproject would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Since the civil works for the rehabilitation component are
dispersed and small, foreign contractors are not expected to bid but would
not be excluded from doing so; consequently, these works would be procured
through Local Competitive Bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank.
Irrigation equipment would be grouped into three separate contracts for
large pumping equipment (US$4.7 million), sprinkler irrigation equipment
(US$6.8 million) and pipes and fittings (US$5.6 million) to be awarded
through ICB. Transmission lines and electrical equipment would also be
acquired through ICB (US$4.4 million). O&M equipment would be grouped,
whenever possible, into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and would be
procured through ICB. A margin of preference equal to the lesser of 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties, and
import taxes, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Vehicles and
equipment (other than that to be procured through ICE, as explained above)
would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, up to an amount not exceeding US$1.9 million. All



- 14 -
civil works contracts over US$1.0 million and services and equipment
contracts over US$200,000 (about 70% of total procurement) would be subject
to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and award
proposals. Other contracts, which are expected to cover about 20% of the
value of works and 10% of the equipment value, would be subject to
selective post-award review.
2.26      Consultant services would be contracted In accordance with Bank
guidelines. Detailed engineering consultant costs are estimated at US$2.5
million for the seven rehabilitation subprojects. The cost of 224
man-months of construction management services for Formoso A, which would
be provided by a specialized firm, and the cost of vehicles, survey
equipment, local transportation and some other minor items would be about
US$1.6 million. The expatriate personnel input would comprise
senior-level, high-caliber expertise in the fields of irrigation
engineering, geotechnics, and operation and maintenance.
Disbursements
2.27      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against
categories presented in the table below:
Table 2.4:   Disbursements by Category
Allocation of      Percentage of
Loan Amount        Expenditures
(US$ million          to be
Category                        equivalent)          Financed
1.  Civil engineering works                   25.4               40%
2.  Vehicles, machinery and equipment         16.6               75%
3.  Consultants                                6.7              100%
4.  Training                                   1.3                   a/
5.  Investment credit                          1.4               40%
6.  Unallocated                                5.6
Total                      56.0
a/ 100% of expenditures for overseas training and 30% of expenditures for
local training.
2.28      The projected seven-and-one-half year disbursement period for
this project is based on the investment program and the local
administration analysis of the management to carry it out efficiently. The
regional disbursement profile for this type of project is ten years. The
first two Bank loans for CODEVASF projects disbursements required eight and
seven years, respectively. However, the proposed seven-and-one-half years
disbursement period would be realistic because (a) the administrative
structure already exists; and (b) most of the rehabilitation works (about
32% of base cost) are small subprojects which would be managed
simultaneously by three different regional CODEVASF directorates.



- 15 -
2.29      Disbursements for all eligible expenditures under US$50,000 would
be made against statements of expenditure certified by CODEVASF.
Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be
made available during project supervision. Standard documentation for
eligible expenditures over US$50,000 would be submitted to the Bank. In
order to reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to US$2.5
million. The Government could request the Bank to make advance payment in
US dollars from the Loan Account into this Special Account. Withdrawals in
cruzeiros from the Special Account, supported by statements of expenditure
and other required documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that
prevailed on the date of expenditure. The Central Bank would send the
corresponding withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then
replenish the Special Account. As conditions for disbursement CODEVASF
would: (a) prepare the economic analysis for the rehabilitation schemes of
Formosinho, Ceraima, Curaca, Manicoba and Gorotuba in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) demonstrate, to the Bank's satisfaction, that the
proposed investments for each scheme are economically justified.
Also, as a condition for disbursement of loan proceeds allocated to all
rehabilitation schemes, including Sao Desiderio and Estreito, CODEVASF
would establish at least one users' committee (para. 3.07) in each scheme.
On-Lending Terms
2.30      Following the February 28, 1986 financial and monetary reform,
the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy
for rural credit. This policy--which would provide part of the policy
framework for the proposed Second Agricultural Sector Loan--would be aimed
at maintaining interest rates that would be positive in real terms and
would fluctuate according to market conditions. Another important policy
objective would be to reduce credit subsidies substantially. There would
be a general agricultural interest rate, applicable to rural investment
credit operations outside the North and Northeast regions, equal to the
rate on commercial banks' certificates of deposit (Certificados de Deposito
Bancario, CDB), minus 10 percentage points. This rate would be adjusted
every six months, on March 1st and September 1st of each year, to a level
10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term
credit, the interest rate would be initially set at the level prevailing
for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and would remain
fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate
has been fixed at 10% and it is expected that, in subsequent periods, the
rate will fluctuate near 10% in real terms. The interest rates to be
applied to the Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed
project would be: 2 percentage points below the general rate, for
investments in sugarcane, cocoa, coffee and rubber; and 3 percentage points
below the general rate, for investments in irrigation works and related
on-farm equipment and facilities, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage
points below the general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in
1988 and thereafter. These rates represent a substantial improvement over
the ones prevailing until last February.



- 16 -
2.31      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
para. 2.30 above (c) each of the participating banks would provide monthly
information to the Bank on investment credit availability, demand and
lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be given by the
participating banks to allocations of short-term production credit to their
agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance the
working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new rural
interest policy referred to in para. 2.30 above would provide the basis for
an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the Government
on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in connection with
the Agricultural Credit and Export Project CLoan 2348-BR). This amendment
would also provide for an annual review of Brazil's agricultural credit
policy by the Bank and the Government. The signing of the above amendment
would be a condition of signing for the loan proposed in this report.
H. Environmental Impact
2.32      Schistosomiasis in the existing irrigation subprojects would be
reduced through an endemic disease-control program to be developed by the
the Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAN). Through this
campaign SUCAM would implement measures, aiming to reduce human exposure to
waterborne diseases. In addition, the drainage systems and the reduction
of seepage from water bodies would reduce the number of potential habitats
suitable for disease organisms and vectors. A condition of loan
effectiveness would be that CODEVASF sign an agreement with SUCAM
satisfactory to the Bank ensuring the implementation of the campaign
against waterborne diseases in the project area.
2.33      Extension agents would advise farmers on selection and use of
pesticides in accordance with Bank guidelines. Social extensionists would
also cooperate with the staff of SUCAM in the campaign against waterborne
diseases. Improved water and soil management would increase use of land
with good agricultural potential and thus relieve the pressure on marginal
land.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Framework and Management
3.01      Project implementation would begin in 1986 and would be completed
within seven years (para. 2.28). CODEVASF would be the implementing agency
for the project. CODEVASF, which operates under the Minister of Regions,
has a core of experienced staff. As a company, rather than as a Government
agency, it has more freedom in certain areas, such as in establishing
salaries, borrowing money, and participating financially in agroindustrial



- 17 -
enterprises. However, CODEVASF has little experience in carrying out
multi-faceted operations and has quantitative and qualitative limitations
at the middle-management level in supervising engineering consultants and
contractors. The project's technical assistance component (para. 2.17)
aims at giving CODEVASF the capability required for planning, executing,
and operating the project. The CODEVASF Settlement Manual outlines
criteria and procedures for selection and settlement of new farmers, which
are consistent with Bank policies on rural development. During
negotiations CODEVASF provided assurances that it shall carry out the
settlements program in accordance with the criteria and procedures
specified in the Settlement Manual approved by CODEVASF on July 22, 1983
and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02      The First, Second and Third Regional Directorates of GODEVASF
would be the units responsible for project implementation. In addition to
its overall coordination role, CODEVASF would directly operate and maintain
the major irrigation and drainage works. CODEVASF would provide most of
the personnel for the Extension and Management Services for the
rehabilitated subprojects and would negotiate a contract with EMATER-BA for
extension services in the new Formoso A irrigation subproject
(para. 2.14). As conditions for loan effectiveness, CODEVASF would:
(a) select internationally and retain a construction management firm to
assist CODEVASF with all construction phases of the Formoso A subproject;
(b) appoint qualified staff as Chiefs of the Districts of Bom Jesus de Lapa
and Sao Desiderio; (c) appoint at least three suitable, qualified
specialists within the Agricultural Development Unit of each regional
directorate involved in project implementation; (d) create a Rehabilitation
Unit in the Second Regional Directorate, to be responsible for the
construction of the rehabilitation works; and (e) appoint a high-level
resident engitneer to head the Rehabilitation Unit.
B. Operation and Maintenance
3.03      CODEVASF would directly operate and maintain all major irrigation
and drainage structures, and would organize the water users along tertiary
or quaternary canal to operate and maintain the internal irrigation and-
drainage network.   Within each perimeter CODEVASF would organize an
operation and maintenance division headed by a civil, mechanical or
agricultural engineer (depending on type of component); the engineer would
be directly responsible to the head of the perimeter. The division would
be structured into (a) an operational unit responsible for day-to-day
operation, including irrigation scheduling and water distribution; and
(b) a maintenance unit. Both units would be headed by qualified technical
staff in line with project demands. Annex 3 outlines details in the
organization for O&M, including staffing, energy consumption and repair
cost, and beneficiary participation. The State Road Department (DER) of
Bahia would be responsible for the maintenance of the road system at the
Formoso A Irrigation Subproject, while the Bahia Electricity Company
(COELBA) wouid build, operate and maintain the transmission lines and
electrical distribution systems required by the project. CODEVASr updated
its existinyg O&M guidelines and submitted them to the Bank for approval
during negotiations. As a condition of loan effectiveness CODEVASF would
sign agreements satisfactory to the Bank with DER and COELBA.



- 18 -
3.04      CODEVASF would build and maintain the schools and health post
buildings and bear the total cost of their operation for a period of seven
years while the Secretary of Education of Bahia and FSESP would provide
qualified teaching and health staff in sufficient numbers and the curricula
and guidelines for these facilities' operation and would assume
responsibility for the costs of their operation and maintenance at th' end
of the above seven-year period. During negotiations, CODEVASF agreed chat,
as a condition of loan effectiveness, it would sign agreements satisfactory
to the Bank with the Secretary of Education of the State of Bahia and
FSESP.
C. Farmers' Organizations
3.05      CODEVASF, since its origin, has been exclusively responsible for
the operation and maintenance of its irrigation and drainage networks.
However, it now recognizes that it needs to involve project beneficiaries
in its irrigation operation and maintenance activities. In order for them
to participate in operation and maintenance activities, CODEVASF would have
to form water user groups and train them in basic financing and water
management.
3.06      Water users along a tertiary or quaternary canal (sector) within
the system would form a committee. Each sector would cover about 60 ha.
Each committee would carry out three key functions: water allocation,
system maintenance, and water charges collection. To control water
allocation, committees would hire water charge collectors to work full time
opening and closing outlets and repairing part of the system. Maintenance
of canals and collectors drains would be done by the farmers mobilized by a
sectoral leader. For the routine canal cleaning the committees would
mobilize their members on a regular basis at the subsector level (areas
usually covering 20-30 ha). Water charges would be levied immediately
following the harvest by the collectors.
3.07      CODEVASF has discussed this new system with farmers in all
proposed project areas. The new approach has already been successfully
introduced in the Mandacaru perimeter, where operation and maintenance
costs have been reduced by almost 50%. During negotiations CODEVASF
provided assurances that it would organize project farmers into water
userst committees to assure responsibility for O&M activities, in
accorda-ice with statutes and a timetable satisfactory co the Bamnk.
D. Recovery of Project Cost
3.08       Until recently CODEVASF charged farmers only a small fraction of
the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and relied mainly on Government
allocations to operate its irrigation perimeters. Cost recovery through
water charges was established on March 29, 1984, through Decree 89.496
which regulates the National Irrigation Law. The Decree stipulates that
two charges shall be levied on public irrigation schemes: a volume-based
charge to recover O&M costs and an area-based charge to reflect the value
of public investment in off-farm infrastructure. In the case of small
farmers, current regulations permit CODEVASF to recover 100% of O&M costs



- 19 -
and public investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastructure
over a 50-year period. Under these regulations the initial investment is
revalued but without charging interest. Currently, in those schemes now
requiring rehabilitation works, CODEVASF is charging only 60% of its O&M
costs, in recognition of the diminished levels of service it is providing
to the users. During negotiations CODEVASF provided assurances that O&M
costs will be recovered in full by January 1, 1992, through successive
reductions in the above-mentioned rebates of the order of 15% during 1987,
30% during 1988, 50% during 1989, 75% during 1990, and 100% during 1991.
The effectiveness of water charge collections by CODEVASF varies from 45%
in projects located in the Second CODEVASF Regional Directorate to more
than 90% in the irrigation perimeters financed by the Bank in Lower Sao
Francisco (Loans 1153-BR and 1729-BR). During negotiations CODEVASF
provided assurance- that accounts receivable shall not exceed 15% of
CODEVASF's total water charges by January 1, 1989. Specifically, CODEVASF
intends to adopt the following measures to increase its ability to collect
water charges: (i) making the beneficiaries' land tenure rights contingent
on the payment of water charges; (ii) transferring to water users'
associations the responsibility for collecting the charges from their
individual members; (iii) carrying out educational campaigns among
irrigation beneficiaries; and (iv) proposing to the authorities that water
charges would be eligible for production credit financing.
3.09      In addition, the Government is entitled, purs-uant to Decree
90.991 of February 26, 1985, to recover from beneficiaries the cost of
public investments in land acquisition ar.d on-farm irrigation works over a
25-year payback period (including five years of grace), at 6% interest
without monetary correction.  During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that (a) Decree 90.991 would be modified to bring it in line
with the terms applicable to investment credit (para. 2.30 above); and (b)
these terms would thereafter apply to the recovery of all public investment
in land acquisition and construction of on-farm works under the project. A
condition of effectiveness would be the modification of Decree 90.991.
E. Monitoring
3.10      CODEVASF with technical advice from FAO has recently instituted a
monitoring system to provide the additional information needed for the
Regional Directorates to achieve higher production and productivity in the
irrigation districts. However, the monitoring system should be adapted to
the specific characteristics of the project so that during the construction
phase, it would provide information on: procurement, contractors'
coordination and supervision, quality control and inspection services,
contract administration, cost control, labor relations, construction
planning and schedule control. At the agricultural development phase the
system would shift its emphasis to the availability and suplly of
agricultural supplies, production support services and agricultural
credit. The feedback provided by the system would highlight problems and
suggest remedies; the information would also enable the Regional
Directorates to gain a better understanding of the farmers' reaction and
control the execution of activities as originally scheduled. Monthly
reports would be prepared for irrigation perimeter managers and quarterly
reports, including consolidated information, for the Regional Directorates.



- 20 -
F. Accounts and Auditing
3.11      The existing accounting and procedures in CODEVASF are
satisfactory. CODEVASF's accounts for the Sao Francisco I (Loan 1153-BR)
and Sao Francisco II (Loan 1729-BR) Irrigation Projects were audited by
independent auditors and were furnished to the Bank on time. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that CODEVASF would have
its accounts, including a separate account for the project, and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank; the audits
would be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each year.
IV. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Agricultural Production
Cropping Patterns
4.01      In the Formoso A subproject futu.e cropping patterns would be
based on traditional crops, such as cotton, maize and beans. These would
initially be the easiest to grow and market. Gradually, vegetable crops,
such as watermelons, pumpkins, onions and garlic, would be introduced; it
is expected that such higher-value crops will eventually occupy 25% of the
total irrigated area. As in many other irrigated perimeters, vegetable
crops would be grown after a main crop of cotton, maize or beans had been
harvested. As a resulL, farmers would achieve a cropping intensity of 150%
within five years of .entering the project.
4.02      In some of the rehabilitation perimeters, crop production is
already fairly well diversified, with vegetable production occupying about
40% of the cropping pattern. ':ith the addition of new land and increased
cropping intensity, vegetable production would decline to 30X, while at the
same time greatly increasing in total area.   The availability of markets
would be the main factor limiting vegetable production. Should additional
marketing opportunities develop, vegetable production could and almost
certainly would increase proportionately. However, the 30% estimate
represents a conservative projection for future cropping patterns.
Permanent fruit crops (citrus and bananas) would accouut for another 5%.
The remaining 65% would include beans, maize and cotton. Double cropping,
already well established, would increase and bring cropping intensity to
160Z at full development. This would be achieved in Year 5 of project
implementation in each perimeter.
Yields and Production
4.03      Yield increases would result primarily from the improved
irrigation network and the elimination of serious drainage problems. These
two factors currently limit yields to a fraction of potential. Projected
yield increases would also result from widespread adoption of better water



- 21 -
management practices and both mechanical and animal traction, resulting in
improved seedbed preparation and weed control. Other contributing factors
would be the adoption of improved seeds and higher levels of fertilizer
application. However, the estimated yields at full development are
considered conservative for irrigated standards. For example, the yields
for the three main crops would be: beans, 1,800 kg/ha; maize, 4,000 kg/ha;
and cotton 2,500 kg/ha. A three-fold increase in the area in crops coupled
with sizeable yield increases would result in substantial increases in
overall production (Annex 8).
Water Requirements and Availability
4.04      Potential evapotranspiration rates for the Formoso A, Sao
Desiderio, and Estreito schemes have been calculated by the Hargreaves
method, which gives annual totals almost 1,900 mm in Formoso A and around
1,700 - in Sao Desiderio and Estreito. Moisture deficits would occur
every month. Gross irrigation water demand would amount to 12,000
m3/ha/year in Sao Desiderio and 13,600 m3/ha/year in Formoso A.  Unit
irrigation requirements are based on the proposed cropping patterns and a
dependable rainfall of three out of four years (75% rainfall probability).
Unit irrigation efficiencies at farm level have been assumed at 75% for
sprinkler irrigation and 55% for gr-"vity irrigation. Water conveyance
efficiency would vary from 90% for the pipe systems to 75% for the canal
systems. Overall weighted efficiencies would range from about 44% in
Estreito and Sao Desiderio to about 61% in Formoso A.
4.05       All the irrigation schemes would have an assured supply of
water. The following table shows that water requirements for the Formoso
A, Sao Desiderio and Estreito irrigation schemes, as well as the minimum
flows available during the irrigation season. For the other schemes the
source of water is the Sao Francisco River, which minimum flow is 600
m3/sec. Nonagricultural uses include provision for small townships (150
liters/person/day) and sanitary flows in the rivers. Irrigation demand has
been based on an irrigation time of 20 hours/day during peak periods for
gravity irrigation and 16 hours (20 hours minus peak energy demand) for
sprinkler irrigation.
Table 4.1: Water Demand and Supply
(m3/sec)
Irrigation Scheme
Formoso       Sao Des iderio        Estreito
Water Demand
Irrigation                9.40              2.18                3.15
Townships                 0.00              0.02                0.05
Sanitary Flow                               0.05                0.50
Total                   9.40              2.25                3.70
Water Supply
Source of Water       Corrente River   Barreiros River        Estreito Res.
Minimum Flow             40.00              3.0                 5.00



- 22 -
Farm Size Distribution
4.06      CODEVASF organizes the farm structure in its irrigation
perimeters into three categories: (a) small individual holdings,
(b) medium-sized and large individual holdings, and (c) commercial
enterprises. In the existing irrigated areas small farms average 6 ha and
seldom exceed 8 ha. Following legal regulations established under Decree
90.991, CODEVASF would distribute at least 80% of all new irrigated areas
in 4-ha lots allowing for a larger number of families to benefit from the
public irrigation projects. The financial results that would be obtained
by farmers on 4-ha farms (Annex 8) show that each family would earn a
reasonable income.
4.07      Medium-sized individual holdings generally exceed 15 ha and large
individual holdings and commercial enterprise farms more than 30 .aa.
Medium and large farmers and commercial enterprises do not own their lands,
but enter into long-term lease contracts with CODEVASF, which can be
terminated if the land is not properly exploited; they carry out their own
on-farm development works and would pay water charges to recover full
operation and maintenance costs and 100% of capital costs.
4.08      During the first year of the project, CODEVASF would start the
implementation of the Formoso A, Sao Desiderio and Estreito schemes,
covering a total net area of 13,780 ha at full development. At Formoso A,
7,070 ha, or about 77% of the net project area, would be distributed among
small farmers in 4-ha plots. The remaining area, or about 2,060 ha, would
be allocated to medium and large farmers. Farm size distribution -without
project- and at full development" is shown in the table below for Sao
Desiderio and Estreito.
Table 4.2: Farm Size Distribution
Without Project                 At Full Development
Holdings          Area           Holdings         Area
(Z)  (No.)      (%)    (ha)      (Z)   (No.)    (%)    (ha)
SAO DESIDERIO
4.0 ha    19       61     13      244       27      101    20      404
4.1- 6.0 ha    79       262     81   1,495         71     262    75   1,495
6.1-10.0 ha  -    -   -    -                       -    -   -    -
10.1 ha     2        8      6      101        2        8     5      101
Total           100     331    100   1,840        100     371   100   2,000
ESTREITO
4.0 ha    -        -      -        -        62      297    45   1,188
4.1- 6.0 ha    54        96      39     576        20      96    22      576
6.1-10.0 ha    40        71     42      606        15      71    23      607
10.1        6       12     19      279        3       12    10     279
Total           100     179    100   1,461        100     476   100   2,650



- 23 -
4.09      The other five rehabilitation schemes represent a total area of
about 15,100 ha, of which 58% is currently being farmed by some 1,410 small
holders in an average farm size of 6.2 ha. About 22% of the area is in the
hands of medium and large individual and company holdings, averaging
39 ha. The remaining 20% would be distributed among small farmers in 4-ha
plots.
Farm Models
4.10      The effects of the project on agricultural production and farm
profitability are illustrated by two individual farm models for the
Formoso A perimeter and one subproject area model for each of the seven
rehabilitation perimeters. The two individual farm models estimate the
investment package required for settlers in an entirely new area. All of
these settlers will need a complete investment package to establish
themselves in farming. The seven rehabilitation models reflect existing
cropping patterns and levels of investment. They also assume a declining
proportion of area in high-value crops (para. 4.02). In the financial
analysis of all models, costs are included for land clearing (where
applicable), on-farm development, operation and maintenance of the
irrigation perimeter, and partial cost recovery of all Government-financed
civil works (Annex 8).
B. Marketing
4.11      The annual incremental production of maize (35,000 tons), beans
(20,000 tons) and rice (1,500 tons) would be marketed locally mainly
through small, private traders already active in the area. This would
offset consistent deficits in the states of Bahia and Pernambuco over
recent years. The Company for Regional Development of Bahia estimated that
production deficits in 1985 only in the State of Bahia reached 210,000 tons
for maize, 190,000 tons for beans and 260,000 tons for rice. Incremental
cotton production (18,000 tons/year) in semi-processed and processed form
would be utilized in the local textile industry and exported. Since the
region is a traditional cotton-growing area, marketing channels are well
established and processing and manufacturing capacity is adequate. The
annual incremental production of onions (38,000 tons), garlic (2,000 tons),
and fruits (94,000 tons) sold to local traders would be marketed in the
urban centers located within 800 km of the project perimeters, including
the large cities of Salvador, Recife, Belo Horizonte and Brasilia. The
relatively small incremental production could be easily absorbed in these
markets.
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01      The project would settle 2,200 landless families and
substantially increase the income of an additional 2,600 small-scale



- 24 -
farmers already settled in the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated.
Incomes of existing small-scale irrigation farmers are expected to increase
three-to-five times while those of the landless families (most of which now
earn less than US$330 annually per capita) eventually would increase about
eight-fold, reaching US$3,500 to US$5,000 per year in 1985 dollars upon
project completion. The project would also create about 4,400 man-years of
additional demand for hired labor, including permanent and part-time
employment.
B. Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.02      The economic rate of return has been estimated at about 15% for
the new irrigation scheme of Formoso A and at about 16% and 14%,
respectively, for the rehabilitation schemes of Sao Desiderio and
Estreito. Preliminary estimates for the other five rehabilitation schemes
show that their economic rate of return would be in the range of 14% to
18%. These results are based on the quantifiable benefits from crop
production in the areas allocated to small farmers. Taking into
consideration the different costs and internal rates of return of the
irrigation schemes, the overall rate of return of the project is estimated
at 15%.
5.03      The economic rates of return are based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  that the development of the various crops will follow projections
in the respective farm models and investment plans;
(b)  prices for traded commodities, including fertilizers, were
calculated according to Bank projections for 1985 in constant
international prices and adjusted for handling, processing, and
transportation costs to reach an average farmgate price; for
other products prevailing farmgate prices were used; production
costs associated with labor were adjusted to opportunity cost
estimates; family labor was considered to be 80% of the unskilled
market price; hired unskilled labor was estimated at 70% of its
market price. Other production costs were priced at local market
conditions on the grounds that this best reflects opportunity
costs, given the market structure and current Government
policies;
(c)  the period of analysis was 35 years; and
(d)  calculation of the economic rate of return includes all the
capital and recurrent costs, except those related to the
construction and operation of the social infrastructure and the
campaign against water-borne diseases.
5.04      Benefits have been calculated based on about 90% of project
cost. Components with intangible benefits, such as health, education,
housing and community centers, were not included in the economic
calculation; however, the least cost approach was applied to these as well
as all other components.



- 25 -
5.05      Sensitivity tests (Annex 10) showed that particular project
components are not sensitive to changes in costs. Civil engineering works
could increase up to 100% in the new Formoso A irrigation scheme and more
than 50% for the rehabilitation schemes, and the economic rate of return
could still remain above 12%. Likewise, project benefits could be reduced
Rehabilitation Scheme, and the economic rate of return would still be above
12%. A lag of about three years in achieving project benefits would be
required to cause the economic rates of return to drop to 12%, assuming
that the cost outlays would occur as planned.
C. Project Risks
5.06      The project would be difficult to implement.  CODEVASF has
limited experience in rehabilitation activities, and quantitative and
qualitative limitations at the middle-management level have hampered
CODEVASF in its supervision of engineering consultants and contractors in
other projects. However, considerable technical assistance and institution
strengthening is built into the project to help CODEVASF overcome present
shortcomings.
5.07      Sustained high yields and production cannot be achieved through
irrigation alone; they require that CODEVASF cooperate with the line
agencies responsible for assisting the farmers in the project area with
credit, extension services, and input supply. During project preparation
institutional weaknesses were identified and measures introduced to improve
institutional effectiveness and coordination arrangements.
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
Ca) the investment credit criteria described in para. 2.18 be applied
(para. 2.18);
(b) evidence that counterpart funds for the first year of project
implementation have been included in its budget for 1986
(para. 2.23);
(c) for the rural credit, the eligibility criteria, terms and
conditions, and reporting conditions would be applied as outlined
in para. 2.31;
{d) CODEVASF will enter into agreements with the Secretary of
Education of the State of Bahia and the Public Health Service
Foundation (FSESP) in respect to project areas to be brought
under irrigation and would modify or maintain, as the case may
be, similar agreements in respect to the rehabilitation areas as
outlined in para. 3.04;
(e) Decree 90.991 -would be modified to bring it in line with the
terms applicable to investment credit in the Northeast



- 26 -
(para. 3.09); and that these terms would thereafter apply to the
recovery of all public investment in land acquisition and
construction of o'n-farm works under the project;
(f) CODEVASF would have its accounts, including a separate account
for the project, and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and would be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each year (para. 3.11).
6.02      During negotiations, CODEVASF provided assurances that:
(a) it would sign an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with an
extension agency for the provision of agricultural extension
services to the farmers to be settled in the new Formoso A
irrigation scheme (para. 2.14);
(b) it would apply its Settlement Manual in the selection and
settlement of farmers, required to carry out the project (para.
3.01);
Cc) it has updated, in a manner satisfactory to the bank, its
existing O&M guideline (para. 3.03);
(d) it would organize project farmers into water user committees to
assure responsibility for O&M activities, in accordance with
statutes and a timetable satisfactory to Bank (para. 3.07); and
(e) it will maintain volume-based and area-based water charges in
accordance with Decree No. 89.496 (para. 3.08).
6.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) CODEVASF sign an agreement with an extension agency, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the provision of agricultural extension services
in the Formoso A irrigation scheme (para. 2.14);
(b) CODEVASF sign an agreement with FAO, acceptable to the Bank
(para. 2.17);
(c) CODEVASF sign an agreement with SUCAM satisfactory to the Bank
ensuring the implementation of the campaign against waterborne
diseases in the project area (para. 2.32);
(d) CODEVASF would present evidence that the measures addressed to
reinforce its capability to implement the project have been
carried out as specified (para. 3.02);
(a) CODEVASF sign agreements satisfactory to the Bank with DER and
COELBA (para. 3.03), FSEBP and the Secretary of Education of the
State of Bahia (para. 3.04); and
(f)  the Government modify Decree 90.991 as outlined in para. 3.09.



- 27 -
6.04      As conditions for disbursement for the rehabilitation schemes of
Formosinho, Ceraima, Curaca, Manicoba and Gorotuba, CODEVASF would prepare
economic analyses and demonstrate to the Bank's satisfaction that the
proposed investment for each scheme is economically justified. For
all rehabilitation schemes, including Sao Desiderio and Estreito, CODEVASF
would establish at least one users' committee in each scheme (para. 2.29).
6.05      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$57.0 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3-year grace period.
May 21, 1986



- 28-                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works under the Rehabilitation Component
General
1.        The rehabilitation component would:  (a) increase returns from
already equipped, but presently underutilized, irrigation perimeters
through removal of physical and operational constraints; (b) increase
farmer participation in operation and maintenance; and (c) improve
agricultural support services. Wherever possible, the project would extend
the irrigated area to fully use the existing infrastructure. Proposed
investments would rehabilitate six irrigation perimeters in Bahia (Sao
Desiderio, Estreito, Curaca, Manicoba, Formosinho and Ceraima) and one in
Minas Gerais (Gorotuba), covering a total net area of 19,730 ha, including
1,910 ha of new lands (Table 1).
2.        All perimeters lie within the drought polygon on the Northeast,
which is characterized by monthly temperatures of 210 to 27aC and total
annual sunshine hours of around 2,500. Wind speeds average about 2 m/sec
but may increase to 4 m/sec and above during the months of August to
October, as is the case in Ceraima and Estreito. Open pan evaporation
ranges from 1,500 mm to 2,000 mm per annum. Mean annual rainfall,
concentrated in five-month periods, varies from 800 mm in Gorotuba to
450 mm in Curaca.
3.        Undependable rainfall is the major rainfed agricultural
production constraint in the project area. Since 1900 there have been 12
drought periods, the most recent of which occurred in 1979-83. Besides, in
years of normal rainfall the erratic distribution of rainfall over the
growing season could also seriously damage agricultural production. Cotton
and subsistence crops are the crops hardest hit by these severe climatic
conditions. Daily rainfall records were used on a computerized model to
develop probabilities of soil moisture availability related to
water-holding capacity. These were then matched with the requirement of
beans and maize for six different stations distributed over the project
area. The results of the analysis show that for beans (average growing
period of 80 days), the probability of complete production failure in a
year varies from 95-38%, while maize (average growing period of 120 days)
varies from 98-44%, depending on the location of each specific station.
4.        The Formoso A and Formosinho subprojects, in the southwest of
Bahia, are linked by ferry to Bom Jesus de Lapa, the main commercial center
of the area and from there connected by roads, partly asphalted, to
Guanambi, Victoria de la Conquista, Montes Claros, Salvador (700 km) and
Belo Horizonte (970). The Sao Desiderio subproject in the extreme west of



- 29 -                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Bahia is close to the city of Barreirasl/ and it is linked by asphalt
roads to Brasilia (660 km) and Salvador (880 km).  The Estreito subproject
in the extreme south of Bahia on the border with Minas Gerais, is close to
the city of Espinoza. Asphalt roads lead to Montes Claros and Belo
Horizonte (710 km). A railway links the subproject area to Salvador (770
km).  About 75 km north of Espinoza and Estreito, near Guanambi lies the
Ceraima subproject; and about 160 km south, halfway between Espinoza and
Montes Claros the Gorotuba subproject. The two remaining subprojects
Curaca and Manicoba are located at 70 km and 40 km, respectively, from the
rapidly growing cities of Juazeiro (Bahia) and Petrolina (Pernambuco). The
areas are linked by railroad and asphalt roads to Salvador (580 km).
Water Resources
5.        The Sao Francisco River and some of its main tributaries will be
the source of surface water for the eight irrigation subprojects. Water
availability will not be a constraint for irrigated agricultural
development, since the maximum water demands will represent only a small
fraction of the minimum available flows. Water quality is also
satisfactory; water samples collected at the end of the dry season indicate
good quality water with electrical conductivities varying from 80 micromhos
per centimeter in Formoso to 300 micromhos per centimeter in Sao Desiderio
and low sodium absorbtion rates.
Soils and Land Use
6.        The perimeters contain fertile soils, well suited for irrigation,
with a wide variety of physical and chemical characteristics. The largest
proportions are latosols, usually of light to medium texture, deep and
fairly free draining. Substantial amounts of alluvial soil are found
closer to rivers. Limitations on agricultural use usually arise from low
fertility and/or weak structure. Some areas are either so porous as to
require sprinkler irrigation or are hydromorphic and suitable only for
flood irrigated rice. The topography of the irrigated area is generally
smoothly undulating with slopes of up to 3Z. However, slopes of 3 to 6%
have been observed in about 12% of the Estreito and Sao Desiderio areas,
necessitating sprinkler irrigation. In addition, deficiencies in water use
management, have led to rising water tables and salinization in part of the
subproject areas. The soils of both perimeters were mapped at scales
ranging from 1:2,000 to 1:10,000, and their irrigated lands evaluated
following the Irrigation Suitability Classification of the US Bureau of
Reclamation, as shown in the Table 2. Land use in the seven rehabilitation
projects is shown in Table 3.
1/   The city of Barreiras is a commercial center and pole of economic
expansion due to recent spread of large-scale rainfed soybean
production into the nearby upper plateau of western Bahia.



- 30 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
7.        Agricultural production in the rehabilitation perimeters is
diverse, and includes both irrigated and rainfed cropping. The latter is
essentially limited to beans, maize or cassava and is frequently carried
out on irrigable land. Generally, both the level of technology and
resultant productivity are low, resulting in low to mDdest yields. The
most frequently used modern practices are improved seeds (for certain cash
crops) insecticides, and mechanical land preparation. The existing
cropping patterns, yield levels, and production for two of the seven
perimeters are shown in Table 4.
The Rehabilitation Program
8.        Although each perimeter has its own characteristics, they have
certain problems in common, arising mainly from four sources:
(a) defects in original designs or construction standards for common
irrigation and drainage works;
(b) inadequate on-farm land preparation and works;
(c) unsatisfactory maintenance of project facilities; and
(d)  incorrect on-farm practices.
The following paragraphs give a summary description of the proposed
rehabilitation subprojects:
Sao Desiderio
9.        The project consists of two sub-areas--Sao Desiderio and
Barreiros Sul-originally conceived as two separate projects, but later
combined into one scheme. Water is diverted from the Sao Desiderio River
into a 41.6 km main canal and 68.3 km distribution network. About 1,920
net ha are presently equipped for surface (mainly furrow) irrigation, only
63% of which is actually farmed. The project would rehabilitate common
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and upgrade on-farm operating
conditions through land levelling, soil amendments and field network
improvement. The latter comprises redesign of on-farm gravity irrigation
systems on 1,640 ha and provision of sprinkler irrigation for 200 ha of
difficult topography and relatively high infiltration rates. About 75 ha
of low-lying saline lands subject to flooding would be abandoned and an
additional 160 ha of new land would be incorporated under sprinkler
irrigation. The total future net area would amount to 2,000 ha. Table 5
details the existing infrastructure, prevailing operating conditions and
proposed works under the rehabilitation component; implementation costs of
the Sao Desiderio irrigation scheme are shown in Table 6.
Estreito
10.       The proposed Estreito project is intended to irrigate a net area
of 2,650 ha at full development. The perimeter consists of three sub-areas
which are currently at different stages of development and partly under
productian. The table below shows the present and future, with project
situation, and outlines major project components.



- 31 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
Project Sectors
(in ha)
Estreito    Estreito   Estreito
Status                                 I            II        III        Total
1. Present Situation
Total gross area                  440        530        700         1670
Net area equipped                400         450        650         1500
Net area cultivated               230        290        410         930
2. Future With Project
Total gross area                 1050        530       1360        2940
Net area equipped                 950        450       1250        2650
Net area cultivated               950        450       1250        2650
3. Project Components
3.1 Rehabilitation
-gravity irrigated area           400        -          650         1050
-change gravity to sprinkler       -         450        -            450
3.2 New areas
-gravity irrigated area           130        -          600         730
-sprinkler irrigated              420                   -           420
_1.       At present all areas are irrigated by gravity (furrows), even
though original designs called for sprinkler irrigation in Estreito II
because of high infiltration rates and/or difficult topography. The
distribution system in this area consists of pressure pipes (7.5 kg/cm2),
and the proposed Bank project would finance the conversion of this area to
sprinkler irrigation. Sprinkler irrigation has also been proposed for
420 ha of light soils and with slopes up to 5Z in Estreito I. All the
remaining area would be gravity irrigated.
12.       Estreito I and II receive their water directly from the Estreito
Reservoir (75.6 X 106 m3), the first by gravity and the second through
pumping from the Estreito I network. Estreito III pumps water directly
from a lagoon (Lagoa Grande) which in turn would be supplied from the
Estreito Reservoir through the main canal, return flows from Estreito I
and II, and directly from its own watershed, Mandioca Creek. Details on
existing project infrastructure, constraints and proposed works are
summarized in Table 7.  Implementation costs of the Estreito irrigation
scheme are shown in Table 8.



-32-                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
Curaca
13.       The perimeter covers a net area of about 4,060 ha, of which about
2,000 ha have been equipped for small-farmer operation (average size about
8 ha) and 2,060 ha for medium and large private. enterprise.  Only about
2,300 ha are presently under cultivation. Under the proposed
rehabilitation project, 1,000 ha (originally considered for private
enterprise but not yet occupied) would be developed for settlement with
small farmers in 4 ha lots.
14.       The project perimeter consists of two sub-areas, BB1 and BB2 of
1,060 ha 3,000 ha, respectively, each served by a main pumping station on
the Sao Francisco River. BB1 has two additional pumping stations in
series, and BB2 nine additional pumping stations in series to serve their
respective areas. The entire system is operated manually, which even with
the good existing radio communication system, results extremely difficult.
Operational water losses are high. The proposed project would provide full
automatization of operation for pumping stations and main canals. Tables 9
and 10 summarize the existing infrastructure, prevailing constraints, and
pro,-osed project components.
Manicoba
15.       The Manicoba perimeter has a net equipped area of 4,400 ha, of
which 1,914 ha are occupied by small holders on farms that u.erage 8 ha
farms. The remaining area was originally considered for medium-size
private enterprise (average 50 ha). About 2,350 ha are actually under
irrigation. Except for some private entrepreneurs who have installed
sprinkler irrigation, the area has been equipped for furrow irrigation.
CODEVASF proposes to expand the social sector, settling small holders with
4 ha each on an additional 1,000 ha, previously programmed for private
sector development, but not yet occupied.
16.       The project pumps water from the Sao Francisco River and has two
additional pumping stations in series to serve the entire area. All
equipment is operated manually. The pumping equipment has been recently
overhauled and is in satisfactory operating condition. Table 11 shows pump
characteristics and distribution. Table 12 summarizes the existing
irrigation infrastructure, prevailing constraints, and proposed project
components.
Formosinho
17.       Formosinho is a small project which would cover a net area of
only 420 ha at full development. Nine small farmers have already been
settled on 90 ha and 80 ha assigned to the Empresa Sementes Formoso S.A.
The proposed project would develop 250 additional hectares for small holder
farmers with 4 ha each.
18.       Existing project infrastructure includes a main pumping station
(Q-0.45m3/s, H-25m) on the Formoso River, a 3 km trapezoidal concrete-lined



- 33 -                   ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
canal and an 11.8 km distributary network of elevated, semi-circular and
precast canalettes. The system has been designed for furrow irrigation
even though the Empresa Sementes Formoso S.A. has installed sprinklers inl
some of its area. The pumping station, consequence of normal wear, needs
an overhaul of its mechanical and electrical equipment. The main canal
needs interceptor drains in some areas, sealing of joints and repair r*f
some concrete slabs. Slopes require protection on embankment sides.
Although specified in detailed designs, the surface drainage network has
not been constructed, causing serious problems of water logging. On-farm
works have only been precariously done, and the whole area requires land
levelling and preparation.
19.       Th2 proposed project would comprise the following main
components: improvement of mechanical and electrical conditions of the
pumping station; rehabilitation of 3 km of main canal, including
sealing of joints, replacement of concrete slabs, construction
of interceptor drains and protection of canal embankments; construction of
a 13-km collector drain for evacuation of surface waters; rehabilitation
and surfacing of 15 km of access and service roads; on-farm development of
250 ha including land levelling soil amendments, on-farm irrigation canals
and surface drains.
Ceraima
20.       The project area has a net area of 690 ha, which could be
expanded by an additional 70 ha. The entire area has been assigned to
small-holder farmers with an average farm size of about 7 ha. Water is
distributed from the Ceraima reservoir (56 X 106m3) throughout the proje-t
area by gravity for furrow and basin irrigation. Headworks consist of
Ceraima Dam and a 106 m gallery (Qma ' l m3/s). A 10.6 km trapezoidal
concrete-lined main canal with an in tial capaci y of 1 m3/sec delivers the
water to the secondary and terciary networks.  These consist of 29 km of
semi-circular, precast and elevated concrete canalettes. The drainage
network comprises 8.6 km of main drains and 26.5 km of secondary
collectors. About 45 km of access and service roads serve the area.
21.       The main problems affecting agricultural production in the
project area relate to: (a) poor on-farm development because of partial
land levelling, inadequate on-farm canals and lack of on-farm surface
drains; and (b) drainage problems. The main collector drain has to be
deepened to be able to evacuate the excess of water. This was originally
foreseen in designs but not implemented accordingly when excavation in rock
was required.
22.       The project would rehabilitate existing works and include an
additional 73 ha to be settled with 4 ha small-holder farmers. Project
works would include:
-- Rock fill (4,000 m3) at spillway of Ceraima reservoir.
-    Rehabilitation of gates at damsite and provision of electrical
control.
-    Rehabilitation of main canal, replacement of damaged concrete
slabs and sealing of joints.



- 34 -ANEI
Page 7 of 7
Installation of 14 Neyrpic type gates in the canal network.
Construction of 1,000 m of terciary canal to serve the new  area.
On-farm development on 70 ha of new land and rehabilitation on
684 ha.
Gorotuba
23.       The project present'y covers a net area of 5,170 ha, most of
which is being irrigated. Small holders occupy 1,910 ha (average size 8
ha) and medium and large-scale enterprise farm the remaining of the area
under production or 2,480 ha. The proposed Bank project would, in addition
to rehabilitation of existing project infrastructure and on-farm
improvements, develop 270 ha of new lands for irrigation and settlement of
small farmers in 4 ha lots. The existing project infrastructure comprises
the Bico da Pedra reservoir (705 X 106 m3) on the Gorotruba river, 24 km of
trapezoidal concrete-lined main canal (initial capacity 6 m3/sec) and 103
elevated precast semi-circular concrete canalettes. In addition, the
project has 136 km of collector drains and 318 km of access and service
roads.
24.       The project is presently fully operational but requires
rehabilitation of structures and on-farm features. The main canal shows
seepage losses, which in the past have caused serious damage in fill
areas. One main control gate, halfway downstream on the main canal, is too
large in size to regulate small flows and should be replaced by a modulated
one to improve operational efficiency. The irrigation network has been
operating for about ten years and needs sealing of canalette joints. The
gradient of canalettes should be corrected in a few areas. About 50% of
the collector drains are clogged, causing rising water tables in adjacent
areas. About 35% of the road network needs rehabilitation and surfacing.
At farm level problems relate mainly to alignment and lining of on-farm
canals and soil fertility. About 120 ha require land leveling to improve
irrigation efficiency.
25.       The project would comprise the following me-in components:
-    provision of electrical controls for gates at damsite;
-   rehabilitation of main canal, including replacement of some
concrete slabs and impermeabilization of canal joints;
-    installation of a modular gate on the main canal;
-   rehabilitation of canalette network, including sealing of joints
and correction of gradients in a small area;
-    cleaning of 10 km of collector drains;
-   rehabilitation of 110 km of access and service roads; and
-   river training works mainly deepening and straightening of the
riverbed.
On-farm development would include:
-    lining of 80 km of on-farm canals;
-   land leveling on 120 ha;
-    soil amendments for 1,740 ha; and
-   on-farm development for 273 ha of new land.



- 35 -
ANUI
BAZIL                                                  TMbe  I
N,OF  Ng DTEnF    PEDRM
UPPU RD MM2D   SAO FRWIS0  IRIGATII  WM=
Tab]  1:              d    whi l  at
Sao Desiderlo   Estreito   Curaca   Mabiroba  Foruizh       Ceraim   Gorotubs  Total
1. Location  11
State                  Baia BMda                  Ba  R a            Bib         Bidl   mJ-ra        -
D. Regmu  XEVA9'               211           2111       3 E       3 ER        21R         2 ER    11          -
2. Total Net Areas (ha)
2.1 Prent situation
Area Equlppal               1917          1497       4060      438          170         684      5171     17897
Area Ctltivated 2/           1209          932       2277      2327         170         448      3622     10985
2.2 Future With Project
Area EqullVed               2003          2645       4060      438          420         757      5444     19727
Area Cldtivatal             2003          2645       4060      4398         420         757      5444     19727
3. Project  Gments
3.1 eambilitation
Gravity Irrigated Arm        1642 3/      1047       4060      4398         170         684      5171     17172 31
Chae Gravity t SprIik1er  200              450        -         -           -           -         -         650
3.2 New Areas
Gravity Irripted             -             728        -         -           250          73       273      1324
Spridder Irrigaed            161           420       -          -           -           -         -         581
1/ See alm Map IBID 19210.
2/ In 1984/85.
S/ 75 ha of aE u sali   Ia: s, subject to floodig, wild be alsrlokd, anl 200 ha daa to spr dtker irrigation.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Tables 2 and 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 2: Land Classification in Sao Desiderio and Estreito
(USBR Standards) 1/
Irrigation Class            Sao Desiderio            Estreito
ha       Z            ha     z
1                      10       0            -      -
2                     920      41         2,430     82
3                   1.320      59           540     18
Total          2,250      100        2,970    100
Table 3: Land Use in the Rehabilitation Perimeters
Net         Now in       Irrigable
Gross        Irrigable      Irrigated        Land
Perimeter                 Area             Area         Crops          in Use
ha-~             -            %
Ceraima                      850            760           680           90
Curaca                     4,550         4,060          1,690           42
Estreito                   2,975          2,650         1,060           40
Formosinho                   470            420           200           48
Gorutuba                   6,120          5,440          1,630          30
Manicoba                   4,930          4,400         1,450           33
Sao Desiderio/
Barreiras Sul            2,255         2,000          1,710           85
Total               22,150        19,730          8,420           43
1/  Class 1 lands are the most suitable for irrigation; Class 6 lands are
the lowest.
>~~~~~~4 Zfe



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 4:    Current Agricultural Production in Estreito and Sao Desiderio
Estreito             Sao Desiderio/Barreiras Sul
CROP                Area   Yield   Production    Area   Yield   Production
(ha)  (Kg/ha)     (t)         (ha)  (Kg/ha)     (t)
RAINFED:
P. Cotton          654      180      118            -       -
Beans              218      150       33            -       -         -
IRRIGATED:
Rice                 -        -        -         410   1,400        574
Garlic                                             10   2,000        20
P. Cotton        1,062   1,008    1,070             -       -         -
Pumpkin              -        -        -          40  12,000        480
Beans              340      735      250         500      800       400
Maize                -        -        -          500   1,500       750
Onions               -        -        -          50  12,000        600
Watermelon           -        -        -          200  16,000     3,200
Total         2,274                         1,710
Source: Hydros Report, Annex 3D, Table 3.12D, and Annex4, P-Al, June 1985



-OIS  EWRAL DLEMW   F0P
U  ER AND HME SWO iRWM            IRLRIGAN  :rw
San Desiderio: Exs1ti!z Project Infrastructure, Coutrainta aod Prowsed Rehabittatim  ad   E taiac  Ib*s
IEMI   & KADM               IRIGATN( WflC                   MAD.M                       M-FAN4 EEVELPH. fF *-
1. EXSUIM           -Concrete diversion weir      -63 km of elevated sm-       40.5 Im of collector           1917 he prWarsi for         55.5 km of cs  ad
LNlASMXJl          aicross the Sao lsi&rio       circular anid precast        drains.                        furrow irripton,            service roads.
River.                       concrete cAnals                                             pertly contcur irros..
Lu2&; h.6.70 m.              (canalettes) R-0.20 050m
-Trapezoidal concrete        -5.3 In l1w presare
Uned main cmaW.              under grmd concrete
i-1.6 kb, initial            pipe.
capacity 2.5m3/sec.
2. OPERAnNG         -ladworks in gad              -Filtration thr&x,C          -Chokirg and erosion in        -Inadseuate and             -Roads deterioratal due
CONDMcL   AND        opratirg axdition.           canal Joints.                dralin.                        inomuplete lan&-leveling    to lack of mrntenia.
ilRA XIN1            -Seepap thruth joints        -Defective canalette          -Udnirsized culverts.         and preparation.
and lack of drains           gradients.                                                  -Inaldequate selection of
endaners stability of        -Insufficient tertlary                                      irrigatin nethxl.
main canal ermbankents.      canalettes for presently                                    -alinization of 75ha of
-imufficlent control         equipped area.                                              lowland.                                                             °°
structures.                  -lefective canal                                            -Lack of on-famI
-Canal damp due to           offtakes.                                                   distribtion structures.
mnersizal culverts for       -Could be expanfed for                                      -In general onfarm
cross drainage.              inclusion of addittonal                                     develop!nt only
161 ha.                                                    partially irplmented.
3. PF0g.D           -Rehabilitation of 39011      -flehabilitatton of 1270      -Cleaninl of 40.5 km of       -Gpridrler eqdipment for    -Rehahilitation anl
PWEr WOW            of canal Joints.              m of canalette joints.        collector drains.             161 ha of nEwly             surfacifg of 55.5 km of
-Istaltation of 15.3 km     -Weleyling of 3 km of         -20,402 of rockfUil for       Irrigated land, and 200      access amd service rods
of sul3urface drains         caalette gradients.           erosion control in            ha forerly under
alorg rNtin canal to         -Construction of 3 km nf      drains,                       gravity irriation.
control ewentual             additional tertiaries         -Installations of             -Relevelirg aid land
filtration.                  (R-0.30s),                    additional ailverts.          praparatton on 125 ha
-25 km of interceptor        -Adduction, reservoir                                       for rtee production.
drains above main canal,     and 8 ptaqirK stations                                      -fhabilitation of
-25 km of side drain.        (.30/I sec if50) for                                        on-farm works on 1517
-Increasirg canal            200 ha total (8 separate                                    ha, inclulirg leveltrg,
capacity in 27 o,            areas) to be change  to                                     reconsttuction of
-27 kn of protection         aprtnkler irrigation.                                       on-fanm Lrrigation and
fence.                       -Adduction, rewrvoir                                        drainage Yorks.
-Installatton of weun        and seven pemqirg                                           -Exclusion of 75ha
control stuctures (bioo      stations (Q=301 I/sec                                       Iailaida.
de [ito).                   hI50n) for sprinkler
-Construction 3 bridges.     irrigation of 161 ha ncw
-Construction byAss          Laid. r1
Darreiras reservoir.        -Improvement of  nal                                                                                                         M
off-tacs,.



hatretto 11             IIWMU( & 6IFfUG             IMIWUGlN tEIfri                 IUAINMF                    (N4F-Rl [EW2flM              Wm
I.fXIRfnN           - Puqirg stalton: 3+1        -7.5 kg/m2 prswa     pipe    -24.2 Iln of collector        -450 IH dedvelojd for      -16 In of acces and
IUUR NCIIIU.        pM"s Itll;  160 1/s          distrlhutIor network: I1     draftrs.                      gravity Irrigation         service  uales.
ech; S5 IFP - 150 KVA.       Ib.3 In.                                                   irriptnn.
Reaervoir YiO Y3
2. (FWR NrIM        -Eatiafiatory aerattM        -41igh premmwre netwdork       rairm  prtially dmkal       -h f area Rlnald  e         -Aces ard wvice meds
au fium  MA)        conittlorn.                  towd a  1w prweau            cid clqzpi.                   sprintler irripted a        of mccaw and trwice
UMiMlAUIN                                        systm.                                                     origitnlly conceve.         rtls requtre
rehabiUtation.
3. PWRIS+D                                       -tinter  qep to              -Cleanilrn  A Ri  km of        Ot-farm eprinkler          -AhtMUtatimn of 16 km
IwiECT lIKS Wurware pipe etwrk                                                druim.                        eiulpnd fnr 450 ha.         nf ams ad trwics
for epritJler                                                                         rom-.
Irrigation.
Ftrelto Ill
1. PCIMSNC          -ftpitr etattin at           -11.5 In marletta            -16.9 b col lctor             -47 Ih  parttally           -40N2 km of Acceu ad
INFRASWEf           la"G (rane (4+1 pzsp,        network.                     draitm.-alnSw nmtwnrk         develops.                   service reds and 8.5 km
IX) I/e each, H * 28.hw                                  prtthily cltrd.                                          of win roads.
15U HP) reservoir 4900
-in inal, 1.2 m3/sc
6.8 In
2.  FRATIIC         -+kin  cnal tedb              -lefoctive caalette                                       -Oi-farn wirk hau to he    PW   A  In operatirg
QWlfTltB MID        rehabLittation d             guradients.                                               treon, Inclutiii  Lmi        cndltfon.I
GWhAIMM             slavld be extentd  to         -Etqwnulon of seramdary                                   clearing, lewelirg ard                                                              a.
ur.e total potential        rstwork to wrwe total                                      arifrm c. rru!d                                                                     -
area.                        pntential area npede.                                     draeins.
3. PFIVSD           -Rehabtitatlon sain          -Correctinn of cmnlette     -Clearting of 3.0 of          -econstnctIon of            -fupston of rosd
PlEJCf hUG          cenal: P.etctinm             gradilents-14(fl.            collectnr drain.              on-farm wtrds on 647 ha.    netiuak in tie  w area:
qtpduct IOOc%; reqair      -Owutructlon of 521) m       -Coratntctinon of 18.8 In     -lani clenring 650 ha       6.7 kst main and 33 km
of craml off-t;s,           of additimnl camlette        of new cnllectnr drafns       aid on-farm develqmnt       servtce rads.
lzqanenIllatlnn of          for presently ejidpped       for new 600 ha area.          on 610 ha of new lnad.
25700 a of col joints       aree.
-ihtemu1on of irnl: 2.8     -lq.erwaliuatlon of
km for irriptin of          30U4n of cmlette
Almittmnal hI) hI.           jlotts.
-CIOtruction at             -Owtcticc  of 161O
Parshal I Fue.             aeMitlana canAlettes
aid stnicturm for 6110
addittional ha.
IM0 M |
N  



- 42 -                                          ANNEXl
TabLe R
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER ANID MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estreito Irrigation Scheme - Implementation Costs
letwtl ImcS.dt.q Commlwngess
~~4I  C   I  2    2   5   U   iTotiIIlmllCmt    I  I   ~~~~~~~~~~ 2  3     4     3      5     7    ftal.;
ak ,tmr.aTtrn us oinai.i
ICIVIL ems
Cu".N                       Iwo Se--   6W.?   121.69  6622   225 4                                                                                   2- -  ti I.
UN-Fain                     lwip Su-n                                                             .45. 7 1,. 06.  1. 2??- U2    3     -           -. 2654.4
se-titei ciwit VMS- 1.91St a 2. 616.1 tguc.4. tout1.                                                                                                    IL- -    .4i6. 
CfIS                ~~~~~~~~~Lisp SW--tif.? -9                                                                   -       -     -     -     -337
rn-Film              Li~~~~~~wosup 3o-                                                        1.3   i&S.                                        7    - - - 1126 
Sao-To'.i EfhinEf                                                                                 - 1.234 6   7I6 6                -                     .0626.6
Sub-Tival 1Il1CAITOW  MO Uaiuig                                                                        2.762.6 2. 722.3 3.344 10116.6       -     -         .0   I
3. ELICTEIC6t alias               Luiso--                                                                  Is.?       -       -       -    .      .             II 
C. £06111321 /a                   Losp Sam--                                                                  -       -  IlL 4                                no. a 
*. acctiss Wigs                   i.m s--                                                                       2- 74.O    20.3       -    -Io" 3.95
E  iCUICOIJTULt SIEUICES
CIVIL VMS                      Lisp Sum--                                                                          -       -   ItS.6 112.1                233.I
EdiIFNfT                       twop Saw-                                                                 3    26           -    t0 22.6a  l0. I392         55.I
5s-Ttout aSUICOLlgUaL SEfl3 CIS                                                                      -    3. 5      2.3       -   122 9 161.2  Itt1  S.2    242.7
F  EMGIUtEtStuG STUDIES           Lisp So-                                                       296 5   1323   156O3   IlLS    43.6                         769.6
G. SUCIiL tIIIIISTUMUCIE
4E3114 SW3 SmirWisu              lnimt     -2                  - -              3      31053      -        -       -    65.2 J                            105.2
EDEPCIUT                       LOWSW so---- -                                                              -   12.3    Ia. 7       -                        2 1
96S15                            unitI     -85153s   a                        255        I IS     -    IL   103.0   11I5           .                      2693I
CIUIIVCEMNIE35                    nimit    -   -    -   2    .         -  .    2       476        -                     22.2       -     -     -     -    122 2
Sub-lolaI 512181 IUFE8E?IUCTMIE  ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~       ---  6----2 --766- --56-1 ---- --- --- --- ------
ULAUD 11T169                      Pono       --  I   '32  III   -           -156          @3 -7             -   69 3    62.5    46.5      -                 120 2
fetal 9UVES5PIKET COSTS                                                                             213.5S 3. 666.5 53.31762 3.23910 1t2l  2 917.2  tO I  5. 2 14. S4Ot.I
II  RECURENET COlST
A. whiUT 3W 633 OBETIutUCE
--1-3-----so------3.?---                                                                                                              u     vs     i      n.
SfLU'E                        Laosun.-.                                                                                 S.  96  i., t I  iI. 073          3936
Sub-fetal WEUTiOU iMO R8IUTEUACE                                                                    -       -             is960    17.2  It.5  13.6a 305     6117
U. iG3ICIILTI9Ia SERVICES
SiLSIIES                      L.spo--W                                                                  .1    20 5    22.0    23 733.91 SS.4  ST13    22123
CUR                           bsp so--                                                                 3. 6     3 7     4 0     t.3itS   21 4  23.7       of22
Sub-Total 6WICOILTUE*L SEtICES                                                                            S.3-2    243  26-6   26 0  43.4  623   .61J.5         264
C  FiindiCiIGiZTIUM              LOWp kam.-                                                                 S    1391   149    36.&6 Lu          -    -      St I
Total 3tIECUIM MyCOSTS                                                                                  -    9.6    263.1    566    6 1.2  73.5 13025 la     4U  C
Total                                                                                                3133 262.26.035   2.431. 0t2 73. 212 6-8 112513122156
. ..       ...    ...    ...    ...   ..    ..   ..    ...
-----ar----at-t----a-- --mt--m--



RZIL
NoRnEAS WL  E                PH
UPE AN  1U   SAO HRWaSOW IMRIGUIQI PfWlECI
Cursae:   Existirg Project Infrastructure, Caortraints aid Proposed Rehablitation W&ds
MEU         I&IKU          IRRIGATION NEIM                 IRAPNME                     GI-AR          M EVELI*Hr          _DAS
1,E. MNrs           -11 psqirg statlwu, of         9  km of secondary          -147 In of collector           -SnalI farmer area(2000 ha)  172 kn of acxs ad
I2GRA3lSCIM         iAldi 2 pump directly         network, trapezoidal          drains.                       partially developed          service road.
frr  Sao Francisco.          comrete lixlr.                                              for surfaoe lrrigatlon.
Details in Caurt I and                                                                   -Private enterprise
table 5.                                                                                 developirg tleir lanM
-73 Im of trapezoidal                                                                    mainly undr sprirkler
concrete lined canal.                                                                    (center pivot)
irription.
2.  XiRATIR         -Operation of rxuW            -Water mBasuremunt           -DraiiAM network               -300 ha affected by hi4h    -Road  prtly in poor
XOWIlCt8 RNo        witlput aitorutization        structures Inalequte.         imuufficient to evacuate      water table coditloiu.       camoiton.
(W6 RAM             extr.sely difficult.          -Lack of control              surfac  rain water.           -200 ha neal ca1plte
-1InMg statiom               structures.                                                 releveliE.
5,6,7,8 and 9 need           -upnation reseroirs                                         -Erotom at tail erda of
stad-by pa.                  Inqieratlonal, rnea                                         canals.
Suction milel of ixLqI       cleniU.                                                     -tkeI for on-fanm
statim  on the Sao                                                                       Rtorage.                                                       I
Frncasco need cleaiig.iI
-4 puxlrg statin,  nree
poectim  qeimt
rainfall.
-%In a a1 lasd
adequate water
mwurent fan  lities
ard control structures.
-Vapensation reservoirs
ned cleanizg.
3. P     l2os)      -Cleaning of saction         -Rehahitttation of 180         -Constructlon of              -Qi-farm developsent an      -Rehahlitation of 50 km
PIWECY WOWS         wells of mlin PunpliE          mall reservoirs.             additimal 60 km of            1,000 ha additional land    af access ard service
sttloiu.                     -Proviston of 10 water        draim ani ailtary             to be transferred to         roame.
-Oxuttuct side weirs,        control alL mismuraeent       structwer.                    small farits.
control strcttire,           structures.                                                 -land levelUig 200 ha.
etc. needed for              -0oastruction of                                             6ubsurfac  drainage
autceutization of canal      .idittonal 60 kn of                                         300 ha.
operatit.                    canal netwuirk to serw                                      S9tructures to concrol                                       Ju
-Provision of stmdty         area transferrel frcm                                       and evacimte tail water                                      I-A
pwpirg urits for 5           private to social                                           to drains.                                                      W
etatiors.                    sector.                                                     -Construction of 500
on-fann reservirs.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Tables 10 and 11
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 10: Curaca Rehabilitation Scheme: Pumping Stations Characteristics
0          CV        H           PUMPS
(m3/h)      (hp)      (m)     No.      m3/h each
1.  Area BB-1
EB 1                    4,650        900      34       3        1,550
EB 2                    4,500        600      22       3         1,550
EB 3                      435         25       9       1          435
2.  Area BB-2
EB 4                   15,740      2,800      36.5    4         3,935
EB 5                      215         20      14       1          215
EB 6.1                 15,200      1,400      18.5    4         3,800
EB 6.2                    215         30      22       1          215
EB 7                    1,800        120      11.5    2           900
EB 8                   12,500        750      12       5        2,500
EB 9                    8,600        500       9.5    4         2,150
EB 10                   7,920        800      17.5    4         1,980
EB 11                   2,775        300      22.5    3           925
Table 11: Manicoba Rehabilitation Scheme: Pumping Stations Characteristics
0          CV        H           PUMPS
(m3/h)      (hp)      (m)     No.     m3/h each
EB IA                      14,400      2,800      43       4         3,600
-  lB                       5,160        800      33       2        2,580
EB 2                          880         80       17      2           440
EB 3                        2,880        250       16      2         1,440



AZIL
Nwsr mmAL 0Dr Rmm
UW   AND UM   M) FWCISC) TCAftN F80ECr
H nlcobs: Existirg Project Infrastnctuze, c.trlnts and Proposed  tubilUtatn Ion .r.
WAAM   & IAU4;             IWIUGCATIQN lETIK              WAW                        GI-FAIM W     fMNI                 Kmh
I.XlSlrlC           -3 pStVt  statiom: for       -118 In trapesoidal           97 In cotlector drair.       -On-famn developent for    -204 la of accms and
l1I1'll CIUE        detaLl, nee table 6 and      lired canl network.          -53 km  cnbmiary drairm.      1914 ha.                    urvic, roads.
Caurt 2.                    -2 aqtiwuct of 63  a*nd
-535mh aSdutton pipe         5 A,.
dim. I1.801.
-3535. aldixtton pipe
dtm. I.Im.
30 la rin acnat,
trapezoidal, ltnad.
2.  YFRAIIC         -Prohiem wtth                -Eroion of tide slopes       -I  for aldititw71            -Eroton at taU erd of       -AMat 252 of roadt tn
ammI        AND     ehsnkmevt of suction         of canal eivtdet.            collector drairm.             arfarm canals.             pFoor cardittin be to
0a*iKMAIMNS         uell of win ptadNt           -lAck or deficenit wRter                                   -20y) he reqlire           LMk of milntenmce.
5ttattnn.                    control an1 mil uret                                      releveliui ard lan1
-&port  tntcEture of         structure..                                               preparation.
min dim. I.&%                &qia? InAseS. tl-dOI'                                     -ted for onrfarm
alduction pitpe              canAl joints.                                             drains .
truufficient. *                                                                              for wll on-(famt                                                             L
reservis.                                                                         I
-120 ha water ldr-A.
3. FlMr             -CleanirE  awtian well       -rawistnlnn of catrol        -Qiutnruction of 37.5 km      -S6uhrface draln;e for
CLS*WMI             FJI.                         aid water nr.ureent          of collector drains.          120 ha.                    -RehabiUtatton of 50 km
-Protection for E122         structiure..                                              -StructureR for tail erd    of acoms aid service
FuzTtfE unit.                -ftotectlon of 30 Isn                                     of on-tanm cals.            roads aid comtructiln of
-Reconstruction of           of canal MikiMts.                                         -eleyeling 200 ha.          au brldp.
cnnrete suppDrt              -tir of canal joints.                                     -,-fasm draIns 25 km
for min aductton lire.                                                                 -Construction 500
-ftovdtAan of meter                                                                    or-fanm reservoirs.
m.wrnunt ad cnntrol                                                                    -Co-fairs developmet
sttuctures.                                                                            1000 ha.
_- _



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
The New Irrigation Formoso A Subproject Works
1.        The Formoso A subproject would cover about 9,130 ha net of
potentially productive lands located on the right bank of the Corrente
River which is one of the most important tributaries of the Sao Francisco
River. Most of the soils in the project area are of residual origin, and
well suited for the production of various agricultural crops, assuming
irrigation water and other agricultural inputs are available. Clay soils
including deep hydromorphic cambisols (30% of the area), hydromorphic
planosols (13% of the area) and the red podzols (10% of the area), have
natural fertility varying from medium to low. The clay-loam textured
latosols, occupying 35% of the area, are very well drained and have high
natural fertility. The remaining area is occupied by overdrained sandy
soils. According to USBR irrigation land suitability standards adapted to
the region, there are 3,700 ha of Class 1; 3,100 ha of Class 2; 2,300 ha of
Class 3; no Class 4 lands; 2,300 of Class 5 and 3,400 ha of Class 6.
2.        The project, which is the first phase of the overall Formoso
Irrigation Project, foresees the construction of:  (a) a pumping station on
the Corrente River; (b) a distribution system; and (c) water drainage
system.  It would also include the construction of a rural road network, as
well as that of health posts, schools and communal centers to serve the
settled population. The subproject would settle small holders operating
4 ha net over 7,070 ha. The remaining 2,060 ha would be occupied by medium
and large farms and private enterprises. Subproject implementation costs
are shown in Table 1.
3.        The pumping station on the Corrente River would be a
multiple-pump station provided with six vertical turbine-type pumps each of
1.57 m3/sec capacity and a water discharge pressure of 30 m at flange. The
pumps would be provided with 'shut off' motorized valves to avoid the flow
through the pump reverses in addition to pilot-operated valves which would
open quickly after a power interruption or by a sudden large pressure
reduction or pressure increased at the surge suppressor. The main pipeline
would be an 80-inch steel pipe protected against corrosion with interior
lining and covering. Electrical motors of 750 HP each would drive the
pumps, at a maximum flow rate 20 hours a day during the month of maximum
water demand. The project would also include the installation of one
electrical substation (13.8/4.16 KV) of 5,000 KVA capacity.
4.        The distribution system would include conducts, conveyance
structures, regulating works, booster pumping stations, measuring devices,
protective elements and miscellaneous features needed to deliver water to
all parts of the irrigable area. The conduits would be composed of an open
canal system and a pressurized network. Open canals would total some 86 km
with flow capacities varying from 9.4 to 0.2 m3/sec.



- 47 -                   ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
5.        The area would be subdivided into 33 sectors each served by its
own pumping sta.ion. The sectors would pump water from the secondary
canals, through an asbestos-cement pressure pipe network (29 m/ha) to
blocks of about nine farmers. The pumping station would consist of three
horizontal centrifugal pumps, each delivering 260 m3/h against a total
manometric head of 75 m and of about 100 hp. Automated controls would
activate the pumps according to demand. Each sector would include an
auxiliary centrifugal pump for pressurization of the pipe network at the
start of daily operations. A standard block would serve nine holdings,
distributed in four on each side and one at the lower end of a central
feeder line. Each farmer would own his own portable aluminum pipe line
with seven sprinklers. A 24 m x 24 m pattern was selected as the most
economic. Each sprinkler would discharge 6.16 m3/hour at a nozzle pressure
of 4.0 atmospheres. During the peak month, irrigation would take place
during 20 hours with an intensity of 11 mm/hour, which is adequate for
prevailing soil conditions. The system allows for simultaneous irrigation
of three farmers within the block. In practice three farmers would form a
subgroup and divide the available water on an equal time-share basis.
Medium and large far..ers and private enterprise would receive water at
secondary canal level and develop their own sprinkler irrigation system.
They are free to form groups or operate pumping stations on an individual
basis. CODEVASF would review and if necessary, revise their irrigation
development plans in order to ensure that they comply with the overall
concept of the project.
6.          The project would provide surface drainage for evacuation of
rain water and irrigation runoff. The system would consist of a main
collector drain, which crosses the project area in the SW-NE direction and
21 secondary drains, totalling 99 km. Runoff from outside the irrigation
perimeter would be intercepted before entering the project area. Runoff
has been estimated using the 'Rational Formula fc,r drainage basins of less
than 200 ha, the 'Cypress-Creek Formula" for larger watersheds and the
Kirpich Equation' for determining concentration times. All drains would
have trapezoidal cross-sections with a minimum base of 0.50 m and 1:1 side
slopes. Water velocities would be kept below 1.30 m/sec. Drains have been
designed for 1 in 10 years maximum rainfall and drain structures for 1 in
20 years maximum flow discharge.



-48-                                             ANNEX 2
Ta7le 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Formoso A Irrigation Scheme - Implementation Costs
,.., ~ ~     ~      .    ., *.   *    g v..       .t.:                                                                    e
1. SUIStlIUUI 6251
................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~................... 
I.   ...                                                     . _
-                         16 ,.   _      ,            ,                                            - 2,T.1U. 2  m.'.  4.16  1.2164  S11          -       - tstms
u|-s                       urnwsz  - - tS | tll   *    s1. on   2 .6 s *4a  7.6     3a            -  I 2.46.  116.L   lIg                -              - em.
...__ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~  .  .     ......... . ..... ....     .. .       .... .. .
se-eu  rn~                                                                                            -2.266.6  lIlt?  12-11  11.1  C I11J.1 -               J -  13T
2. IUI62E!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.12  LM t1 If 3
-                                                                                                                   --      -- -  --- .---.- I  -          L         I
C6-166                    Lw Sm      -                               ' ' ' ' ' '                   -      - 5. 132.  -0 ".. I. M      N
S.Ap-level 16t16211                                                                                   -2.142.61 LYSLO *.16K.tLGGIl_nI.?             -       -  ,gg
*. 116515  62s1_               l_ -        -           -   -        -  -  -  -                           - 1,5.   1.t 6 6  I.Z 12.              .t   -    *   *. * tal,
._. .._..________...__ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ....        . ...   ... .   ..... ....       .    ..... ...    .. ..
LI 4661546Sf IsK             1    _  -m              -       -       -  -                   -            -                1. 3§*16.  t       -      -         ,* m 
IL    ;                                                                                                                       S". m   1   m3 -  -  -   -   -  -   1.1  931 _  _ 
L Ms63UUI sUVEus
cIvL t_                      tw o             -            -     -  -  -                              - So  12.2   2131, 9 466    1.t S                       1.213
..AtEl6 T02 Tt3            156 S         -            -          '  '1 --                                           - -  -         -        _     _           1  6 
*. _uiIv   5&1166              .6  Sm    -     -      *     -      -  .-  -                       LII -.  *   *                                              - *  * .  * *  1
8116315                      6.1       -     -      U     -      -      .    -    6     21.4                -   56.          -      -              -      -   *q3.
166156                        bIll      -     -     S             -      -  -      6     3 .6        -       -z  31.          -      -      -       -           253.2 
0211                          bOIl      -   66           5       -       -  - '.6        '        '    '1.    12.2....... 163.1.. -         -,   -    ., 2.1
11   311                       II                                       -l -ac  3"E      -16         . n         34.6.       -      -      -      -         .   41.6
SmLZ _-iXev   -611  -u6511                                                                            -  5.1  148 n> .6@  166.1       -^     -s   -         . 3. .e e 
U U vlLI                     lem            26    66 96    86t.wo32                                  .   4        I. B2.    342.3,  181.1    -.  41-    -1.    91
rt IWttl." inmimsimnu 4          1   13; ^ .  SmV t .                                                     .t . ............... .....  . ..........   .           ..
______  ._663   ___ _.1 __
P.   11S                    1.62 Sm    .     _      .     .               S                           .                   2
t66                         1.6  u_sm    -          -     .   .    ,-   ......   ,          ,                       -   221.2 236  25.   266.?  216.9  1.2-nr
T-6311  6165         S     16 Sm                          -      .  -       .   -                                   -   22.   -e. U  231.   56 2t 41 9  1 .151I*. ?t X
ge S-le   -216 16 665161                                                                              .      .        -   -1.   319    3*.   36. 1.41   4.1   S t  W*_ e
551331 LaS  .St_   -tC                                      .     .  .t .  .       .                      629    51e    2135   216    916.    SK   916.  1.12
c.  --C -wte-S----      1--      _              -                        -  -    -            -             13.     49      942    6.    0.6    3         62     313.
ma n_ 661610                  1   Sm    -          -                                             ,_,,,_  ,,,_,_  _  _; , ,_,    ,__   ,_,  ,,_    ,,_    _
ns        E   CU tS                                              -.                                                    26.6 n  I.2l   141.. 13.1 1.4 *.4   3T.26



-49 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
1.        Until recently,  CODEVASF operated and maintained its irrigation
systems.  The farmer limited his participation to on-farm works and had
almost no say in operational decisions. CODEVASF recovered operation and
maintenance costs through water charges. This arrangement has led to an
over-staffing within the perimeters, inefficient use of operation and
maintenance equipment, high operation and maintenance costs, and often
tense relationships between project management and beneficiary farmers. To
overcome these constraints CODEVASF intends to gradually emancipate the
perimeters, motivate farmer participation in project management and
transfer part of its responsibilities to the beneficiaries. The transfer
of responsibilities to water users would lead to a reduction of costs and
would be directly reflected in the level of water charges. CODEVASF has
discussed this approach with farmers in all proposed project areas, and the
new approach has been widely accepted.
2.        In a first phase farmers would join in small groups (users'
committee) to operate a joint outlet; for example, a canal lateral. Small
groups allow for active par:ticipation of all members in day-to-day
decisions of their interest. CODEVASF would sell water to these groups,
and they would organize among themselves operation and maintenance and
water distribution, including allocation and control of water use.
Participation would be compulsory for all farmers served by the lateral or
water outlet. In the future, these groups could gather to form water user
associations for a larger sub-area or 'Juntas de Usuarios" for the entire
perimeter. The system would give farmers a greater leverage before project
authorities and reduce operation and maintenance costs of CODEVASF.
Farmers would also take better care of their facilities. CODEVASF would
continue to operate head and main works and equipment and assist the
farmers in technical and operational matters. It would maintain a central
pool of equipment for maintenance of the main infrastructure (Table 1), and
if requested, for lease of services to farmer groups. However, if
available, CODEVASF should encourage the use of private contractors.
3.        The described approach has been successfully implemented in the
Mandacaru perimeter where CODEVASF only operates the pumping stations and
main supply lines. Operation and maintenance costs decreased by about 50%
and overall efficiencies increased. The following paragraphs present
specific organization proposals for operation and maintenance of the
Formoso A and rehabilitation subprojects.
4.        The organization of operation and maintenance for the Formoso A
subproject would be structured as follows:



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(a) a head office, chaired by a civil engineer who would be directly
responsible to the chief of the perimeter;
(b) an operation unit comprising three subdivisions for operation of
the
Ci) wiin pumping station;
Cti) secondary pumping station;
(iii) distribution network; and
(c) a maiuLtenance unit including a workshop and mobile services.
Tables 2 and 3 detail operation and maintenance costs related to staffing,
energy and maintenance of the Formoso A subproject. Water %ould be
delivered to groups of nine farmers who would allocate and distribute it
among themselves. Each farmer would own its own lateral.
5.        Total annual operation and maintenance costs at full development
in the Formoso perimeter would amount to US$688,150 or US$75 per ha,
including staff (US$213,950), energy cost (US$195,600), and maintenance
costs (US$278,600). The project would provide for all project operation
and maintenance costs during the period of project implementation.
6.        Organization for operation and maintenance of rehabilitation
projects would follow a pattern similar to that of Formoso. Operation and
maintenance units would be staffed and equipped according to specific
project needs. Tables 4 and 5 outline present and future project operation
and maintenance costs for the Sao Desiderio and Estreito perimeters. The
proposed project would finance incremental costs only. Table 6 summarizes
present and future project operation and maintenance cost for all
rehabilitation projects.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operations and Kaintenance Equipeent CODEVASF
Not Irrigated
(Area)       (2.650 ha)    (2,000 ha)    (5,440 ha)          (420 ha)        (760 ha)      (4,060 ha)    (4,400 ha)    (9,130 ha)
UNIT COST       ESTREITO      SAO DOSIDERO    COROTUBA        FORHOSINHO       CERAIKA        CURACA         MA.ICODA        FORNOSO A      TOTAL   TOTALS
USS        Unit    usj   Unit    USS   UnitUnit    US$   Unit    USS   Unit    USS   Unit    usj   Unit    USS   Unit             US   1ntt  *il1
Excavator                        83,O00          I H3,00         1  53,000       1 13,000       -  -----        I  83,000       1 53,000       1 83,000        1   53,000      7   581,000
Notorgrader                      59,101          I  59,000       1  59,000       I  59,0W       -               I  59,04)0     I  59,tt0       I  s9,000      2  118,000       8   472,000
Caterpillar-type Tractor         46,0N10         1  46,000       1  4b,000       I  46,0o0      I  4b,000       -              I  4h,000       1  46,000       2   92,000      8   368,000
Wheel Tractor                     16,000         3  45,000       3  45,Ot0      4  64,000       1  1h'O0        I  16,000      4  64,043       4  64,000      5   O,0000    25   400,000
Front End Loader                 42,4100         I  S2,000       1  42,0011      1  42,0O0      -               -              I  42.000       1  42.000       1   42,000      t   252,000
Drain Kaintenance Equipsent   26,00'1            1  26,000       1  26,00W      I  26,000       -               -              I  26,000       1  26,000      2   52,000       7   182,000
Tank Truck                       29,000          1  29,04H)      1  29,04)0      1  29,000      -               -              I  29,000       1  29,000       1   29,000      6   174,000
Dump Trmck                       23,000          2  46,000       2  46,(10          69,000      -              -               2  46,000       2  46,000      4   92,000      IS   345,000                        I
Service Truck                    29,000          1  29,000       I  28,000       1  28,000      -               -              I  28,00o       I  2R,000       1   28,000      6   16_,000                       Ut
Truck                             18,000         I  8I,tlo      -              I  18h,04)      I  18,000       -              -               -               I   1I,000      4    72,000
Hunck Truck                      23,000          1  21,000       1  23,000       1  23,0o)      -               _              1  23,400       I  23,0u0       1   23,000      6   138,000
Heavy Tranaport Truck            66,000          -               -              -               -               -              -               -               I   66,000      I    66,000
Road Roller                      37,000          1  31,000       I  17,0U0      1  31,0)        _                              1  37,00        I  17,000       1   317,000     6   222,000
dob Cat                          15,000          I  15,00W       I  IS,00O      I  15,000       -               -              I  15,000       I  I5,000      -                5    75,000
Drag Line                        89,000          -               -              I  H9,000       -               -              -               -                               I    89,000
Pick-up Truck                    11,000          I  11,000       I  11,000      I  II,0INI      -               -              I  11,0003      I  11,000      4   44,000       9    99,000
Small Vehicle                     5,000          I   5,000       I   5,oon      I   5,000       I   s,000       I   5,000      I   S,0O        I   5,000      3    S,000      10    50,000
Motorcycle                         2,UW0         6  12,000       4   8.000      8  16,0Wo       2   4.OuU       2   4,000    IS  3O.OD0       IS  30,000    18  326000    70   140.000
Total                                         5211,00        506,000         660,000          89,000        167,000         544,0D0         544,000         855,000         3,891,000
Workshop Including
equipment                                          ---                      --              --             --                     --              --            130.000           130,000
Total                                              528,000         506,000        660,000          1i9,000        167,000        544,000         544,0O0          9S,W000         4,023,000                   t
.    I



- 52 -
AIIMC 3
Table 2
NOsAr  FRAL  TEELV             PGR
UPr AND IE  SAD FRPAISM IIGM PRWE
Foumoso Operatim and Muintenance Costs
US$                   US$
1. Head Office
-eald 01/M, Civil or Mechanical Engineer        8,260         1        8,260
-Tecdmicn                                       4,780         2        9q560
-Secretary                                      2,369         1        2,369      2D,189
2.     0         Unit
-hief, lAgricultural or Civil EWgineer          8,260         1        8,260
-Cbmputer SpedaUlst                             8,260         1        8,260
-Operators - Main Pu.lg Statin
2 Operators, 3  dfts                         2,366         6       14,196
-rES S-  Puwj
11 Operators, 3 Shifts                        2,366        33       78,078
-Ditdiriders, lain CuWu
3 Ditchridrm, 2 shifts                       2,366         6       14,196
-Operator OG( !quipt 1/                          -    1/    19          -
-Drivers                                        2,366         4        9,464     132,454
3. Maintemmee Unit
-Chief, Hmdniral Engineer                       8,260         1        8,260
-Elect.r.texmclan                               4,780         3       14,340
-Medunical Tedmidian                            4,780         3       14,340
-KIectrid.an                                    2,602         3        7,806
-Medunic                                        2,602         3        7,806
-Assistant                                      1,230         5        6,150
-Specialized Labr                               2,602         1        2,605      61,307
213,950
I/ Cast ixx-1xd  in 0l casts cE equipint.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Miscellaneous Fnrmoso Operation and Maintenance Costs
1.  ENERGY                                             Subtotal         Total
USS             US$
1.1 Demand
Total 3358kw + 7042kw - 10400kw
at US$4.14 per kw                   = US$43,056
Adjustment deduction
rural consumer x 0.678           - US$29,192
Adjustment for non-peak
consumers x 0.5                  - US$14,595     $ 14,595
1.2 Consumption
Total 8,382 MWh + 17,266 MWh - 25,648 MWh
at US$10.41 per MWh                 - US$266,996
Adjustment for rural
consumers x 0.678                  US$181,023    $181,023      $195,618
2. REPLACEMENTS & MATERIALS
2.1 1Z of Electro-mechanical equipment                          S 39,468
2.2 O&M of. equipment
listed in Table 1                                           $229,080     $268,548



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sao Desiderio Operation and Maintenance Costs
(in US$)
Present         Future with Project
Unit Cost  No.    Total          No.     Total
1. STAFFING
Civil or Agricultural Engineer       8,260     3      24,780         1       8,260
Administrative Assistant             2,366     1       2,366         1       2,366
Technicians                          4,760     -        -            2       9,520
Pump Operators                       2,366     1       2,366         4       9,464
Ditch Riders                         2,366      1      2,366         4       9,464
Gate Operator                        2,112    11      23,232         -         -
Ilechanic                            2,602      1      2,602         1       2,602
Electrician                          2,602     -        -            1       2,602
Specialized Labor (Masonrv)          2,602     1       2,602         1       2,602
Other Spec. Labor                    2,112     2       4,224         -        -
Maintenance Foremen                  2,366      4      9,464         3       7,098
Subtotal                             74,002
2.  ENERGY                                                   -                   10,756
3.  MAINTENANCE                                            58,281                26,309
Total                               132,283                91,043
-



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estreito Operation and Maintenance Costs
(in USS)
Present        Future with Project
Unit Cost  No.    Total         No.     Total
1. STAFFING
Civil or Agricultural Engineer       8,260     2      16,520        1        8,260
Administrative Assistant             2,366     -        -           1        2,366
Technicians                          4,760     4      19,040        2        9,520
Pump Operators                       2,366     5      11,830       10       23,660
Ditch Riders                         2,366     -                    6       14,196
Gate Operator                        2,112     4       8,448        - 
Mechanic                             2,602      1      2,602         1       2,602
Electrician                          2,602     -        -           1        2,602
Specialized Labor                    2,602      1      2,602        1        2.602
Subtotal                             61,042                65,808
2.  ENERGY                                                 19,062                27,827
3. MAINTENANCE                                             59,630                59,568
Total                               139,734               153,203



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION F."OJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Project/Situation            Staff         Energy        Maintenance       Total     Total
- -US$ 000- - - -   - - - - - - -                      US$/ha
1. FORMOSO
Present 
Future with Project   213.9           195.7            278.6         688.2        75
Incremental            213.9          195.7            278.6         688.2
2. SAO DESIDERIO
Present                  74.0          -                58.3         132.3
Future with Project    53.9            10.8             26.3          91.0        45
Incremental           (-20.1)          10.8           (-32.0)       (-41.3)
3. ESTREITO
Present                  61.0          19.1             59.6         139.7
Future with Project    65.8            27.8             59.6         153.2        58
Incremental               4.8           8.7              0            13.5
4. CURACA
Present                276.4          112.6            143.4         532.4
Future with Project   170.0           262.3             96.8         529.1       130
Incremental          (-106.4)         149.7           (-46.6)       (- 3.3)
5. MANICOBA
Present                 168.8          86.4            141.1         396.3
Future with Project   101.9            97.5             91.6         291.0        66
Incremental           (-66.9)          11.1           (-49.5)      (-105.3)
6. FORMOSINHO
Present                 34.9           20.2 1/           5.4          60.5
Future with Project    20.6            10.1             10.9          41.6        99
Incremental           (-14.3)        (-10.1)             5.5        (-18.9)
7. CERAIMA
Present                 48.9           -                39.1          88.0
Future with Project    35.0            -                25.4          60.4        80
Incremental           (-13.9)          -              (-13.7)       (-27.6)
8. GOROTUBA
Present                 71.4           -                68.1         139.5
Future with Project   71.4             -                52.0         123.4        23
Incremental             -                             (-16.1)       (-16.1)
If/  Energy cost high because of prsent high demand and low consumption.



-57 -                  ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Farmer Training
I. Formoso A New Irrigation Scheme
Existing Situation
1.01      At present, there are no permanent residents in the project
area. The land is covered by dense brush (mata), into which penetrate
trails leading to the river Corrente. These trails are criss-crossed by
narrow strips cleared to permit engineering surveys. The total net
irrigable area is 9,130 ha, all located in one contiguous block lying north
of BR 349, the main road from Bom Jesus de Lapa to Santa Maria da Victoria
(Map IBRD 19210). The land is potentially productive with an abundance of
soils suitable for irrigation (Annex 2, para 1).
ObJectives
1.02      The project would select about 1,770 farmers and settle them on
ha parcels which would be irrigated by sprinkler irrigation. Therefore,
some 7,070 ha net would be allocated to small farmers who would be selected
from applicants now living in the surrounding region, of which Bom Jesus da
Lapa is the principal city. The selection process would begin with project
implementation, and be carried out by the district office of CODEVASF at
Bom Jesus de Lapa. The CODEVASF Settlement Manual, which outlines criteria
and procedures for the selection of new farmers, is consistent with the
Bank rural development policies. The performance of CODEVASF in previously
executed project has been satisfactory.
1.03      Since farmers who are likely to be selected as settlers have
little knowledge of other than subsistence agriculture or uncontrolled
livestock grazing, the extenson and training component would be
indispensable for project success. All members of the farm families to be
settled are expected to participate in farm activities. Therefore, the
project would aim to train the whole farm family to become a
self-sustaining unit.
Strategy
1.04      Implementation would emphasize developing farmer-leaders.  A
training center, located in the project area, would serve as a focal point
of all training and extension efforts. Training would be comprehensive,
reaching not only farmer-leaders, but extension agents, social
extensionists, and all other public agency staff involved in the project.



-58 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
1.05      Intially, the center would train extension agents in the
operation and management of irrigated farms. Then the project would train
a limited number of farmer-leaders in the fudamentals of irrigated
farming.  Subsequently, the extension agents would work through these
farmer-leaders, using them as points of demonstration, to reach all project
farmers. Social extensionistsl/ would work with farm wives. A separate
training and extension program would be directed towards farm youth.
Extension Organization
1.06      All O&M and extension activities would be organized around the 33
pumping stations that would provide water directly to farmn. Each
sub-station would have an average of 54 four-ha farms at full development.
Farms would be arranged by groups of four, with the dwelling and farm
buildings located on adjoining corners. Such an arrangement would
facilitate contact between farmers, CODEVASF and extension staff.
1.07      At the farmer level, extension activities would be carried out by
a basic extension team, consisting of one agricultural agent and one social
extensionist. A team would be assigned to each of the 33 pumping stations
during the first five years of the project. During this period, the team
would work with all the farmers relying on that pumping station. After the
fifth year of operation, the number of extension teams would be
progressively reduced until each team was responsible for two or more
pumping stations. The ratio of farmers to extension team would vary thus
from 50-60:1 initially to about 120:1 in Year 8 of the project.
1.08      On average, each extension team would initially contact four
farmers per day. Farmers would be contacted monthly on a regular
schedule. Agricultural agents would spend somewhat more time with the
farmer-leaders than with other farmers, using the former as a bridge to
reach the latter. For administration and supervison, the 33 teams would be
divided into five groups, each having six or seven teams. One
agriculturist and one social extensionist would coordinate and supervise
the work of each group.
Activities
1.09      Extension activities would initially concentrate on helping
farmers get established on their farms. This would involve preparing farm
development plans, cropping programs and credit applications. There would
be a strong effort to teach farmers how to use sprinkler irrigation. Since
the settlers would have had no previous experience of irrigated farming,
extension agents would have to show them how to prepare land, seed, and
carry out crop protection measures. Social extensionists would encourage
improved sanitation, nutrition, child care, home accounting, and developing
home gardens and small animal enterprises. Agents would organize farmers
1/ The Brazilian equivalent of a home demonstration agent, working
mainly with farm wives.



59 _                 ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
into groups of 15-20 for demonstrations and group activities, many of which
would-take place on the farms of farmer-leaders. Whenever practicable,
wives and children would be encouraged to attend these demonstrations.
Logistics and Administration
1.10      All extension  staff would live in the nroject area in houses
provided by CODEVASF. Each extension team would lie provided with a vehicle
and operating expenses as well as equipment and suppxies necessary for
carrying out the demonstration program. Each group of seven teams would be
provided storage facilities for demonstration equipment and supplies.
Staff housing would include a simple lean-to garage to protect project
vehicles.
1.11      Overall coordination of all extension activities would be
coordinated and directed by one senior agricultural extension specialist
based in Bom Jesus da Lapa. This specialist would have an office from
which to direct activities and one or more administrative assistants.
Additional support of a purely administrative nature would be provided
through the project coordination office of CODEVASF in Salvador.
II. Training Center - Formoso -A"
Physical Facilities and Logistics
2.01      The project would set aside 50 ha for a practical training
center. The center would include a dormitory for 20 male trainees, a guest
house for 10 female trainees, and a cafeteria. Houses would be provided
for a training coordinator and two trainers. In addition, the center would
include one simple classroom, a wood and metal working shop, storage sheds
for farm equipment and farm supplies, two lots of irrigation equipment
(pump, pipes and sprinklers), two lots of mechanized farming equipment
(tractor and related machinery) and two lots of animal-traction equipment
(oxen or horses and related implements). The project would also provide
all salaries and operating expenses for the center. EMATERBA would take
responsibility for operating the center including organizing the training
program.
Training Activities
2.02      The first course given in the center would be to future extension
agents. Either in training with future farmer-leaders or separately,
agents and social extensionists would receive practical courses in
irrigated farming. The object would be to completely familiarize the
trainees with the problems and solutions particular to this type of
farming. All trainees, both agents and farmer-leaders, would spend
sufficient time in the practical training course to carry out one complete
irrigated crop cycle (90-120 days). Trainees would be expected to handle a
2 ha plot as though it were their own farm. They would carry out both
mechanized and animal traction practices under the guidance of professional
trainers. Each trainee would assume responsibility for soil preparation,



-60 -                    ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
seeding, weeding, crop protection, and harvesting. Trainees would keep a
-record of inputs and outputs and calculate crop profitability. Costs
incurred by the center would be reimbursed by trainees. The remainder (or
profit") would belong to the trainees. The center would also provide
training for at least 90 farmer-leaders during the first three years of
operation and short-term practical training for the operating personnel of
CODEVASF irrigation networks.
Other Activities
2.03      The coordinator of the center would also be responsible for
organizing a program of youth training and extension activities. In doing
so, the coordinator would draw on the experience of 4-H clubs as developed
in the U.S. and other Latin American countries, including Brazil.
Additional activities would include special short term (one or two week)
courses for farm wives in nutrition, home sanitation, family planning,
home gardening, production of small animals (chickens and rabbits), and
simple farm and farm home accounting. The latter subject would be a
practical exercise presented to farm couples as part of the larger
extension effort.
Bom Jesus da Lapa Training Center
2.04      A permanent center with good basic facilities already exists in
Bom Jesus da Lapa on the grounds of the CODEVASF compound. The existing
dormitory requires some modernization and repairs. It also needs improved
teaching facilities. The project would provide these. The center would
have no permanent staff, except cleaning and maintenance personnel.
Supervision of this personnel would remain the responsibility of the
CODEVASF center in Bom Jesus da Lapa. CODEVASF management would organize a
continuous in-service training program for all staff involved in the
project. All of the theoretical courses would be given in this center.
Practical field work would be carried out at the field center in Formoso
A". Pump and irrigation system operating and maintenance personnel would
receive most of their training at the Bom Jesus da Lapa center. It would
also serve as a meeting place for personnel involved in directing the
activities of other project rehabilitation areas.
III. Choice of Agencies for Implementing the Extension Component
3.01      In six of the seven rehabilitation perimeters included in the
project, CODEVASF personnel have sole responsibility for
providing technical assistance. However, this technical assistance mainly
consists of collecting cropping patterns which are needed to establish
irrigation schedules and assisting farmers in preparing credit
applications. In the Curaca perimeter, CODEVASF contraicted with COTIA, a
Brazilian-Japanese agricultural cooperative with its heaAquarters in Sao
Paulo state, to provide technical assistance since 1981. This limited
experience has been judged reasonably successful because the COTIA
technicians have been particularly competent in the production of
vegetables.



- 61 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
3.02      Even though CODEVASY, COTIA, and EMATER BA were all considered as
potentially able to provide technical assistance, the EMATER-BA option was
retained for the new Formoso "A" perimeter, while CODEVASF was retained for
all the rehabilitation perimetero. Under contract to CODEVASF, COTIA will
continue its activities in the Curaca perimeter.
3.03      EMATER-BA was selected to provide technical assistance in the new
perimeter for the following reasons:
(a) EMBRATER (at the national level and EMBRATER-BA at the state
level) has a mandate to provide technical assistance to
farmers;
(b) EMATER-BA already has the necessary infrastructure in the
state of Bahia to provide administrative, technical and
logistical support to the additional staff (58 field
technicians, social extensionists and supervisors) which
will be required in the new areas; much of this
infrastructure was financed by previous Bank projects; and
(c) the project incorporates practical field training for
extension agents; this feature should overcome the
EMATER-BA weakness in irrigated agricultural production and
would allow EMATER-BA technicians to be able to work as well
as those employed by any other agency. CODEVASF would
closely monitor performance of EMATER-BA under a contract,
the terms of which would be acceptable to the Bank as a
condition of negotiation.
3.04      CODEVASF was selected to continue in the rehabilitation
perimeters where it already has staff. The extension component would
provide for training to existing as well as additional staff. CODEVASF has
demonstrated that it has the administrative and logistical capability to
provide for a small number of technical assistance staff in the
rehabilitation perimeters. EMATER-BA would provide technical support to
these staff through the training component as well as through six
subject-matter specialists stationed in Boa Jesus da Lapa.
3.05      Contracting COTIA services would be a feasible alternative should
the EMATER-BA option not become operational. COTIA does have the capacity
to provide qualified technical agents for the Formoso A irrigation scheme.
However, COTIA usually insists on taking direct production responsibility
for large areas, up to 50X of the irrigable lands in some cases. COTIA
would settle some individual farmers of the southern region on 30-ha plots
In order to demonstrate improved agricultural practices to the small
farmers settled in other project areas. Therefore, COTIA's involvement in
the project would be conditioned on satisfactory discussions with CODEVASF
in regard to the amount of land to be allocated to COTtA and the proportion
of farmers to be recruited from outside of the Northeast Region.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
External Technical Assistance and CODEVASF Staff Training
1.        The purpose of the external technical assistance and the CODEVASF
staff training program is to provide necessary specialized, technical,
operational and managerial skills for CODEVASF to implement its entire
irrigation program. The institutional approach would yield significant
economies of scale and would overcome the constraints imposed, particularly
in the irrigation subsector, by a project-by-project approach.
External Technical Assistance
2.        External technical assistance would aim to give CODEVASF the
capability required for executing the tasks for which skills are not now
available within CODEVASF. It would be related to project work
(generation, appraisal, implementation and operation), to institutional
development (finance, organization and management) and to the training
program, so that staff skilled in the appropriate fields would be available
to operate and maintain the investment at full development.
3.        The institutioaal development component has been designed
including two innovative features:
(a) project activities are disaggregated into tasks and for each task
institutional capacity gaps (ICG including skill gaps) have been
identified. To help bridge these ICGs becomes the main objective
of the techaical assistance and training activities included with
project. This will allow for a technical assistance work far
more relevant to the needs aad will entice the designation of
serious counterpart personnel.
(b) counterpart personnel will be obtained through the hiring of
young professionals who would be trained by the program and who
would progressively become professionals able to take over the
responsibilities for which they are trained.
4.        This model attempts to find a balance between a technical
assistance specialist with no authority and little responsibility and one
who does all the work himself aad gives local staff little chance to gain
experience. In the institutional development sector the counterpart
adviser model would be most employed. Technical assistance would be
delivered through a combinatioa of long- and short-term specialists.
UNDP/FAO would be the organization responsible for the technical assistance
program. It has gained a good reputation with CODEVASF, providing
satisfactory services and enhancing the effectiveness of consultants in the
field by continuous technical support from headquarters and reinforcement



- 63 -                     ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
of field staff by short-term specialist (Sao Francisco II Irrigation
Project - Loan 1729-BR). The FAO technical assistance team would consist
of a team leader specialized in irrigated agricultural development (four
years); three specialists in on-farm irrigation (three years each); two
operation and maintenance specialists (two and a half years each); and one
hydraulic design specialist (two years). All FAO staff should be based in
the project area with the possible exception of the team leader. Technical
assistance would also include some 120 man-months of various consultants.
CODEVASF Staff Training
5.        Four basic types of training would be provided (a) in-service
training of existing staff to improve present job performance; (b) basic
training for existing or new staff in skills and knowledge required for new
technologies; (c) management training; and td) training in foreign
countries through secondment and fellowships. Some 1,600 CODEVASF staff
members would be trained, including 250 high-level professionals, 550
technicians and 800 field operators.



-64-
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROCRAM
UPPER AND HIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
rmuu
*.na    ........E  .....t l.t........................e *... .......  ...............s....
N.it" IMUIETION 501(3
.r.................                         L2.6 141310.0 IL 220 1  41 21.3I 1. 2&1  732M1   723.?  41. NI 0   4151.3N.
Sub-fetal noa naim uaeh   Sa'1N          M.200  t 101a 162310.0 12. 30.17 4.721. 6 3. 3212   121.   720.1  416181.1  61.411 1
L. uiiuILlrAIs0 S011315
San 1163,.9111                        1I.1 1.0 .4      70.3  1.460 5                .      -           5231.1    .231 a
IsHIITo                                f 200.   402611 2.41111 .81IL2_    71T16    13. IL  1    II 13.itS 0.2119 7   it 0.26.
ComoL0 I.  v21.6  1.11739 2.302  L 402.0   5.1 NI.I                                              3.t,   L.231     1.211
N11101                                   -      L12      46    142.6a  1.711.? 1.105 3    11.1  I11.17     an 2   287
to OSiUSO                                              21.0   III631     e 401   1.1    1.15     S  1.1 010066    I.0
1:1111111%                          a J~~6  46.1  1 .1260    S?76                      - 1. 2211    .2211S
GMT31                                          62 2    672.1  1.323 2    2M.2       -                   T 2623.64   26432.6
5q.-ft$l  11161tal?I  SOIIES          201.1T J.11  0   4143   10 0261.2  L.2N12 2.132.1 S   MI.2  143.6 31 3621. 6   10.2646
C. P610CTI.5 536361
USIINSSU                                 - I.I3        as 6I3  M1 S   72112   016.6  611.1  731.6   1.3301    1.11
LiO* If3tij                                    " 64    '9 116   241 0    M110    66.6   Is. I            1613 9     76L3
Sub-tatal PUSICrIW  563663                  -  I.13.1.  ?7613  ?.0M16  I.062  .007 2  674. 2  7411.16   67"t.4    1 7114
S. 161331                       ~~~~~~~~~~- 34L.0   162.60  I. 024.0    14 0   13. 0   -       1367.40    2."T..0
L  500181 1315?N11S                         .   121.0  1. 21. S  1. 10.2   712.1a   10. 0                 42.1       401
V .  ..................I
slA114 INNING0                           .   iwJ   16. 0    6S2.        ut.   26.0         -       .   2.6113J      ".431.
itwicI  SI 515151                            ML1634  1.131 I   e"01    213.7  201.3  261.4  220.6   6.1635 6  .843 6
S,o-Vgia I lSlITmf?I-UILDIIG                - 2846.1  2. 31.1  I. 302.1    UT? 7      Ml2  243.4  226.6   73323.1    7.32330
fatal PSELINE COSTS                     1.6,1.1 MAIL I 621670322311 II  141641 S3L417 322.16151 1.4.1  1 4.5161  1418.6O-
ft"IWmI Conlun34Aci.3           131 .910.3  218.1  3.6018  1. 21.?  622.1  112                    6 I0   II. "I 2   II. "I J
Price ComoiPgflout                      *4.1   473.6  3.624 S S.211 4 4.221.1 t2.24 1 1.201.3 2   56 67. M1 I   Il 3310
legal IhOdICT COSTS                     3. 631 311 01 3L 2834   4 id.66123 20.ML13 L 214 3 26814.3 26944.1  121641  1'22.66 MI
foe"0                                  261.4  T . "I.   2N.3113.07 2  1.771L1   762 1  36413  212.a  It. I75. 0   11.5160 
lw.tlom  iIsshag.                     .300. I   7. H.4 146.4110 14.013S I 7.322.?7 2.6701 I   14 .a   13.2  6610 1a   48.1IN I
SuSIS  23 11  22:n.41



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ r000)
Bank Year        Quarter    Disbursed During        Cumulative        Balance
Fiscal        Ending           Quarter        Amount Disbursed    of Loan
Sept. 3n           2.8 1/              2.8 1/          54.2
1987          Dec. 31            0.4                  3.2             53.8
March 31           0.5                 3.7             53.3
June 30            1.0                 4.7             52.3
Sept. 30           1.5                 6.2             50.8
1988          Dec. 31            2.1                  8.3             48.7
March 31           2.3                10.6             46.4
June 30            2.7                13.3             43.7
Sept. 30           3.4                16.7             40.3
1989          Dec. 31             4.2                20.9             36.1
March 31           3.9                24.8             32.2
June 30            3.7                28.5             28.5
Sept. 30           3.5                32.0             25.0
1990          Dec. 31            3.2                 35.2             21.8
March 31           3.0                38.2             18.8
June 30            2.7                40.9             16.1
Sept. 30           2.5                43.4             13.6
1991          Dec. 31             2.3                45.7             11.3
March 31           2.1                47.8              9.2
June 30            1.8                49.6              7.4
Sept 30            1.3                50.9              6.1
1992          Dec. 31             1.2                52.1              4.9
March 31           1.0                53.1              3.9
June 30            0.8                53.9              3.1
Sept. 30           0.6                54.5              2.5
1993          Dec. 31            0.4                 54.9              2.1
March 31           0.4                55.3              1.7
June 30            0.3                55.6              1.4
1994          Sept. 30            0.3                55.9              1.1
Dec. 31            0.7                56.6              0.4
March 20           0.4                57.0              0.0
1/ Including Special Account deposit of US$2.5 million.



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production and Farm Models
I.    New Perimeter of Formoso Ae
1.01      This perimeter has 7,070 ha (net) available for irrigation for
small farmers. This area would be subdivided into 1,770 farms, each
disposing of 4 ha (net) for crop production. Farms would be organized
around pumping stations to facilitate water management and the provision of
extension services.
1.02      Clearing.  The area is now covered with dense, high brush.
Mechanical clearing would be used to establish roads and permit rapid
installation of the irrigation infrastructure. Farmers would then hand
clear their own parcels, using the wood removed for house and fence
construction. During the initial year of installation, it was considered
that farmers would be able to clear 2 ha each.
1.03      Cropping.  They would also crop the cleared land during the first
year, and, by double cropping part of it, be able to produce three ha of
cotton, maize and beans by the second year. Both beans and maize are
considered well adapted for the season from April to September, while
cotton performs satisfactorily in the period from October to March. All
three crops would be fairly easy to grow by farmers new to irrigated
farming. During the second and third years of occupancy, farmers would
clear and farm the remaining two ha of irrigable land in their holdings.
In the third year, it is assumed that farmers would introduce higher value
crops, such as watermelon, onions, garlic and pumpkins. By Year 5, such
crops would occupy 1 ha out of every 6 ha, or 17% of the cropping pattern.
Double cropping on half of the land would bring the cropping intensity at
full development to 150%.
1.04      Investments.  CODEVASF would have the responsibility for all
investments necessary to establish a sprinkler-irrigation network and
adequate drainage on all farms. Farmers would construct their own houses
and simple sheds to store tools and implements and certain types of
produce. However, farmers would obtain investment credit to purchase
tractors, and suitable tractor-drawn equipment, draft animals, and
accompanying animal-drawn implements. It was assumed that about 80
tractors would be required to carry out heavy tillage operations on the
7,070 ha of crop land. Tractors would be purchased and operated by the
more enterprising individual farmers as is customary in other parts of the
country. It was also assumed that each farmer would want to own his own
draft animal and appropriate tools for light cultivation and transport.



- 67 -                    ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
1.05      Crops, Yields and Production.  During the 20-year period chosen
for financial analysis, it is assumed that only seven crops would be
grown. These include two basic food crops (beans and maize), one cash crop
(cotton) and four horticultural crops (garlic, onions, pumpkins and
watermelon). Yield projections assume that farmers would need at least two
years of experience in irrigated production of any crop before obtaining
maximum productivity. The yield levels chosen are conservative, and
comparable with those obtained in other irrigated areas of Brazil. Full
development of farms would occur five years after settlement. Since there
is no production whatsoever in the area at present, all production would be
incremental. Area in crops, yields and production are shown in Table 1.
1.06      Farm Models.  Two models were developed to be used in economic
analysis. Both are based on 4 ha farms; the cropping pattern varies only
slightly in the selection of vegetable crops. No livestock activities are
included, since it is assumed that irrigated crop production would likely
be more profitable. An exception might be milk production: transport and
marketing arrangements, however, would have to be considerably improved
before this activity would be feasible. The financial results which would
be obtained by farmers following the scenario established by the two farm
models are shown below.
Net Farm Income
Before Financing               FRR
Model No.       Crops            (at full development)        (over 20 years)
(US$) 
1      Beans, watermelon,
cotton, maize, onions         4,014                      44
2      Beans, cotton, maize
garlic, pumpkin                3,685                     41
Entire Perimeter (1,770 farmers) av.   3,767                        42
The details of the cropping pattern, inputs and production and financial
results of each model are shown either in Tables 1 and 2 attached to this
Annex or in the staff wor-king papers.
II. Rehabilitation Perimeters
2.01      Seven perimeters cover a total area of 19,730 ha (net) of
irrigable land. Of this total, 17,B26 ha represent areas which would be
rehabilitated; the remaining 1,904 ha would be 'new" areas. There are now
1,163 farmers in the seven perimeters. However, most of the irrigable land
is unused, or used only for pasture or rainfed crops.   CODEVASF offices in
each of the perimeters manage the existing irrigation systems. In most of
them, CODEVASF personnel also provide whatever technical assistance is
available.   As the existing land is -rehabilitated," it would be
re-apportioned so that participating farmers would each receive 6 ha of
land.  Those farmers settled on  new  lands would receive 4 ha each.  The
total number of farmers in the three perimeters will then rise from 1,163
at present to 3,447 at full development (Year 7 of project implementation).



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 Of 3
2.02      Cropping.  It is assumed that farmers would continue with
existing cropping patterns and obtain current yields until rehabilitation
had been completed. The Estreito, and Sao Desiderio-Barreiras Sul
perimeters would be rehabilitated first, with civil works being carried out
in the first year of the project. In all the other perimeters, civil works
would not begin until Year 3. Much irrigable land is unused at present.
In land which is cultivated, the cropping intensity is better than 100%.
In the Sao Desiderio perimeter, for example, it is 140%. With the project,
crop intensity would increase to 160%. Total area in crops would increase
from 9,000 at present to over 29,000 at full development (Year 9 of project
implementation).
2.03      Investments.  The investment required would vary in per ha cost
according to the type of irrigation system chosen. In the economic
analysis, an average figure for all of the perimeters was applied to each
perimeter. There would be no need for land clearing. Existing farmers
Woltd replace their existing equipment; new farms would have to invest in
purchase of draft animals and related equipment. Custom charges paid to
custom operators for existing and underutilized equipment would be
sufficient to cover replacement costs of the equipment now on hand.
2.04      Crops, Yields and Production.  Unlike Formoso A, crop production
in the rehabilitation perimeters is already varied, though only small areas
of certain crops are grown. Only potatoes would be introduced as a new
crop, in response to increasing consumer demand. Beans, cotton and maize
now account for 53% of the cropping pattern; at full development, they
would account for 65%. However, the area in vegetable and fruit crops
would expand proportionately more than the three major crops.  The area in
certain high value crops, such as bananas, citrus, onions, potatoes,
pumpkins, tomatoes and watermelons, would increase by over 6,000 ha.
Yields would increase due to improved irrigation and drainage. At full
development, yields would attain the same level as in Formoso A. It has
been assumed that production would cease for one year during the
implementation of civil works. Where non-irrigated land is available,
farmers would switch to rainfed beans to make up for the loss of production
on irrigated fields. On both new and rehabilitated farms, full development
would occur only four years after project civil works were initiated. The
sizable increase in cropped area coupled with increased cropping intensity
and higher yields would result in considerable increases in overall
production. Area in crops, yields and production are shown in Table 1.
2.05      Farm Models.  Seven models were prepared to serve in the economic
analysis. All assume that each perimeter is one large farm. The number of
farms within each perimeter was taken into account in calculating net
family farm benefits before financing both without the project, and with
the project at full development. In all models, all development costs were
charged to the full perimeter. Cost recovery was charged as an operating
cost on an annual basis for the entire perimeter beginning the third year
after termination of the civil works. Costs and benefits were calculated
over 20 years. The financial results of this modelling exercise are shown
in Table 2.



l |                                       |~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI
*         B~~~IAZTh
00EVASF IRRIGA        P WDRa
Crop Production
Formso "A'Perieter
Without Prodect            With Project asd Inbrmtal 1/
Area   Yield       Production     Area      Yield     Productin
CRP                   (ha)  (kg/ha)         (tons)       (ha)   (kg/ha)        (tow)
Beas                    0       -               -        3,540      1,800      6,400
Cotton                  0       -               -        2,655     2,500       6,640
Garlic                  0       -               -          440     3,500        1,540
PAfra                   0       -               -        2,655     4,000       13,300
Onio                    0       -               -          440    15,000       6,600
PuWldrs                 0       -               -          440    16,000       7,040
Watenielons             0       -               -          440    20,000        8,800
Total                -                               10,610
All Rehabilitatiom Perimters
Without Prodect 2/-                   With Project 3/                             Incruetal
Area    Yield      Production      Area     Yield     Production      Area      Z       Yield      Z      Production   X
CROP                      (ha)   (kg/ha)       (tons)        (ha)    (kg/ha)      (tons)        (ha)      -      (kg/ha)     -        (tows)    -
Bananas                45      15,000         675        845      20,000       16,900        800      583      5,000      33       16,225      4/
Beans (Rainfed)       410         500)          -          -            -           -       (410)       -          -       -            -      -
Beans (Irrigated)   1,602       1,000)      1,807      8,860        1,800      15,950      7,258      409        800      80       14,143    783
Citrus                  -           -           -        680       20,000      13,600        680        -          -       -       13,600      4/
Cotton              2,590       1,050       2,720      8,270        2,500      20,675      5,680       164      1,450     38       17,955    60
Garlic                  10      2,000          20         150       3,500         525        140        4/      1,500     75          505      4/
Maize                 662       3,000       1,986      4,715        4,000      18,860      4,053      572       1,000     33       16,874   1,087
Onions                650      10,000       6,500      2,530       15,000      37,950      1,880      266       5,000     50       31,450     484
Potatoes                -           -           -        450       14,000       6,300        450        -          -       -        6,300       -
Pumpkins               171      7,000       1,197        885       16,000      14,160        714    1,330      9,000    129        12,963   1,083
Rioe                  800       1,400       1,120        650        4,000       2,600       (150)     (15)      2,600    186        1,480     132
9reet Potatoes          3      12,000          36         115      18,000       2,070        112        4/     6,000      50        2,034      4/
Tomatoes              902      20,000      18,040      1,620       26,000      42,120        718       65      6,000      30       24,080     133
Watermelon           1,258     15,000      18,870      2,665       20,000      53,300      1,407       74       5,000     33       34,430     182
Total             9,103                             32,435 5/                           23,332      256
1/  Represents 1,770 new fanms at full development (year 4 of project implemntation).
2/  Represents 1,226 farms with 18,454 ha in total area.                                                                                                  m
3/  Represents 2,194 farma with 20,000 ha in total area at full development (year 9 of project implementation)
7/ Not shomn because of the small area and production in the without project situation.
5/ Represents a croppirg intensity of 160%.
TJzuiary 10, 1985



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Models - Financial Results
(USs '000)
Net Family Farm Iacome
FRR (over
Number of Farms         Income Before Financing       20 years)
Perimeter   Without        Full         Without          Full           (%)
Project    Development    Project        Development
Ceraima            110       132          1,753          5,528          32
Curaca             277       677          3,649         1G,780          37
Estreito           150       537            944          4,589          33
Formosinho          10        91          4,496          4,677          46
Gorutuba           107       930         14,329          7,022          23
Manicoba           234       733          6,043          7,572          25
Sao Desiderio/
Barreiras Sul      275       347          2,110          7,541          29
All Perimeters  1,163      3,337          4,228 (Av.)   7,676 (Av.)   29



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRA!
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Nov Formoso A Irrigation Schem: Incremental Economic Analyls.
(in US$'000)
1IME     1067       1995    It9Y    190    199        2W2    1993    1994    1995      2020
PROJECT KENEFITS -.
__..________________
AUUROATED INC. REFEPITS           -  -3341.19   3230.48 -1001.83 2661.50 7060.52 861J.13 9396.76 9525.3S 9595-56 10471.29
PROJECT COSTS /b
CIVIL MORKS                 2456.9V   5459.-2   3775.20  1254.97  122.32        -       -                -       -        -
IRRIIAT. FOUIPNENT         1809.00   4121.00   1146.00   502.00         -       -               -        -       -        -
ELECTRICAL NETMORK          16S4.00    827.00    827.00         -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -
0 1 N EGUIPHENT                             -         -   400.00  455.00        -       -       -        -       -        -
ACCESS ROADS                      -   1040.16   2060.32   346.72        -       -       -       -        -       -        -
AGRICUL7URAL SERVICES        663.07    220.97    323.66    40.66   47.26   24.90   33.10        -        -       -        -
L- D TITLING                  44.00    110.00    110.00   132.00        -       -       -       -        -       -        -
ADNINISTRATIVE CEt4TER            -    258.72          -        -       -               -       -        -       -        -
CIVIL MORKS SUPER9[SIOM      320.00    640.00    320.00   320.00                -       -       -        -       -        -
SUPTOTAL INVESTMENT        6947.83  12677.37   85P2.18  29Y6.34  624.58   24.90   33.18         -        -       -        -
RECURRENT COSTS
AURICULT.SERVICES It         56.67    172.30    261.01   354.64  449.18  442.99  325-60  325-60  32i.60  325.60   215.60
PROJECT ADNINISTRATTON        18.80     41.70     45.90    45.90   45.90   4S.90   41.70   40.00   31.00   30.00          -
FARMERS ORGANJZATJON              -         -      6.30    12.60   12.60    6.30        -       -        -       -        -
SUITOTAL RECURRENT           75.47    214.00    313.71   413.14  5064.60  495.19  367.30  365-60  356.60 .355.60   215.60
BASk PROJECT COSTS         7023.30  17691.37   B895.39  3409.48 1131.26  520.10  400.43  365-60  356-60  355.60   215.60
PHYSICAL CONTINENrCIES      399".9    1650.10   113P.61   436.41  144.P0   66.57   53.26   46.90   45.64   45.52    27.60
A.flSSJ.a ..aaaJaflXasU-. _X-w-_-  azasaM _C---S3  _aas..n. ta..                          "s, ....
TO701*  COSTS               7P22.29  14541.47  J0034.00  3845.90 1276.06  596.67  451.74  412.40  402.24  401.12   243.20
w r PROJECr PENEFITS
MET                       -79Z2.29 -17962.64 -13272.48 -5647.72 1385.44 6473.58 P159.45 8398.37 P123.11 91Y4.44 10226.10
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__
/I  lieludes on-farm investment (credit) vnd a 2 N Costs of IrrtYatLun Sv%twm%
;b  Adjusted for unukillaqi lIbur
/c Salarie. 0211
tWI  14.73%



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
TaSbl 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAN
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sao Desiderlo RehabilLtatlon Scheme: Incremental Economic Analysis
(in US$'000)
1"6      1?n7      1953    1919      MG9O   I99     1992    1993    1994    1995    2020
PiOJECr  ENEFIrS i.
_________________
ARkLATED INC. u rFITS  *1164.67 -1840.02  -345.41  692.21 1056.90 1267.75 1644.03 1915.39 2118.32 2203.36 2290.61
PROJECr COSTS fi
________________
CIVIL VORKS                 730.75  134S.09   740.32  530.55          -       -        -       -        -       -        -
IRRIGAT.EWIPNENT           133.00   162.00          -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
ELECTRICAL NETWORK                -    35.00         -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -
0 t U.EQUIPMEUI                   -        -   506.00        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
ACCESS ROAPS                 44.00   122.32          -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
ASRICULTURAL SERVICES         3.61         -         -    5.54        -       -    5.54        -        -       -        -
INOISEERINS STUDIES          59.80    93.20    79.00   30.20          -       -        -       -        -       -        -
LAND TITLING                      -        -         -       -
SlOTAL                      971.16  1757.60  1344.32  566.30          -       -    5.54        -        -       -        -
tECURRENT CJS15
AGRICULTURAL 3D1 EI           5.19    J1.26    11.26   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23
FARRD  ORGAIIZATIN            6.30    12.60    22.60    6.30          -       -        -       -        -       -        -
SUn OTAL                     11.49    23.H6    23.86   18.53   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23
TOTAL UASE CDSTS            982.65  17f1-46  1368.18  584.33   12.23   12.23   17-79   12.23   12.23   12.23   12.23
PNVSICAL CANTIUBENCY        125.79   228.03   175.13   74.86    1.57    1-57    2.23    1.57    1.57    1.57    1.57
--.a.a _.s_.. _as.nNr o      -W01 -..seS a. S.w.as  r-s   =.. ....a.:&:._  .SSSSSS .a0S0aS
TOIAL COSTS                1108.43  *009.49  1543.31  659.69   13.90   13.80   20.05   13.80   13.80   13.50   23.30
NEr PRoJEcr EIKFITS
NET                       -2273.10 -3349.51 -1988.72   32.52 1043.11 1253.98 1623.98 1901.5V 2104.53 2189.56 2276.81
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
*-  Irnclud.sd  on-rerm  1nn-t-ent CL-rvdiL) and OIM Ctbt oil Irrigation St-1408
-b  justed for un.kitlld ljbum
JjniuarY 21: 1996 16:2-
I"tLrnal RPtt. of RetuLn of 8iet SLteems
13                       15gzr



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Ta&le 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estrelto Rehabilitation Scheme: Incremental Economic Analysis
(in UJS$'000)
IF'6     1987      J988    1 P939    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    2020
------------__--______---------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------------------------
PROJECT BENEFITS /-
AGREGATED INC. BENEFITS   -385.49 -19H3,50 - 1653.03  745.72 1567.28 2077.64 2394.92 2833.96 3078.31 3208.32 2708.02
PROJEcr ciisrs /is
CIVIL IORKS                 1084.42  1400.61  1252.42  613.62         -        -       -        -        -       -        -
IRRIGA7.EOUIPHENI          1069.60         -         -        -                                         -        -        -
ELECTRICAI NREWORK            11.60         -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
0 £ N.E8UIPIENT                   -         -   '2Y.00        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
XCCFSS ROADS                      -  1995.94   142.74         -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
A.GRICULTURAL SERVICES         2.73     2.73         -   14.H0  110.88    5.54    2.73          -        -       -        -
INtINEERINt; STUDIES        117.00   124.00   115.00   35.00          -        -       -        -        -       -        -
LAND TITLING                      -         -    33.20   33.40   33.20         -       -        -        -       -        -
SUBTOTAL                   2285.35  3523.18  2071.35  756.82  144.08    5.54    2.73            -        -       -        -
RECURRENT COSTS
AGRICULTURAL SERYICES          7.92    19.36    19.36   1Y.3S6  31.)7   50.86   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64
FARKERS ORGANIZATION           6.30    12.60    12.60   12.60    6.30          -       -        -        -       -        -
SUBIOTAL                      14.22    31.96    31.96   31.96   38.07   50.86   46.64   46.64   46.44   46.64   46.64
TOTAL BASE COSTS           2299.57  3555.14  2103.32  ?08.78  182.15   56.41   49.37   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64
PHYSTCAL CONTINGENCT        294.35   455.06   269.22  100.96   23.31    7.22    6.32    5.Y7    5.97    5.97    5.97
__-- -_-__ .__                         --- .S - .... W-- l-- fc                            .... _*-
rOTAL COSTS                2593.92  4010.19  2372.54  989.15  205.46   63.63   55.69   52.61   52.61   52.61   52.61
NEr PRuJrtl l BNEF irs
NET                       -2979.41 -5SP93.69 -4025.57 -144.03 1362.02 2014.01 2329.23 2781.35 3025.70 3155.71 2655.41
:  Includes on-fn dm liuve-stmsit (credit) end OIN CL.,t ?J  irseatiiol, Ss-teat
ib  AJau%Lel rtur wi.I.ille-i lbur
J.ai1Idl-r 21. 19H6  1S:''F
Irde.r.a1 R.-et  uf ReLtsrn of Nlet Streams
rlS i31547



- 74 -
ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Test
Economic Rate
Economic Rate             of Return
Changes in Value of                 of Return             Rehabilitated
Parameters               New Irrigated Area              Areas
Estreito   Sao Desiderio
Most possible outcome                 15%               14%          16%
Production lagged one year            14%               13%          15%
Production lagged two years           13Z               12%          14%
Production lagged three years         12%               11%          13%
Benefits down by 20%                  13%               12%          14%
Total costs increased by 50%          11%               10%          13%
Switching Value
Opportunity Cost
of Capital
New Irrigated Area
Total costs increased by 35%                         12%
Total benefits reduced by 26%                        12%
Irrigation costs increased by 105%                   12%
Rehabilitated Area
Estreito
Total cost increased by 20%                          12%
Total benefits reduced by 16%                        12%
Irrigation costs increased by 502                    12%
Sao Desiderio
Total cost increased by 72%                          12%
Total benefits reduced by 42%                        12%
Irrigation costs increased by 116%                   12%



- 75 -
ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents Available in Project File
A.   Documents prepared by FAO/WB-CP, CODEVASF or its Consultants
1.   Report of the Northeast Irrigation Review
by FAO/WB-CP (August 1983)
2.   Identification Mission Report
by FAO/WB-CP (June 1984)
3.   Preparation Report by FAO/WB-CP (December 1984)
Volume I: Main Text and Annex 12
Volume II: Annexes 13-15
4.   Formoso A Irrigation Project - Preparation Report
by HYDROS (February 1985)
Relatorio Basico
Annexes 1-8
5.   Estreito Rehabilitation Project Preparation Report
by HYDROS (August 1984)
Relatonio Basico
Annexes 1-8
6.   Sao Desiderio Rehabilitation Project Preparation Report
by HYDROS (August 1984)
Relatorio Basico
Annexes 1-8
7.   Formoso Irrigation Project - First Phase (June 1985)
by International de Engenharia S.A.
Volume I:  Memory and Ccst Tables
Volume II: Plans
8.   Water Distribution Control and Operational Efficiency of
CODEVASF Irrigated Perimeters by IICA (Interamerican Institute
for Cooperation on Agriculture)
9.   Regional CODEVASF Directorate Organization
10.   CODEVASF Annual Report 1984



Ib  t                                          <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@01H- -M -C                                            M_ 
.1i-.ii ' ll§1i0i  1nl01xofl01nWl. ili
r-.~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typical Codcevos Regional Directorate Organization
Imwn Corutelsten  I  Lzi.Djtf                             l    °      I
.   -t
m  s           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE
I~~~~~~~~~~ Mtartt    I   I I I
Irt



PARAIBA
PIA'JI                  /
PERNAMbUCO 
SERGIPE
IClAS
(      A AEORC s^ Svs el  ARREIRAS AtA                                                    G: t . ',    I
BAHIA
PAFSMOSAA* C,                   , _
GOIAS   >
BAHIA                                                             I
k        sovl;o@BAI
K                             @  i                                    UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO
JNf                                                                    LO' D>. CtATzIRRIGA TION PROJECT
')                   OOR'TOS/LOCATION OF PROPOSED SUB-ROJECS
D F) )~ ovO-5^                                                                                            ftftys
'{ ~   ~      ~      M' CC,'                                                               - _._ .A,I bs,,,
I-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
M  NAS       GERAIS                                       r                r                -
~~~~~~~~~ \    ,                 --2 I-
/ SANTO                      YMr.
(      .          . -                        '.N           @ AA.                    /       N   7^r
ANEF IR






