Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15686
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2719-BR)
June 3, 1996
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit                                  = Real (R)'
Rate at Appraisal (Febniary 28, 1986)                = US$1/Cz$13.80
Rate at Closing (December 31, 1994)                  = US$1/R 0.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BB               Banco do Brasil
BNB              Bank of Northeast Brazil
CODEVASF          Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
COELBA           Electric Company of Bahia
DER              Department of Roads
DNOCS            National Department of Drought Works
EMATER-BA        Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of Bahia
FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FSESP            Public Health Service Foundation
GOB              Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
MARA             Ministry of Agriculture
MIR              Ministry of Regional Integration
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
PIN              National Integration Plan
PROHIDRO         Water Resource Use Program
PROVARZEA        Prograni of Irrigation of Flooding Lands
SEAIN            Federal Secretariat of International Relations
SUCAM            Superintendency of Public Health Programs
SUDENE           Superintendency of Development of the Northeast
TA               Technical Assistance
A new currency, the Real. was introduced in 1994.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE ...............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................                                        ii
Introduction .................................................. iii
Project Objectives ................................................. iii
Implementation Experience and Results .................................................            iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned ...................................... ix
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................1
Project Objectives                   1...................................................
Achievement of Project Objectives ...........1.......................................
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................5
Project Sustainability and Future Operations ...................................................6
Bank Performance .................................................7
Borrower Performance .................................................8
Key Lessons Learned ..................................................9
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION .............................................. 11
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3. Project Timetable .14
Table 4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing .18
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10.  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                     20
Table 11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 22
Table 12.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 22
Tabl         e  13.  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................            23
APPENDIX:                 Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.                         l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Upper and
Middle Sao Francisco Irigation Project (Loan 2719-BR). This loan, in the amount
of US$57 million, was approved by the Board on June 12, 1986, and signed on June
30, 1986.
2.    The Loan closed on December 31, 1994, following a one-year extension of
the Closing Date. The Bank made its last disbursement on May 11, 1995. Following
the termination of the grace period for disbursements for expenditures incurred before
the loan Closing Date, there was an undisbursed balance of $1,079,278.33. That
balance has been canceled from the loan.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Lany D. Simpson and Victor Valle of the Natuml
Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division, Department I of the Latin
America and Caribbean Region. The Borrower provided comments on the Bank's
draft ICR, and these are included in Appendix 1.
4.    Two supervision missions in Brazil, in December 1994 and January 1995,
included visits to the Sao Francisco project area, to gather data for this ICR.
Actual preparation of this ICR was carried out in Washington. The ICR is based
on material in the project file, and discussions with Bank staff who were involved
in the project.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project grew out of a
series of World Bank/FAO-CP missions that visited Brazil in 1983 and 1984 to
assist the Government of Brazil (GOB) in identifying and planning new irrigation
projects. Preparation was carried out under FAO/CP guidance by a team of local
CODEVASF experts, supported by consultants. Appraisal took place in
July 1985. The project was presented to the Board on June 12, 1986, and the
loan became effective on January 30, 1987. Project design drew on the lessons
and experiences of two earlier Sao Francisco irrigation projects -- the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR), which closed in 1983, and the Sao
Francisco II Irrigation Project (Loan 1729-BR), which closed in 1987.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objectives of this project were to improve the incomes of
about 9,200 rural families and to increase agricultural production to alleviate
regional basic food deficits and to increase the volume of cash crops available for
export. These objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategy for that
economically disadvantaged region.
3.    The project sought to meet its objectives by: (i) rehabilitating irrigation
systems in seven areas where the irrigation infrastructure had deteriorated and
where cropping intensity and yields were below acceptable levels; (ii)
constructing one new irrigation scheme; (iii) improving farm technology and
providing extension and social services in the project area; (iv) strengthening the
institutional capacity of CODEVASF,2 the executing agency for this project, to
enable it to plan, build, operate and maintain complex drainage and irrigation
2 CODEVASF is also the executing agency for the Jaiba Irrigation Project (Loan 3013-BR).
The Loan for this irrigation project, in an amount of $71 mnillion, was approved in December
1988 and became effective in August 1989.



- iv -
systems; and (v) transferring to farmers the responsibility of operating and
maintaining internal irrigation and drainage networks.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The principal objectives of this project were broadly defined and, as a
consequence, it is difficult to accurately assess the degree to which they were
either expected to be accomplished or were, in actuality, achieved. However, the
following analysis is made based upon subjective observation and evaluation.
(a)    The project objective of increasing the income level of 9200 rural
families appears to have been met based upon infonnal
observation of the living conditions, health levels and general
well-being of the citizens within the project areas. General
interviews with farmers and water users indicate a better lifestyle
is prevalent subsequent to the project. However, it is not possible
to statistically determine how much of this improvement in
lifestyle and apparent increase of income might be attributable to
the project. The provision of increased food production to
alleviate basic food deficits was accomplished through the
rehabilitation of the systems to eliminate water losses and to
provide timely delivery of irrigation water to crops during critical
periods. The agricultural extension programs and the greater
involvement of the users in the governance and operation and
maintenance of the districts and projects has greatly increased the
probable sustainability of these projects. These Districts should
be able to continue to provide water efficiently for increased food
production on a sustainable basis.
(b)    The project objective of increasing the volume of crops available
for export has been partially accomplished through the
combination of increased efficiency in water delivery,
modernization of irrigation methods, and the development of
technical capability in the farmers and the youth within the project
areas. In addition, the program for investment credit has resulted
in a sustainable revolving fund to assist small farmers in the initial
investments necessary for the development of fruit crop culture to
produce cash-generating export crops. This has assisted in the
gradual transformation of the cropping patterns from low-value
annual crops to higher-value perennial fruit crops, with an
attendant increase in the general income of the farm families
within the project.
(c)    The SAR and President's Report expected implementation to be
difficult, because CODEVASF had limited experience in
rehabilitation activities -- a major component of this project -- and
a weak managerial structure. Project design tried to compensate



- v -
for these weaknesses by including a technical assistance
component to strengthen CODEVASF's project management and
institutional capacity, and foster closer collaboration between
CODEVASF and Water User Districts. The capacitation effort
with CODEVASF was generally successful and is now being
reflected in the ability of that agency to implement presently
ongoing projects. The agency did experience problems with
implementation of rehabilitation of existing works and, as a result,
some works were totally replaced when susceptible to repair with
attendant higher costs. The effort to transfer greater responsibility
to the user organizations for the operation and maintenance of the
projects and the implementation of cost recovery and water use
charges to enhance sustainable O&M was very successful. The
success of this effort has resulted in a high degree of sustainability
in both the rehabilitated projects and in the new project. The
water users are actively participating in the management and the
budgeting for the O&M of the projects and the result has been
excellent. Where rehabilitation was not completed as a part of the
project, it is being pursued by the user districts on a full cost
recovery basis with costs being paid by the users. The users and
their elected Boards of Directors are now setting user charges,
preparing budgets for O&M and establishing operational policies
for the districts with active participation of the users.
(d)   These accomplishments notwithstanding, the overall evaluation of
the project is unsatisfactory. The main reasons for this outcome
are the high cost of the new irrigation scheme over the original
estimates, the failure of the borrower to continue to provide
counterpart funding during the latter stages of the implementation,
the failure of the Bank to provide adequate supervision during this
same period, and the failure to complete the rehabilitation
component. These factors caused deficiencies in the overall
project implementation that need to be recognized and prevented
in future projects of this type. This evaluation is reflected in Table
1 of Part II. While the preparation of the project was satisfactory
and the end result is sustainable, the implementation was deficient
on the part of the borrower and the Bank. This was offset to
some degree by the success of the transfer of responsibility to the
user organizations as the stakeholders became involved to help
assure the sustainability of the systems and the accomplishment of
the primary objectives of the project.
5.    The initial pace of implementation and disbursements was brisk3 and early
disbursements exceeded the Bank's standard disbursement profile for this type of
project. However, from mid-1992 onward, implementation slowed down
More than 92% of project funds were disbursed between June 1987 and end-December 1991.



- vi -
considerably, primarily because of the lack of counterpart funds. The Bank made
no disbursements between December 1991 and December 1994. Implementation
performance on the part of the borrower in the latter stages of the project was
deficient and disbursement was delayed. In certain instances, legitimate project
costs were not submitted for disbursement because of administrative breakdowns
on the part of the executing agency. Costs for the new irrigation scheme greatly
exceeded estimates made at the time of appraisal. This appears to be largely
attributable to poor estimates and incomplete project design at the outset.
6.    The project consisted of the following components as defined in Schedule
1 of the Loan Agreement:
Part A. Rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes located in the States
of Bahia and Minas Gerais, namely the Sao Desiderio/Barreiras Sul, the
Esteito, the Formosinho, the Ceraima, the Curaca, the Manicoba, and the
Gorituba Projects.
Part B. The construction of the Formoso A Irrigation Scheme located in
the State of Bahia.
Part C. The construction and improvement of social infrastructure
including schools, health posts, and social service centers within the
above projects, construction of 1500 farm houses, and the development
of a program for the control and prevention of water borne diseases in the
project areas.
Part D. Agricultural extension and technical assistance to farm families in
the project areas.
Part E. Technical Assistance and Training for CODEVASF in the areas
of technical, operational and managerial skills.
Part F. The provision of medium and long-term credit for financing of
on-farm investments.
7.    The project's overall performance and development impact were
unsatisfactory. The implementation for the components of the project was
unsatisfactory. The project did not reach key appraisal targets during the period
of non-disbursement. General discussion of the performance for each component
is as follows:
Part A -- the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes -- Appraisal
targets for the net irrigated area were largely met, but many of the civil
works improvements remain unfinished. Most of the small farmers
targeted by the project have begun to switch from pure subsistence
agriculture to producing fruit and other cash crops to the degree
originally anticipated in most of the project targets. Much of the
rehabilitation work is being continued by CODEVASF and the users



- vii -
utilizing a combination of counterpart funds and water user charges
collected by the districts.
Part B, the physical execution of the Formoso A Irrigation Scheme., has
been satisfactory. However, the costs greatly exceeded the originally
estimated cost of this program. This appears to be attributed to poor
estimates in the original project design and the unstable financial and
political environment during project implementation which caused
frequent interruptions in project construction with attendant increases in
costs. In addition, the irrigation distribution network for this component
remained to be completed following loan closure using counterpart
funding. This work is ongoing at present. As a part of this component,
staffing levels in the Formoso Irrigation District were developed to a
satisfactory level in line with appraisal targets. The establishment and
training of the User District has been very satisfactory. It is anticipated
that this District will also provide operation and maintenance services for
an ongoing Bank-financed project. This adjacent project, the Formoso H
Irrigation Scheme, is presently under development as a part of the
Northeast Irrigation I Project (Loan 3170-BR). The Formoso H
component will benefit greatly from the experience and capacity building
that was accomplished as a part of the work under the Upper and Middle
Sao Francisco Irrigation Project (Loan 2719-BR). This combined
operation and maintenance will reduce redundancy and increase the
economic efficiency of the operation and maintenance of both
components. The operation and maintenance of the completed portions of
the Formoso A component have been transferred to the User District, and
sustainable rate and tariff structures have been established and
implemented by the Board of Directors of that District.
Part C, the upgrading of the deficient social infrastructure of the project
areas, has been only moderately satisfactory. This effort still remains
unfinished. Farmer housing was largely accomplished through the
provision of construction materials, with actual construction being the
responsibility of the farmers. The result has been a lack of basic
construction standards and a rather haphazard implementation. Social
centers containing education and health facilities were constructed within
the projects and are moderately successful. This component appears to
have received only moderate emphasis and can only be termed as
marginally satisfactory.
Part D -- Agricultural Extension and Technical Assistance to farm
families in the project areas -- This component was implemented in a
satisfactory manner within the Formoso A Irrigation Scheme and to a
lesser degree within the existing project areas. Much of the small farmer
training and technical assistance under this project was concentrated
within the new project area. In particular, the "Projeto Amanha", a
vocational training program for the youth of the project area, was
developed as a part of the extension and technical assistance component



- Vlll -
of the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Project. This vocational training
effort will be continued and will be expanded under the ongoing
Northeast Irrigation I Project. This vocational training effort is providing
excellent benefits to the youth of the project area through the creation of
job skills and the introduction of new farming and irrigation techniques.
The program is self-sustaining through revenues that are being derived by
the school through the sale of crop products and manufactured goods
developed by the students. This program has developed into a replicable
model that is now being implemented as a part of the technical assistance
program associated with the Northeast Irrigation I Project located in
Bahia and in Ceara.
Part E. An increasing percentage of the cropping in the irrigation
schemes involved in the project include fruticulture and high-value crops.
This project also included an innovative technical assistance and credit
assistance program to assist the small farmers in the establishment of plots
of fruit crops with advanced irrigation systems and culture practices. The
investment funds were advanced from a revolving fund administered by
the Banco Nordeste, a commercial bank, for the development of small
fruit culture plots. The small farmers that participate in the program
agree to implement the plots under the supervision of technical experts
provided by the User District and to allow the plots to be visited by other
farmers as demonstration plots for a period of three years. After a grace
period to allow crop maturation, the farmers begin repaying the cost of
the investment to the revolving fund. This provides a sustainable fund to
be used to continue this program to benefit additional small farmers
within the project area. This replicable model is being considered by
CODEVASF for use in additional projects including those being
constructed as a part of the Northeast Irrigation I Project (Loan-3 170
BR). Interviews with both the District Management and with the farmers
involved produced a positive and enthusiastic response to the pilot
program. The District indicated that repayment of these obligations has
not been a problem because of the increased revenues generated by the
high-value crop production. The fact that this program was developed in
a successful manner during a period of high inflation is of interest and
probably deserves a more in-depth analysis to derive useable experience
for future projects of this type.
8.    Where progress was less than satisfactory, the lack of performance was
partly due to circumstances created by the changing Federal Administrations and
financial/economic conditions within the GOB which placed less priority on this
sector and the completion of this project. This led to chronic delays in
counterpart funding during the latter stages of the project. The project's
performance was strongly affected by economic instability and hyper-inflation.
The overall responsibility for the project's performance rested with CODEVASF
and its line organizations. The project-funded technical assistance for institution
building and technical support to that agency were able to induce better quality in



- ix -
project management and improve the technical competence of CODEVASF's
staff. This has had the peripheral effect of improving that agency's ability to
manage and develop other Bank-financed projects, such as the Jaiba Project and
the Northeast Irrigation I Project. However, intra-agency coordination and
financial management were deficient, to the point that, on a number of occasions,
CODEVASF was unable to successfully obtain reimbursement for eligible
4
expenses.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
9.    The project should be sustainable in its present form and there are no
plans for a follow-up loan. The lessons learned during project implementation
focus on the need for good and realistic appraisal, for continued strong
supervision and technical assistance subsequent to loan effectiveness, and for
strong borrower commitment regardless of changing administrations. These
lessons are summarized as follows:
(a)    Appraisal and the early stages of implementation did not pay
enough attention to GOB's commitment to the project and its
objectives. The fact that GOB suspended the flow of counterpart
funds was a clear signal of waning support for the project, and
should have been perceived as such. At this point, the Bank
should have reached a clear understanding with the GOB with
regard to its priorities, and should have either obtained a firm
commitment for counterpart funding or should have canceled the
remainder of the loan without further extensions.
(b)    At appraisal, a project financing plan should carefully evaluate the
Government's ability -- and willingness -- to meet counterpart
funding requirements. Foreign-exchange commitments to be
borne by the government should also be assessed at appraisal,
especially if there is macroeconomic instability and the domestic
currency is weak and depreciating fast; hyper-inflation and macro-
economic instability can undermine even well-designed projects.
(c)    The ability of executing agencies to carry out complex engineering
works and involve beneficiaries in the execution of sub-projects at
the local level should be evaluated at appraisal and monitored
during implementation. In particular, collaborative arrangements
between all agencies involved and their political will to strive
together towards identified goals should be worked out at
CODEVASF has argued that this was the fault of its regional offices which often failed to
prepare or submit adequate statements of expenses and other documents necessary to make
withdrawal applications to the Bank. This was the case, for instance, in 1992, for eligible
expenses for Component A civil works, for which CODEVASF did not seek reimbursement
from the Bank.



- x -
appraisal. The implementing agency should be carefully trained in
Bank procurement procedures and in the requisites for submitting
and processing disbursements in a timely manner. On the Bank's
part, a consistent set of criteria should be adhered to throughout
implementation. With regard to this project, the Bank's
procurement and disbursement policies changed a number of times
as well as the acceptable Bank standard documents. This left the
executing agency shooting at a moving target and left both the
various Bank Task Managers and the Borrower in confusion in
frequent instances.
(d)   When rehabilitation work is contemplated, experienced specialists
in this area should be used. Design engineers frequently do not
have the necessary experience with maintenance problems and
rehabilitation, and, consequently, they resort to complete
reconstruction when it is not needed. As a part of this project,
particularly in the Gorituba rehabilitation, complete reconstruction
was implemented when rehabilitation could have been
accomplished more rapidly and at lower cost. Project preparation
and implementation should utilize experts in the area of project
rehabilitation and maintenance for this task instead of design firms
with primary experience in new projects.
(e)   The provision of good irrigation systems is not sufficient to cause
an increase in crop yields, change cropping patterns, or improve
irrigation techniques. There must also be good cooperation
between the implementing agency and the user organization or
district to assist farmers with training, marketing, credit and
extension services. This must include consideration for
methodologies to circumvent cultural resistance to change in
irrigation and cropping techniques by older farmers. It should be
recognized that changes in the older generation of farmers will be
only marginally successful, and emphasis should be placed on the
evolutionary benefits obtained by training and educating the next
generation of farmers through programs involving the youth
within the project areas.
(f)   In an environment of legal, bureaucratic and institutional
weakness, technical assistance and support for institution building
are necessary conditions to improve the performance of executing
agencies. Technical assistance for institution building by
executing agencies does not suffice by itself to guarantee that
legal, bureaucratic and institutional weaknesses will be overcome
but the training of borrower staff in the area of project
administration pays dividends throughout the implementation of a
project. Collaborative arrangements among key agencies involved
in project execution and incentives which promote the willingness



- xl -
to work together towards identified goals should be agreed upon
at appraisal or during the negotiation stage.
(g)   As was the case for this project, when two or more implementing
agencies are involved, successful implementation depends greatly
on good collaborative arrangements among them. The
institutional capability of those agencies and the adequacy of the
legal and regulatory framework should be analyzed at appraisal,
and needed actions to improve and rationalize both should be
programmed and made conditions of effectiveness. Moreover, if
institutional weaknesses are identified during implementation, they
need to be addressed, and measures taken to deal with them at
that time.
(h)   Confusing and contradictory signals by the Bank can undermine a
borrower's ability to execute a project efficiently. The Bank's
procurement rules and regulations, if improperly applied, can
create delays and obstacles to successful project implementation
that far exceed the savings in either costs, competition or
efficiency which are intended by such rules. This also tends to
discourage initiative and innovation on the part of the
implementing agency. Slow response by the Bank in the review of
procurement and micro-management of procurement activities by
the Bank do not enhance the development of strong capacity or
independent thinking by the borrower. More effort should be
spent on training the implementing agency in good procurement
practices at the onset of loan effectiveness. This would obviate
the need for micro'management on the part of the Bank and allow
more concentration on the provision of technical assistance during
project implementation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.    The Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project had two related
objectives: to reduce rural poverty by improving the income of about 9,200 rural
families, and to expand agricultural production to alleviate regional basic food
deficits and increase volumes of cash crops available for export. These objectives
were consistent with the Bank's and GOB's development strategy for the
economically disadvantaged Northeast.
2.    To meet its objectives, the project aimed to: (i) increase the economic
return of past investments in seven areas where the irrigation infrastructure had
already been built, but where cropping intensity and yields remained below
acceptable levels; (ii) develop a new irrigation scheme on public land; (iii)
improve farmers' access to technology and provide agricultural extension and
social services in the project area; (iv) strengthen CODEVASF's capacity to plan,
build, operate and maintain complex drainage and irrigation systems; and (v)
delegate to farmers most of the responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of irrigation and drainage networks internal to the project.
Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    Although the project's objectives And structure were well-suited to the
region's economic and climatic problems, the SAR and the President's Report
expected that CODEVASF's limited experience in rehabilitation activities -- a
major component of this project -- and weak managerial structure, would make
implementation difficult. The project sought to overcome these handicaps by
financing technical assistance to improve project management and institutional
capacity, and strengthen collaborative arrangements between CODEVASF and
the line agencies involved in the project. This proved to be successful and has
also resulted in benefits from this improved capacity, for the management by this
agency of several other major Bank projects.
4.    The initial pace of project execution and disbursement was brisk; more
than 92% of project funds were disbursed between June 1887 and end-1991, and



the rate of disbursement exceeded the standard disbursement profile. Thereafter,
implementation slowed down considerably and disbursement ceased because
GOB did not make counterpart funds available. Consequently, the Bank made
no disbursements on the project between December 30, 1991 and December 31,
1994. This problem was not confined to just this project, however. During this
period of hyper-inflation and economic instability, counterpart funding for most
Bank projects dried up.
5.    The project's overall performance was unsatisfactory and it failed to reach
some appraisal targets. In Part A, the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
schemes, a large percentage of the net irrigable area target was met. However, a
part of the planned rehabilitation works could not be completed during the loan
period and is being competed with counterpart funding. Under Part B, the new
construction component (Formoso A) was essentially completed with the
exception of a portion of the distribution systems, which are being completed
during 1995/96 using counterpart funding. However, the cost of implementation
of this scheme far exceeded the original estimates. The Irrigation District for this
component has been formed, and has accepted the operation and maintenance
responsibilities for the completed works. It has established a rate and tariff
structure which reflects the actual costs of operating and maintaining the system
as well as recovering the K-1 or capital recovery portion of the project cost as
prescribed by Brazilian Law. The staffing levels of the District, both in numbers
and in level of competence, generally surpass appraisal targets, and about 80% of
the planned civil works have been completed and the lots under the project have
been allocated.. Within Part D, training activities under the Formoso A
component have been excellent, with the implementation of a vocational training
program for the youth of the project area. This method of introducing new
irrigation techniques, new cropping methods and the cultivation of marketable
high value crops and fruit culture was seized upon as a way to overcome the
resistance of the older small farmers to new techniques and crops. This program,
called the "Projeto Amanha," will provide education and training to the next
generation of farmers in the project area and has been enthusiastically accepted
by the community. The program is expected to be self-sustaining through the
production of fruit crops on the land that was allocated to the program. This
program will continue and will be expanded as a part of the Formoso H Project,
and is expected to serve as a model for use in other irrigation projects.
6.    Because of the failure to fully complete all components, the project's
development impact has been less than was projected at appraisal. The project
has fallen short of its economic objectives, although the environmental and social
objectives have largely been met. Many of the small farmers targeted by the
project have been able to move from pure subsistence agriculture to producing
fruit crops, partly for export. Farm income continues to increase as can be
observed by the increase in life style and housing quality of the small farmers.
There has also been noticeable improvement in the quality and supply of
education, health care and community centers in the project areas.



7.    The rehabilitation component included the rehabilitation of seven
irrigation schemes, six in the State of Bahia and one in the State of Minas Gerais.
This effort included the relining of canals, repair and rehabilitation of pumping
stations, improvement and cleaning of drainage systems, and the construction of
regulation storage and control structures to improve irrigation efficiency.
Approximately 80% of this work was completed, and the general quality of the
work was good. This work has greatly decreased water loss due to canal
seepage, and has improved the efficiency of water use through improved water
management and control of irrigation timing. The installation of modern
irrigation technology such as sprinkler systems, micro-sprinklers and drip
irrigation systems has also greatly increased the efficiency of irrigation and
increased the crop production within these areas. The advent of these new
irrigation technologies has also been accompanied by a gradual increase in the
cultivation of perennial fruit crops and high value annual crops such as melons
and vegetable crops. The overall impact of the rehabilitation has been to increase
the efficiency of water use, to foster the transfer to high value crops, to increase
the income of the small farmers within the project areas and to increase operation
and maintenance sustainability. The training programs have greatly increased the
capacity of the User Districts and, at the same time, have increased the awareness
and the participation of the user in the management of the facilities and the
Districts. The user Districts have formed active Boards of Directors and financial
oversight committees, both elected by the users. The Boards have selected
professional managers who are responsible for the staffing of the Districts, the
operation and maintenance programs and the formulation of budgets and rate and
tariff recommendations. The responsibility of operation and maintenance of all
but the major bulk water facilities such as dams and reservoirs has been
transferred to the user agencies, and the role of CODEVASF has become largely
advisory. The user Districts have also now become involved in assisting in the
establishment of cooperatives for marketing and commercialization as well as the
provision of extension services. The degree of success of this decentralization
program varies with the District involved and the skill and aggressiveness of the
manager. However, in all instances, it represents an improvement in the
participatory management involvement of the users and the efficiency and
responsiveness of the systems to the needs of the users. This has been
accompanied by a decrease in the influence and involvement of the federal
agency, CODEVASF, in the day to day operation and maintenance of the
projects. While the full rehabilitation of the projects was not completed, the
capacity created within the Districts and the rate and tariff structures now in
place appear to be providing the capability and the momentum within the
Districts to complete the work without further assistance.
8.    With regard to the new irrigation scheme, about 85% of the Formoso A
civil works had been completed by the time of loan closure. The primary
pumping plant was completed and was operating to deliver water to the
distribution systems that were complete at that time. Procurement of the pipes
and equipment for the remainder of the distribution systems was underway. The
installation of the remainder of these systems is being completed during 1995/96
using counterpart funding. The pressurization stations have been completed and



- 4 -
are being put into operation as land is cleared and the distribution systems are
completed. The allotment of all lands has been completed and these lands are
being planted. Large farm lots are under development by the allottees and the
technical agronomists are in place and providing demonstration plots for
extension programs and technical assistance to small farmers. All roads have
been completed and have been surfaced with gravel. Small farmers are in place
and, while initially they were planting subsistence crops, there has been a gradual
shift to higher-value crops and fruits. The lag time between planting and
maturation of these crops mandates a gradual process for the adoption of
perennial crops due to the limited capital available to small farmers in the initial
stages.
9.    The installation of community centers and health clinics has been
completed in a marginally satisfactory manner, and the youth training component
has succeeded in a superlative manner. Extension services to the small farmers
has proceeded only moderately well and the acceptance of this service by older
small farmers has been less than enthusiastic. This result led to an increased
emphasis on the youth training program in order to create a knowledgeable base
of farmers for the next generation within the project and to an attempt to achieve
a transfer of technology to the older farmers through the youth. Marketing of
farm production has been a problem, and has led to a reliance on intermediaries
or truck merchants for the sale of products. This reduces revenue as farmers are
vulnerable to such buyers. A centralized marketing scheme is being designed as a
part of the Formoso H component of the Northeast Irrigation I Project (Loan
3170-BR), which will serve both the Formoso A scheme under this Project and
the Formoso H scheme under the ongoing Northeast Irrigation I Project. This
should continue to address this problem with professional assistance. Future
design of all projects of this type should include a concentrated effort for the
marketing of the products from the project.
10.   The formation of the User District for this Project has succeeded well.
The management of the District is professional and well-equipped to develop the
District into an efficient unit. The District is now responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the project, and has established a system of rates and tariffs
to operate and maintain the project in a sustainable manner. The District is
governed by a Board of Directors elected by the users, and also uses a financial
oversight board of independently elected members. The effectiveness of this
dual-level management structure may be questionable, and could create some
conflicts. However, it was set up by the users as a system of checks and balances
and promotes greater confidence among the users concerning the integrity of the
Board. Consequently, it has value in the initial stages, even though it may later
be changed by the users. In any event, it is of the users creation and it must be
allowed to evolve into a management structure of their choice.
11.   The creation of a training center has principally involved two areas. First,
the training facility under the youth training component, including the Projeto
Amanha, has been established using the dormitory facilities left by the
construction contractor. The capacity of the facility is greater than anticipated



- 5 -
during project appraisal because of the wealth of facilities left by the contractor.
While 50 ha were originally proposed to be set aside, 100 ha were actually
assigned in an attempt to make the youth training program self-sustaining. At
present, this facility has been designed, cleared, and is being prepared for
planting. The youth facility presently has 60 students who are making school
furniture and equipment in the school shops and sawmill and are raising sufficient
food crops for the use of the students. Horticulture efforts are in place and both
male and female students are participating. The school has a sewing center
producing clothing and uniforms for the students and a cooking center where
students are being trained in cafeteria-style cooking skills. Equipment repair
skills are beginning to be taught and repair services offered to the project
farmers. This will also assist in the sustainability of the school. Excess furniture
manufactured in the carpentry and machine shops is being sold locally to provide
funding for the school. Repair to farm equipment from the project area is serving
both as a training vehicle and to raise revenue to support the school
12.   The construction headquarters for the Formoso A Scheme is also being
used for the Formoso H scheme (Northeast Irrigation I Project). Subsequent to
the completion of the Formoso H scheme, the shops, cafeteria facilities, health
facilities and offices left by the contractor will be turned over to the District for
use with the training center and as a center for project maintenance and offices.
13    The second training component involves the training of operation and
maintenance personnel for the District. This is being done in the Bom Jesus da
Lapa Center of CODEVASF as originally proposed in the project design. This is
proceeding well and will continue as the District trains personnel to take over the
responsibilities of the Formoso H Project. It is anticipated that the same District
will operate and maintain both the Formoso A and Formoso H schemes so that
efficiency in both scale and expertise can be obtained. This will require two
separate systems of rates and tariffs for each district, since the variable costs and
energy costs will differ between districts. However, this will result in
considerable savings in equipment, personnel and overhead. This hands-on
training program within the facilities of the regional CODEVASF centers has
provided both practical and academic training in the maintenance of mechanical
equipment, canals, pipelines and other hydraulic structures and equipment. The
results of this training program should contribute to the auto-sustainability of the
irrigation schemes involved.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   The problems during implementation were largely due to circumstances at
the Federal Government level. Foremost among these is the fact that GOB's
support for this project gradually waned as national development priorities no
longer emphasized irrigation. This lack of support resulted in chronic delays in
counterpart funding during the latter stages of the project. Other exogenous
factors have also affected the project's performance. There was economic
instability and hyper-inflation during much of the project's implementation, and a



- 6 -
severe and prolonged drought which hampered improvement in crop yields and
changes in cropping patterns.
15.   However, much of the responsibility for the project's implementation
problems rests with CODEVASF. Despite the presence of project-funded
technical assistance, the quality of project management and technical competence
at CODEVASF, and inter-agency coordination, remained inadequate. Financial
management was also deficient and, on several occasions, CODEVASF did not
request reimbursement for eligible expenses. CODEVASF explained that this
was the fault of its regional offices which often failed to prepare or submit
adequate statements of expenses and other documents necessary to make
withdrawal applications to the Bank. One such instance was in 1992, when
CODEVASF did not seek reimbursement from the Bank for eligible expenses for
Component A, civil works. In addition, a large disbursement application was not
submitted within the grace period following loan closure and was, thus, ineligible
for Bank financing.
16.   Considerable problems also resulted from delays in the processing of
disbursement requests by the Treasury, after these were submitted by
CODEVASF. Any source of delay in requesting reimbursement from the Bank
can be damaging for borrowers, especially in conditions of severe inflation. This
has plagued several Bank projects in Brazil. The reason is that the Bank's
Standard Loan Conditions stipulate that, if delays on requests for reimbursement
exceed the Bank's criteria, the Bank can only reimburse at the historical
exchange rates prevailing at the time the expense was incurred. If inflation is
high and the domestic currency is prone to rapid depreciation -- as was the case
in Brazil at the time this project was being implemented -- the Borrower incurs a
loss, as the dollar equivalent paid out by the Bank is less than that of the original
expenditure.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
17.   The project is sustainable and there are no plans for a follow-up
operation. The decentralization of control to the Water Districts in both the
rehabilitated projects and in the new Formoso A project has implemented user
participation in the administration, operation and maintenance of the facilities and
has enhanced the incentive for both preventative and routine maintenance to
sustain project infrastructure. Along with the recognition by the Boards of
Directors of the Districts that rates and tariffs should reflect the true cost of
project maintenance, greater emphasis in preventive O&M is being given by the
stakeholder water users, which should result in more sustainable management of
the projects. This direct management by the users with a vested interest in the
project should prove successful if the spirited participation by both the users and
their Board in the management and budgeting activities of the District is any
indication. Actions to date have resulted in the employment of professional level
management by the User Districts and the employment and training of competent
operation and maintenance staff. Continued effort by both the User Districts and



- 7 -
CODEVASF is needed to assure continued training and to maintain a current
status of sustainable maintenance for the facilities. A systematic interchange of
technology and information between the staffs and Boards of the various
Districts was suggested by the Bank as one method of maintaining the level of
competence in this area. This is presently under consideration by CODEVASF
and the Districts, and will be recommended by the Bank as a part of other
ongoing irrigation projects within Brazil. This interchange of experience and best
practices at the peer level has been highly successful within the United States,
and should produce similar benefits within Brazil.
Bank Performance
18.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory during most stages of the
project cycle. However, Bank supervision and technical assistance waned during
the latter stages of the project due to the failure of the Bank to provide adequate
funding and personnel for this activity. It should also be noted that the Bank's
consultations with SEAIN during the annual portfolio reviews of 1993 and 1994
sent contradictory and confusing signals to CODEVASF, sufficient to interfere
with the timely implementation of the latter stages of the project (see paras. 23
and 24).
19.   The project grew out of a series of World Bank/FAO-CP missions that
visited Brazil in 1983 and 1984 to assist GOB in identifying and formulating new
irrigation projects. Preparation was done under FAO/CP guidance by a team of
local CODEVASF experts, supported by consultants. Appraisal took place in
April/May of 1986 and the loan became effective on June 30, 1987.
20.   Project design included the lessons and experiences of two earlier Sao
Francisco irrigation projects -- the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan
1153-BR), which closed in 1983, and the Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project
(Loan 1729-BR), which closed in 1987. Identification and project preparation
were straightforward, and were based on GOB's strategy to reduce poverty and
improve the living standards of small-scale farmers in the rural areas of
northeastern Brazil. However, project design and appraisal failed to take into
account the impact of changing economic conditions and government priorities in
the follow-through of the project during its latter stages.
21.   The appraisal team of experts in irrigation, economics and finance was
suited for this type of project. Borrower commitment to the project and its goals
was discussed and the necessary assurances were received from GOB Project
risks were also identified, and based on the evaluation of local implementing and
coordinating capacity, a project component for technical assistance for institution
building was included.
22.   The Bank supervised the project regularly until early 1993, but did not
supervise it again until after the loan closing date. Despite the presence of
implementation problems, budgetary restrictions prevented further supervision



- 8 -
missions. Altogether, there were 15 supervision missions. Since early 1993,
consultants have helped ensure a degree of continuity in project management and
supervision, and in assisting the various executing agencies on organizational and
institutional improvements. Bank funding for supervision, technical assistance
and follow-through on the critical latter stages of technical assistance was
deficient, evidently due to changing priorities within Bank management including
increased emphasis on lending as opposed to existing loan performance.
23.   During the 1992 annual portfolio review in Washington, the Bank and
SEAIN agreed to initiate cancellation of the undisbursed loan balance of about
US$5 million, based on the project's unsatisfactory implementation record. In
January 1993, the Bank told CODEVASF that it would not support a request to
extend the closing date. However, at CODEVASF's request, the closing date
was eventually extended by one year, to December 31, 1994.
24.   Given the Bank's willingness to postpone project closing by one year,
CODEVASF followed the appropriate course of action to complete project
execution by opening the bidding process for the completion of Component A. It
also awarded a contract for civil works in full compliance with the Bank's
procurement rules. In the meantime, during the 1994 annual portfolio review in
Brasilia, the Bank and SEAIN discussed the cancellation of the undisbursed
amount of $4.3 million. This caused the contractor to withdraw and left the
rehabilitation of several irrigation schemes only partly finished. This
indecisiveness on the part of both the Bank and the GOB was, in large part,
responsible for the failure to complete the project.
Borrower Performance
25.   GOB's performance during the preparation of the project was fully
satisfactory. GOB cooperated efficiently with the FAO/CP team during
preparation and provided all necessary logistical support during appraisal.
26.   In contrast with project preparation and appraisal, GOB's performance
during project implementation was deficient. Despite the initially rapid pace of
disbursement, GOB apparently changed its development strategy for the
Northeast after implementation had started. Insufficient priority was placed on
irrigation to ensure successful completion of the project. Because of this and
severe budgetary problems, the flow of counterpart funding stopped in early
1992. Even though CODEVASF continued to incur eligible expenditures for
civil works and other items, to all intents and purposes the physical execution of
the project's main components was stalled from the end of 1991 until the last half
of 1994. The Bank made its final disbursement on May 1, 1995.
27.   The performance of CODEVASF, the project's executing and
coordination agency, has been marginally satisfactory. CODEVASF had access
to project-funded technical assistance and consultants, and the improvement in its
management and technical efficiency reflected this. Finally, as already noted,



- 9 -
CODEVASF's financial management and reporting systems were deficient, and
this resulted in an inability to submit properly-documented requests for the
reimbursement of eligible expenditures or for replenishment of the Special
Account.
28.   The Borrower's compliance with Loan Covenants, and the quality of
audits prepared by the Government's auditors, have been generally satisfactory.
However, audit reports tended to arrive well after the due dates.
Key Lessons Learned
29.   The lessons learned during the implementation of this project are notable
for their focus on the need for good appraisal, and are as follows:
(a)   Appraisal and the early stages of implementation did not pay
enough attention to GOB's commitment to the project and its
objectives. The fact that GOB suspended the flow of counterpart
funds should have been a signal of waning support for the project.
At this time the Bank should have either reaffirmed the
commitment of the GOB or canceled the remainder of the loan.
(b)   The project financing plan should carefully evaluate the
Government's ability to meet counterpart funding requirements.
In particular, foreign-exchange commitments shouldered by the
Government at a time of macroeconomic instability and a
weakened domestic currency should be carefully assessed at
appraisal.
(c)   The ability of executing agencies to carry out complex engineering
works and involve beneficiaries in the execution of sub-projects at
the local level should be evaluated at appraisal and carefully
monitored during implementation. When rehabilitation work is
contemplated, experienced specialists in this area should be
utilized. Design engineers frequently do not have the necessary
experience with maintenance problems and rehabilitation, and,
consequently, they resort to complete reconstruction when it is
not needed. As a part of this project, particularly in the Gorituba
rehabilitation, complete reconstruction was implemented when
rehabilitation could have been accomplished more rapidly and at
lower cost.
(d)   The provision of good irrigation systems is not sufficient by itself
to cause an increase in crop yields, change cropping patterns, or
improve irrigation techniques. There must also be good
cooperation between the implementing agency and the user
organization or district to assist farmers with training, marketing,
credit and extension services.



- 10-
(e)   Technical assistance for institution building by executing agencies
does not suffice in and of itself to guarantee that legal,
bureaucratic and institutional weaknesses will be overcome.
Collaborative arrangements between key agencies involved in
project execution and incentives which promote the willingness to
work together towards identified goals, should be resolved at
appraisal.
(f)    As was the case for this project, when two or more implementing
agencies are involved, successful implementation depends greatly
on good collaborative arrangements between them. The
institutional capability of those agencies, and the adequacy of the
legal and regulatory framework, should be analyzed at appraisal,
and needed actions to improve and rationalize both should be
programmed and made conditions of effectiveness. Moreover, if
institutional weaknesses are identified during implementation, they
need to be addressed, and measures must be taken to deal with
them at that time.
(g)   The project financing plan should carefully evaluate the
Government's ability to meet counterpart funding requirements,
and macroeconomic factors and conditions must be taken into
account at preparation. In the case of this project, there were
several macroeconomic issues which, had they been addressed at
appraisal, would have facilitated implementation, notably
(i) hyper-inflation and macroeconomic instability, and (ii) GOB's
fiscal management crisis which caused counterpart funding to
evaporate during the critical final stages of the project.
(h)   The Bank's rigidity in adhering to changing and variably-
interpreted procurement rules and regulations tended, in this case,
to create delays and obstacles to successful project
implementation that far exceed the savings in either costs,
competition or efficiency which are intended by those rules.
While Bank supervision was adequate during the major
disbursement periods, supervision emphasis during the most
critical period for technical assistance at the latter stages of the
project was deficient. This failure to follow through with the
implementation of innovations, largely designed by the Bank staff
during project preparation, during the periods subsequent to
infrastructure completion undermines the institutional and
technical sustainability of otherwise well-designed projects. In
this case, because of the technical training carried out by the
Federal agency during the early stages of the project and the
individual effort of a few dedicated CODEVASF staff, the project
finally resulted in the development of some innovative technical
components.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obeectives          Substantial     Partial      Negligible  Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                  F  1
Sector Policies                      LI            LI             LI            LII
Financial Objectives                LIi            Li]            LI            EZiI
Institutional Development                          LI             LI            LI
Physical Objectives                  LI                           LI            [11
Poverty Reduction                                  II]            LI            LI
Gender Issues                       FI               I            LI 
Other Social Objectives                            LI             LI [LI
Environmental Objectives                           F1            LI            [ii
Public Sector Management             LI                           LI            LI
Private Sector Management            LI            LI             LI             I3
Other                                 mI           LI            LI 



- 12 -
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
( 7/ I                               (-I El
C. Bank Performance                 Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
("I)              (1)                (/)
Identification                        FI 7                                   L
Preparation Assistance                  g                E&1 K
Appraisal                             7                   C                F
Supervision                                                                 E i F
D. Borrower Performance             Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(")               (1)                (')
Preparation                           F                     I                [
Implementation                                           LIi Lnim
Covenant Compliance                                      F71                 g
Operation (if applicable)                               LIII
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly                                              Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(V)              (V)              (V)              (V)



- 13 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Project Title/                 Purpose                  Year                     Status
Loan No.                                            Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Alto Turi Land       To settle some 5,200 families and    1972      Closed 1980. Project achieved central
Settlement Project   assist them to raise cattle and rice           objectives but was less successful in the
(Ln. 853-BR)          for the market in addition to                 areas of environmental protection,
subsistence crops for the family.             community organization and
strengthening of cooperatives.
2. Lower                 To rehabilitate existing irrigation  1975     Closed 1983. Despite implementation
Sao Francisco Polders  projects that had deteriorated due to        delays due to design changes and social
Project              age and lack of maintenance.                   tension in the area, beneficiaries' net
(Ln. 1153-BR)                                                       incomes increased beyond original
estimates, and small farmers were
capable of moving successfully from
subsistence to commercial agriculture.
3. Sao Francisco 11      To raise agricultural production and  1979    Closed 1987.
Irrigation Project   farm incomes of some 2,700 farm
(Ln. 1729-BR)         families below the absolute poverty
level in the lower Sao Francisco
River valley.
Following Operations
1. Itaparica Resettlement  To resettle some 8,100 families   1987      Ongoing.
and Irrigation Project   displaced by the flooding of the
(Ln. 2883-BR)         reservoir of the Itaparica
Hydropower Project on the Sao
Francisco River, maintaining and
improving the displaced
population's living standards.
2. Irrigation Subsector    To develop private irrigation in the  1988  Ongoing.
Project              highlands, decentralize planning
(Ln. 2950-BR)         and execution of investments and
prepare policies and an
organizational framework for
continued expansion.
3. Jaiba Irrigation Project  To increase agricultural production  1988  Ongoing.
(Ln. 3013-BR)         and rural employment opportunities
in the Northeast, and to promote
institutional development for
further expansion of the irrigated
subsector.
4. Northeast Irrigation I   To increase agricultural production  1990  Ongoing.
Project               in the drought-prone area of the
(Ln. 3170-BR)         Northeast, through the development
of irrigation, promoting increased
farmer involvement and improving
public policy performance.



- 14 -
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    Planned Date          Revised Date            Actual Date
Identification                                                          October/November 1983
Preparation                                                             August 1984
Appraisal                 June 1985                                     July 17, 1985
Negotiations (end)                                                      March 17, 1986
Board presentation        March 18, 1986                                June 12, 1986
Loan Signing                                                            June 30, 1986
Loan Effectiveness        September 30, 1986                            January 30, 1987
Project Completion        June 30, 1993                                 December 31, 1994
Loan Closing              December 30, 1993    December 31, 1994        December 31, 1994
Last Disbursement                                                       May 11, 1995
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year t'       Appraisal Estimate          Actual              Actual as % of
Estimate
19872/                     4.7                     3.1                  66.0
1988                      13.3                    7.3                   54.9
1989                      28.5                   42.5                  149.1
1990                      40.9                   51.4                  125.7
1991                      49.6                   52.4                  105.6
1992                      53.9                   52.7                   97.8
1993                      55.6                   52.7                   94.8
1994                      57.0                   52.7                   92.5
1995                      --                     55.9 3/                98.0
1/ June 30
2/ Includes US$2.5 million for establishment of Special Account.
3/ Through May H, 1995.
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans



- 15 -
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Inplementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR           Units        Estimated         Actual l/
I. Formoso A Project
A. Beneficiaries
Small Farmers                              no.          1,466              600
Entrepreneurs                              no.             58                0
Cooperatives                               no.              0                0
B. Formoso Irrigation District
Staff                                      no.             16               20
General Manager                            no.              1                 1
High Level                                 no.              1                2
Administrative Personnel                   no.              --              19
Field Assistant                            no.             --                9
C. Irrigation Works
1. Land Clearing                          ha.           6,597 2'         3,958
2. Equipped Area                           ha.          8,684 3'         4,100
3. Canals/pipes                           km.
Main Canal                                           26.3             24
Secondary canals                                     42.1             30
Tertiary canals                                      .5.8              --
Quaternary canals                                     2.4              --
Abduction pipes                                       2.4               2.4
Sprinkler irrigation network                         57.3              6.8
On-farm buried pipes                                311.4             12.3
On-farm surface pipes                               309                0
4. Open Drains                            km.
Main drains                                          18.2              9
Secondary drains                                     30.5             15
Tertiary drains                                      32.6             15
Quatemary drains                                      6.4              4.6
5. Structures                              no.
Main pumping station                                  1                 1
Pumping stations                                     34                8
Intakes
- secondary/primary/secondary                         9                4
- secondary/tertiary                                  2                0
- tertiary/quatemary                                  2                0
On-farm valves                                       20               10
1/ Last supervision report in which indicators were included (May 26, 1993).
2/ Gross area: 7,715 ha
3/ 4,300 (small farmers) + 4,364 (entrepreneurs)



- 16 -
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Continued)
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR        Units        Estimated        Actual1'
D. Agricultural Development
1. Irrigated Areas                      ha.          8,317 2'          896 3'
2. Crops                                 ha.
Beans                                           5,226             510
Corn                                            2,613             260
Cotton                                          2,613              --
Rice                                               --             120
Others                                             --             410
E. Social Infrastructure
Houses                                   no.          1,742            203
Schools                                  no.             6               2
Health Posts                             no.             6                1
Community Centers                        no.             6                1
Storehouses                              no.             6                1
Shed                                    no.              6               2
11. Rehabilitation Subprojects
F. Net Irrigable Area
Ceraima                                  ha.           760             655
Cura9a                                   ha.         4,060           4,436
Estreito 1/III                           ha.         2,650            1,500
Formosinho                               ha.           420             393
Gorutuba                                 ha.         5,440           4,928
Manicoba                                 ha.         4,400           4,317
Sao Desideiro/Barreiras Sul              ha.         2,000            1,669
Total                                       ha.         19,730
1/ Last supervision report in which indicators were included.
2/ 4,150 ha (small farmers) + 4,167 ha (entrepreneurs)
3/ 224 (small farmers) x 4 ha.



- 17-
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
No additional data are available beyond the basic indicators shown in Table 4.
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Not applicable



- 18 -
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
.j (US$ Million)
Category                 Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs       Costs
A. New Irrigation Scheme
Formoso                  24.7        17.2       41.9      108.6       30.8      139.4
Subtotal                 24.7        17.2       41.9      108.6       30.8      139.4
B. Rehabilitation Scheme
Sao Desiderio             3.0         2.3        5.2        0.6        0.9         1.5
Estreito                  5.8         4.5       10.3        4.6        3.9        8.5
Curaca                    3.8         2.5        6.3        2.2        2.3        4.5
Manicoba                  2.2         1.7        3.9        2.9        2.2        5.1
Fonnosinho                0.6         0.4        1.0        2.5        0.3        2.8
Ceraima                   0.7         0.5        1.2        0.4        0.8        1.2
Gorotuba                  1.3         1.1        2.4        4.4        3.2        7.6
Subtotal                 17.4        13.0       30.4       17.6       13.6       31.2
C. Production Support
Extension                 5.0         1.0        6.0        2.6        0.0        2.6
Land Titling              0.8        --          0.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal                  5.8         1.0        6.8        2.6        0.0        2.6
D. Credit                     3.4        0.6        4.0        3.3         1.5        4.8
E. Social Investments         2.7         1.6       4.3        0.1         0.4        0.5
F. Institution-Building
Staff Training            1.2         1.3        2.5        0.2        1.0        1.2
Technical Assistance      2.2         2.6        4.8        0.0        8.6        8.6
Subtotal                  3.4         3.9        7.3        0.2        9.6        9.8
Total Baseline Costs         57.4        37.3      94.7       132.4       55.9      188.3
Physical Contingencies    6.5         5.1       11.6        0.0        0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies      11.2         6.1       17.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          75.1       48.5      123.6      132.4       55.9       188.3
Source: Loan Agreement, loan disbursement record and Borrower.



- 19-
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing (Continued)
B. Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Source                Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
Local    Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
Govemnment                 66.6         0.0      66.6      132.4       0.0      132.4
IBRD                        8.5        48.5      57.0        0.0      55.9       55.9
Total                      75.1        48.5     123.6      132.4      55.9      188.3
Source: Loan Agreement and Borrower.
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
This project principally involved rehabilitation works and a new project, which are still
being completed by the borrower with counterpart funding. Consequently, no definitive
cost/benefit analysis can be made at this time. For this reason a table of Economic Costs and
Benefits is not included as a part of this ICR.



- 20 -
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2719-BR)
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present        Description of Covenant              Comments
Type      Status
LOAN         3.01      5          C         Borrower shall provide credit to   In late 1988, it was agred with
(a) (i)                        farmers for farm investment    the Borrower to use funds
through participating banks.   allocated under Category 5 for
planning perennial crops under
a credit-in-kind system. No
formal version needed.
3.01 (a)  4, 5       CP        Borrower to cause CODEVASF,   Complied with except that
(ii) (iii)                    through Project Agreement       counterpart funding was
(iv)                           provisions, to perform its     inadequate for the rehabilitation
obligations.                   subprojects and affected
CODEVASF's ability to
perfonn obligations.
3.02     5           C         Procurement will be carried out in  Complied with.
accordance with the procurement
schedule to the Project
Agreement.
4.01      1          CD        Audit the Special Account each  Audit reports have been sent
fiscal year and furnish the Bank    with delays in most of project
with certified copies of the audit   years.
report.
PROJECT    2.01        5, 10      C         CODEVASF to carry out project   Complied with.
(Parts A to E) with due diligence
and efficiency.
2.04 (a)  5, 10      CD        CODEVASF enters into agreements  SUCAM, DER, COELBA:
(b) (c)                        with SUCAM for Part C.5; DER for  complied with but most
Parts A.2 and B.5; COELBA for   activities not yet carried out.
Part B.4; SEDUC for Part C. I and    SEDUC, FSESP: partial
for provision of qualified teachers to  compliance. Formoso:
operate schools after 12/31/92;  Irrigation District set up end-
FSESP for Part C.2 and for      88 and FAHMA consultants
provision of qualified physicians  hired early-89 to provide TA
and other staff to operate health  to farmers. Construction
posts after 12/31/92; extension  management: complied with.
agency for provision of agricultural
extension in Formoso A project
area; construction management firm
for Part B.



- 21 -
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Present             Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type       Status
PROJECT       2.07        10           C          CODEVASF to organize farmers for  CODEVASF delegated this
(Continued)                                       purposes of O&M of the irrigation    task to cooperatives and
schemes.                            newly-established irrigation
districts.
2.08       10           C          CODEVASF to employ specialized    Complied with.
staff in the agricultural development
unit of its first, second and third
Directorates and create a
rehabilitation unit with a resident
engineer in the Second Regional
Directorate.
2.09       10           C          CODEVASF to sell improved lands   Complied with.
to beneficiaries under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.10       10           C          CODEVASF to carry out the            Settlement is ongoing.
settlement program in accordance
with criteria and procedures
approved by CODEVASF in 1983.
4.01       1            C          CODEVASF to have its accounts       Audit reports for FY 95
audited and furnish audit reports to   received. FY 96 audit report
the Bank no later than 4 months     under preparation.
after the end of a FY.
4.02       2            CD         CODEVASF to maintain and collect  Current water charge
water charges to achieve full cost  collections are slow. Delayed
recovery by January 1992.           implementation of works has
postponed full cost recovery
of capital investment. Full
cost recovery of
administration, operation and
maintenance has been
implemented.
Covenant Tyoe:                                                   Status:
I.  Accounts/Audit                                           C          = covenant complied with
2.  Financial performnance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  CD      = complied with after delay
3.  Flow and utilization of Project funds                    CP         = complied with partially
4.  Counterpart funding                                      NC           not complied with
5.  Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency  NYD     not yet due
6.  Environmental covenants                                  SOON         compliance expected in reasonably short time
7.  Involuntary resettlement
8.  Indigenous people
9.  Monitoring, review and reporting
10.  Inplementation
11.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13.  Other



- 22 -
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no significant failures to comply with Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Staff Weeks                   US$ ('000)
Through Appraisal                        75.6                        156.7
Appraisal - Board                         5.1                         12.0
Board - Effectiveness                     1.4                          3.2
Supervision                              91.1                        236.9
Completion                                7.1                         10.5
Total                       180.3                        419.3
Source: MIS



- 23 -
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Month/  Number   Days   Specialized            Performance Rating             Types of
Project      Year        of       in     staff skills   Implementation  Development   problems-
Cycle                persons   field  represented!         Status        Objectives
Through         6/85        4        21    Irr, Agr, Eco         --             --
Appraisal
Through         11/86       1        4          Irr              2               2            M, P
Effectiveness
Supervision     5/87        1        8          Irr              2               2            M, P
5/88       2        13         Irr              2               2              F
11/88      2        19       Irr, Fin           2               2             M, F
5/89       1        6          Irr              2               2              F
10/89       1        7         Irr              2               3             M, F
4/90       1        12         Irr              3               3              F
10/90      2        11         Inr              3               3              F
3/91       1        18         Inr              3               3              F
6/91       2        16       Irr, Agr           3               3              F
10/91       1        11        Inr              3               3              F
11/92       1       18         Inr              3               3              F
4/93       1        16         Irr              3               3              F
8/94       4        11         Ir               S               S              --
5/95       1        12         Ir               S               S              --
1/     Irr = Irrigation Engineer; Eco = Economist; Fin = Financial Specialist; Agr = Agriculturalitst
2/      1 = Minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems; S = Satisfactory
3/     F = Financial; M = Management; P = Procurement






Appendix 1
MINISTERJO DO NEIO AMBIE:E, DOS RECIURSOS HIDRICMS E DA AHAZONIA LEGAL
COPANHIA BE DESENVOLVINENTO DO YALE DO sAO FR NCISCO - COOEVASF
APkNDICE r
Este ApEndice refere-se ao ' Relat6rio de Conclusio da Implemntaio
do Projeto de rigagio do Alto e Mdio Sbo Prancisco           ao Acordoe Empr-
mo 2719-BR do 3anco Mundial.
I - Antcdets
1- Em cumpnmento ks prescn;aes do Acordo de Empro  cinma citado, a CODEVASF
apres=ou ao BIRD relarrios semest=ais some o andanme   das obras e scrvitos previstos.
2- Como d norma do BIRD, seu RelaZdrio Final de Avalia;o 6 sobmeido ao execum  do
Acordo de I2prEsximo, o qual aprcia a  ata e elabora un Ap iez wovUnd suas api-
nioes e sugesz5s, que fard pane oficial do relat6rio do Rco.
A elaboraio desse Ap8ndice foi solicitada l CODEVASF em3 30 de novembro do conrente
ano, 1995, via fax, pclo Mr. Lary D. Simpson, Cansultor d, G<ereciamento d- Recmscs
Hricos, da Divisio de Recursos Naturals, Meio Ambient e  brez  Rural.
n - Sumirio
1- 0 financiamCro, pelo BIRD, da Frucicultua IzTigada.
2- 0 financia.mneno do Pojewo Amanhb, polo BID.          0
3-A CoopG;o do BIRD ao Programa de Desavolvim | dos Recursas Hunanos da
CODEVASF.
4- Apoio do Governo Fedeml para a exao  do Acordo de EmpoE =o n0 2719-BR.
5- Principais problemas na implementagio do segmeno Reabili    dos Projetos do Irigaaio.
6- 0 enceramento do Acordo de Emprdsdmo n0 2719-BR e  c nm   do saldo de USS
1.079.278,33.
7- Diferenqas de perce=umas nos segmetos fnaciados podo BI  cmD, am funfo da brigem da
conatada, a sabe: consultora, ibticane do equipamentos e ctsutora das obras.
8- Imposiao pelo Banco do Conv&mio co-n a FAO, como condigo de efedvidade do Acordo
de Empr6stmo.
9- A Missao da CODEVASF c a CooperA;go Tdcnicz e F   n    [e a mn!acinOa
G/
ll~



Tm! - comeutios c Sigcstug
M-1 -0 Onsianm-nto, pelo BRD, da FrUuctur kng.&
a) Merece calorosos enc6mios a ampla percepZo e apow       BIRD  quanto  io  lcac
ecou6nnco o social do Programa de Frunculir nos Projews de Irrigafo da CODEVASF,
especialmente no que conceme aos pequenos irngants.
b) Com reci-os finsaceos do BID, 40% e nacionais, 60%,  ai criado um Fundo Rouivo,
gendo pelo Banco do Nordest do Brasil, desdnado ao fo, pelo dsiia de equi-
vanc=a/prodm:o, pam implerbenago da fruicuha nas glebas dos pqluenos irrigantes
c) 0 efaito d   szaIo do Progrma pode ser comn;woado rnedisa  a ampliaio da trea
explorada com  hculra, coMn uiliAo de recursos prdprs ou proveniemt  de oumrs
fontes.
Atravds do Programa foram finnciados 860,17 ha de culUu* paees, bencfic ;udo 1002
pequenos agricultor s, o quc equivale a 37,8% dos aricui dos pe1nwos contempla-
dos no Acordo de Emprdsmo  em foco.                   [
0 ressarcimento dos recursos aplicados no Programa    sido realiz   normalmenc, sa-
do o indice de  dipncia basan  reduzido, estando ab    de 20%, o que indica um
grande comproun     rdos produores cam o  Programa.
A observdncia dos prazos de ressarc     W   propiciado a reaplicao dos rcuos no
pr6prio ptzrnoco, aumenndo asirn a  rea de  cuDura   a abnngia do mon
alocado na Fwinm.
III -2- 0 Fimciamento do Projeto Amazh, pclo BIRD
0 Projeto Amari , concebido pela equipe t6cica da Diretoria.deo Produ-
Yo C Opera#o da CODEVASF, Valn merecendo uin eufizsdio anOIo tcnico C financeiro
dos consultores do BIRD eM suaS viagens de inspae;io e avalia;  aO Vale do S.o F-ncisco.
Pelo Projeto AnbA, cuja impleentagio vem seCd feta coUn r=wsos
fianceiros do BIRD e nacionai , a CODEVASF pretnde, basic tCM:
A capaciiafo o arganizago dos jovens rura4 p.m qu possaz cormpr-
dor objtivamente sna realidade e consequenz=rne  ah,r de farina conscient 4ca  InicWi-
mente, nos perimetros inigacs  pos          ao longo do Vake
m- 33- A Cooperiio do BIRD ao Programa de DcscOIvMimCDZO doS R=Uros Hum-
nos da CODEVAF.
m       so F sioo pauirnftio da Compaha c  Desenvolvimento do Vale
do SiO Fmrancisco  conswi i l peos seas Recursos Humanos, como soi aconecer em qualque
empresa, mormeute na dpoca a1W  em quo o desenvolvimncto tcnico e citco r processa
corm vernginosa velocidade.
Com oexeeres resultads, ltilizaxdo-se r        fianceiros do BIRD c
nacionis, foram prporonados cursos a uivel de Phd, MifSWAo, es4ios tLnicas, viens
16cnicas aos empregados da CODEVASF.
2



LU - 4 - Apoio do Governo Federal para a execuio do tcrde oEmpr6s?imo no
2719-BR
0 Governo Fedoal, nas dtlcata de 80 e 90,1 vem prsnd    o PrograMO
do 1xriZaca, pcpa nto no que concene ao Nordeste do  rasil,            o, 
financiamentos cxwrmos e recurs ks
No liviro  Mlos k Obra, Brasil", pIamfmomi do aai Goveno Federal, k
pigina 102, cncoata-se a euratgia do Programa de Iniggagg, or transa,:
riganio:
* Priorizar a irrigaqio das pequenas e   ds propriedades no Nordeste.
h frrigar, ro ,.meiro no de govao, 30 mil hec=re, dos as, 10-
mil bectares no Nord-eve. -
rImplantar prcjetos pdblicos de irrigaq3o ao Nordest e Bnacia proje-
ms privados, pra atingir um 1,5 milblo de hectares ao final do flverno.-
A Uibeaio das co =partidas de recursos jaconas foi, as vwesS, insufi-
ciente e inwiempesva, pravocando, realicnnte, remrda temo na i niplnio dos procf;wtos.
No entanmo, hi que se cnsiderar quc nas ciadas d6cad2s os indices infla-
cionjrios oscilaram dramnaticamente, havendo meses em que a intlagio atngiu ccrca de 80%!
Nesse contoz  mao  o   inico nio se podia esperr que a e.:=I do
Acordo de Empr&stimo n 2719-BR se desse Inewdicamete.   |
L's perraIAos verflcados nMo provien de filma de voztado poa, ica para a
implementa;o do Prog,,n de aringafo, comno por egano afiarna o BIRD.      -
AfL1--u:,es, cao  a. inftglo sob cantrole, com   decia nitd=e   de-
clianne, com previso c de -ciices da ordem de 15 % para o anoo   o , 1996, a ea:-r=vuJ dos
acordos de emnpr6sdmo cun o BIRD, o 3170-BR e o 3013-BR; c573-OC-BR e o -.Z-P5, rcs-
pecivamen, com o Banco Intenammrcano de DesenvoIvun        com o OECF do Japio. tor-
nou-se maiss met6dica e produtiva. !
Ape= de tods as dificuldades os projezos d irngaio no Sub-Mddio c
Alto S.o Francisco v&m criando empregos a custos muito mnofe do que os das grandes in-
dtstrias; v&i gerando produ;Ao   4dusaial que ji atinge os mercados dos   aos Uzdos
da Amdnca do Nort, Emropa c Japio, no que concere k ic ;ukwA vEm diminunW do   c &xo-
do das popubagdes iameioraas paa as grandes cidades onde as W1ugOes, is vezes ,paativs,
dos problemas sociais, Lhn cusms faicncciros c humanos elevadfos.
m  -5- P5i- cipais Proble-as na I       n-eugo  do Scegmi- -  Roaalaao  drs Poejtos
de Jirgaai
tse segment do Acordo de Emp I'o no 2719-BR, de mdis4udvel uim-
lidade, apresen!ou gmdfi4es di&uldas ma sua imipleentagao e |prcssivos rcsultziios positi-
vos, ccondmicos e socisis, qums sqam:
3                            -



a - As obms, quer de irrigaio quer de drenagem, sao de pequcu monm, c dispersas pelos pr-
jetos em fase de o      agrfcola.                      I
A cxenuao de rais wabalhos e Icuz c causa problanas moezanleos a produso agncola
b- A impIanaimo c/ou nwlhoria da iafta-esMtR social, no que cOnccrn  a escolILs e postos
de sadde, melhorou a qualidade de vida dos pequenos ingances.
c - A asistdnria m6anica agr6nomica prestada par o eanizaq6es privadas conuatada. pebS  Du-
trizos de Irrigaqlo, enCao criados, vem melhorando expressvamcnte a produivi:iad agnco-
la.
d- 0 acelerado avango inicial na impiazzzsn do Acordo do E4rm6srmo 2719-BR. c posteior
OsZagn3;o, ressalmda pelo BIRD, decoau notadamente dos guintes faws:
As grmdca oI,ras dc imp1nuaao do sccrnm  Fbom&so A, ab=ngcndo cca dz !).000 h
foi cxecua innvamenfle por fIima empreitoira de grande porte, em praga de trabalho
=aeme livre.                                                         '
- Os 07 projows de Teabilit , mgiosamente denritos e avaliados no 'Appraisal' clabo-
rado pela CPIFAO c BIRD, ivcram poSMeriOrIDO k celebr0o do Acordo de Emprdsd-
mo, de ser submoados, indcidamenr. a esaidos de viabilidad  ticnico-ConJftira e,dgidos
pelo BIRD, apos o que, foxam olaborados os proejs excxulivs das obras de rwitbilitago e
s6 enito iniciada a mmcugo das mesmas.                 l
Tal procedomenw reurdou enormrnente os nbalhos do rcabil] ao      
E convojem  ui relexio do BIRD sobre a matia, o quej emnquecera a ex xinc  de
seus tzcnicos e evisar futuros problemas com os muunirios.
e - Quanro ao Projeto Gorumua, cabe esclarecor que as obras  iaram dentro de m aa concep-
gao de manuzon#io corretva uadicional, ou seja, rcup       de u , juntrs e subsdii-
91o de placas, etc. Com o andandos servios veziflcou- qu essa conceO;0 12o so-
lucionaia os problemis, pois o concreto existo"oera muho pemevel e de baiL resi_t-
cia.
Em decortaia dessas observa;6es, a CODEVASF optu poW coewamr um espciaist cm
concrem de renome nacional, que em scu rolatnio, reoiendu a impemeabiliao  geral
do caval com mna camad de concreo fbroso. ASSm, tal soIuqso foi implemAnt-da com
excelente resutado.
A lentidlo de um procoswo reabilitio de canal de imio, nm     e  em franaca produ-
qro agrcoia, e facil men explicivel pois a dom;nda da * gua  regiAo de chi  tropical
ocorre durame todo o ano.                              |
Tal fazo faz com que os penodos de paralisaglo no fo-Tmrne de agua pama que a obra
scia executada, sqam curms e de freqii&xcia
No caso espccfco, es paraiisagio ocQrm em m a, 2,5 dias por seman, e vra de regra
nos finais de senza_
f - Quanto as soicikwes de ressacimento.
As deficisncia na ad in     financrm da CODEVASF, relain    a o%eaonafi-
zaqio da exccugio do Acardo de Emprasnmo BID 2719/B*, aponadas pelo Banco, em
funoio da uao solicigao, cm 1992, de dosowbolso para despqsas elegiveis pelo Acordo, j;
nAo sAo passiveis de ocorerem, nina vez quo o   sa      da conzabilidade e.da execu-
gio oramotria e amavds de siste-a de processamento do   o      gado, fac ndo a
anni'lise e elaboramo da comprovag;o de gasrs jumo ao BIRD)
Quanm ao xao       no encamih      do wAppicaon   d  esen2bolso faI do Acordo,
que chegou is dependEncia do  mco  n 18S/05/95, decurr|u, de problunas quorfogom ao
con=ro  da CODEVASF.                                   I               t
Demonsra-se a seguir, a fieyflbcia anual drs valores des   boIsdos do Acor:o de Em-
prdstimo BIRD 2719/BR, bem como os custos do Prjeto coidos na t-bela 8: r
4
a.



. . w. . o . w .       ......      ......       .*  . . .e .* Z  . . . . . .e .^^*     .> . 0 . s . v .s .e . .      ....   . . w P. ....  
ANO                                                                VALOR USS OaL
Ad 1989                                                                              47,779
Em 1990                                                                                 1,661
Em 1991                                                                                    753
Em 1992                                                                           -  333
Em 1993                                                                                      694
Em 1994                                                                                   1.117
Em 1995                                                                                   3,563
......................................................................
Tatal  -                                                                          55,920
...................................................................... ...................... ,,
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
t
1
'I
;
5~~~~~~~~~~



TAdBELA 8. CUSTOS E FINANC AME.NTO I    PROTETO
A.CUSTOS DO PROJETO 2719iR
USS M11lh6es
CATEGORIA            ESTIMAT:VA DE AVALIAVAO                      REAL
TOTAL
CUSTOS   CUSTOS               CL      CE
LOCAIS    EXT.    TOTAL
(CL)      (CE)
A. Nova Projeto Irrigagio                                           -
Formoso                     24,7       17,2    41,9   108,6   30,8  139,4
Subtotal                    24,7       17,2    41,9   108,6   30,8  139,4
B. Projeto de reabilita-
r,aof
Sao Desiderio               3,0         2,3      5,2      0,6    0,9    1,5
Estreito                    S,8         4,5    10,3       4,6    3,9    8,5
Cura.ca                     3,8         2,5      6,3      2,2    2,3    4,5
Mani;oba                    2,2         1,7      3,9      2,9    Z,Z    5,1
Formosinho                  0,6         0,4      1,0      2,5    0,3    2,8
Ceraima                     0,7         0,5      1,2      0,4    0,8    1,2
Gorutuba                    1,3         1,1      2,4      4,4    3,2    7,6
Subtotal                   17,4        13,0    30,3    17,6   13,6  -31,2
C. Apojo a Producao
ExtensIao                   5,0        1,0      6,0      2,6    0,0    2,6
Titulo Posse Terra          0,8        0,0      0,8      0,0    0,0    0,0
Subtotal                    5,8        1,0      6,8      2,6    0,0   -2,6
D. Cridito                     3,4        0,6      4,0      3,3    1,5    4,8
E. Investimentos Sociais       2,7        1,6      4,3      0,1    0,4    0,5
F. Forma;io Institucia-
nal 
Trein. de Pessoal           1,2        1,3      2,5      0,2    1,0   31,2
Assist. T6cnica             2,2        2,6      4,8      0,0    8,6   .8,6
Subtotal                    3,4        3,9      7,3      0,2    9,6   .9,8
Custos Basicos Totais         57,4       37,3    94,6   13Z,4    55,9  188,3
Contingincias Fisicas          6,5        5,1    11,6       0,0      0,0    0,0
Contigencias de Prepo         11,2        6,1    17,3       0,0      0,0    0,0
CUSTO TOTAL DO PROjETO  j 75,1   j   48,5  1123,5 1 1132,4 1 5391 .,
6



B. FINANCIAMENTO DO PR
FONTEJ                                            I
GOVERNO                       66,6    0,0        66,6  132,4    0,0   132.4
BIRD                           a, 5    48,5      57,0    0,0    55,9 .55,9
TOTAL                   |  75,1 I  48,5  | 123,6   132,41 55,91 188,3
III -6-0 Encerranento do Acordo de Empresti-a 2719 BR o a Cancelamento do
Saldo de USS 1.079.278,33
q
0 Acordo em tela foi prorrogado por 4  ano, uma dnica vez.
Por uma questio de atraso de algunf dias o BIRD recusou a
ultimo uApplication", no valor de USS  1.079.278,33, quantia assa cancelada do
Emprestimo.
Na louvavel auto-critica faita pelc BIRD am seu desempenho
neste Empr6stimo, vale a pena fazer a Banco uma refliaxio sobre duas atttudes
suas paradoxalmente contradit6rias, quals sejam:        I
a-A lucida e admirivel atitude do BIRD apoiando fi Ianceiramente a Programa
Amanhi, de capacitacao da juventude ruraT, quer pelo 2719-BR, guar pelo
3170-BR, em Formoso H e Barreiras.
b-0 ultimo "Application' recusado destinava-se a res arcir despesas de proje-
tos de reabilitargio, cujos beneficiarios sic as pequenos irrigantes, de
cujas familias pobres originam os adolescentes do Pjrojeto Amanhi. '
0 BIRD criou recentemente uma importante Divisao de Recursos Niturais e
Pobreza Rural, onde seu 'staffg, na parte de Admi istracao e Finangas, de-
veria ser submetido a cursos rapidos de sociologl  e economia rural, al,6m
de visitas aos projetos sobre os quais opinam, para vivenciar uwa realidada
que les e desconhecida e assim, agir coerentea_nti cor a grande aissiao do
BIRD, que e prouover o 'Desenvolvimnto e a Recon tru#ao" em ambito mundi-
al.
III-7-Diferen;as de Percentuais nos SegYetos FinanciaxLbs pelo BIRD, e Funi@ da
Orige da Entidade Contratada, a saber: Construtora,Fabricante deo quipen-
tos e Construtora das Obras
Nas licita;aes e seleq;es internacoliais, se a licitante van-
cedora for estrangeira, o BIRD financia 100% do va or do trabalho, seja no
caso de consultoria, de aquisi;Ao de equlpamentos ou  xecusio de obras.
No entanto, se a licitante ou se ecionada vencodora for
nacional, o percentual financiado  oscila em torno de 40%.
7



Esse procedimento nio e justo; 6 pr fundamente discriminato-
rio, ji que o Brasil 6 membro do BIRD e este e um b nco de Desenvolvimento 0
nic um banco comercial.                                                ;
Esta materia merece uma profunda rellexio por parte do Board
of Directors do BIRD, que poderi so valer das experiencias do Banco InteraFe-
ricano de Desenvolvimento - BID a do Overseas Economlc Cooperation Fund-OECF,
do Japio, entidades que financiam igualmente, quer A vencedora da ;licitacio
seja estrangeira ou nac1onal.
III -8-ImposiCio pelo Banco do Convuilo cxm a FAD, coo condligo de efetivida-
de do Acordo de Emprestimo.
0 BIRD imp6s, como condigio de efetividade do Acordo de Em-
prestimo, que a CODEVASF firmasse um conven1o coM 4L FAO. Embora a referido
convenio apresentasse alguns resultados favorivais (4estaca-se a participaqio
dos consultores que trabalharam nos perimetros de rlabilitacio) grandes pro-
blemas occrreram entre a CODEVASF e a Coordenaoaa pqr parte da FAQ;. dificul-
tando entre outros, o controls de custos e metas pretendidas. 0 BIRD tomou
conhecimento dessas dificuldades. Sugestio: A CODEVASF selecionar, a seu cri-
tirio, como tem feito nos outros acordos o pessoal e i consultoria necessirla.
III -9-A Missio da CODEYASF e a Coopera;io T cnica e Financeira Inte. nacional
A Companhia de Desenvolvimento do V le do Sba Frarcisco tem
como missio: planejar, executar, promover a articular agaes para o dasenvolvi-
mnento sustentivel da Bacia do Sic Francisco, com enfase no aproveitamento dos
recursos de igua e solo.
Para o cumprimento dessa Missiao, a cooperacao tkcnica e fi-
nanceira lnternacional, desde a decada de 1960, ves  se revelando de grande
valor.
A CODEVASF se orgulha, bem como suas antecessoras, SUVALE e
Comissbo do Vale do Siao Francisco,  dessa tradigio d4 abertura cultLral, tec-
nol6gica e financeira no seu relacionamento com variop paises e enticades mul-
tilaterais e bilaterais.
O BIRD, como o BID e o OECF do Jap#o, vim prestancio valiosa
assistincia a esta Empresa, que ora passa por um processo de redefirt'gaes.
Finalizando, sugere-se quo o desempepho da CODEVASF; nm sm-
pre a melhor, na execu;1o de sua programacao t6cnic: e financeira,' deva ser
avaliado pelas entidades internacionais dentro do con exto de reformas por que
vem passando o Brasil.                                  |
8



I



I



I



iMAGING
Report No:        156U6
Type: ICR



